ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24715	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you don't mind, we can begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm opening a session. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I thank and realize that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Branko Bosnjak. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE REHABILITATION LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. As you know, the time for discussion of parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9, 17 MPs – 20 minutes 24 seconds, MP group for European Serbia – six minutes, MPs who belong to no member of the parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, three independent MPs – five minutes each. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Zoran Stojkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on rehabilitation. The reasons for the adoption of this law are extremely significant. We had a past that wasn't easy. In that past, we had a lot of problems and failures. A large number of people, which, for ideological reasons and above all, was deprived of life, property, and other rights that belonged to him. That time has passed, if we want to create a democratic and orderly state, and this should be our future Serbia, a liberal state, in which we will have a normal functioning of the democratic system, where there will be no digging of trenches, where there will be no enemies just because of the fact that they have different opinions, ideological views and similar things. I think it's necessary to pass this law. The law itself is short, but clear enough. If we want to have a normal path and development, it's necessary to bring it. I don't know if we can finally work this out, but it's supposed to not go out of date. On the other hand, it is possible for the process to be initiated not only by heirs, but by all legal ones, and we will accept the amendment, and by natural persons. I say - physical and legal faces. What is most important is that a brief court procedure will be conducted, where a proposal with certain evidence can be put in place, that the proceedings be carried out and the decision taken. A dissatisfied party will have the right to appeal to a higher court. Pros will work, the Belgrade District Court is scheduled, as a real and local court for making these decisions. This is arranged for the reason why it is necessary to collect, concentrate all proceedings at one court, to create valid practice and to make valid decisions. I must say, this law will also apply to those cases where there were no decisions, and people are deprived of life or their rights have been taken away. It will also refer to those procedures where only the form is respected, but not the essence. What is most important will be valid until the day of entry into force of this law. So, all those unfortunate cases that have happened will be able, after this law has been passed, to regulate and finally get that right opportunity for us to become a liberal democratic society. It's that obligation we have to these citizens, and to future generations. I say we bury the axes once and for all, close the trenches and start operating like all the neat societies. People who eventually have different views and different visions of things are not enemies, but political opponents only. For this reason, if we really want a lasting reconciliation, the security of a single Serbia that can move forward, it is necessary to bring these laws forward by correcting those mistakes that have occurred in the past. I want to say that the date has been taken since 1941, meaning since the day of the Second World War, that is, the attack on this country, because then there has been a system collapse, given certain elements that have afterwards appeared – totalitarian. It is normal for this law to be passed and all cases related to such situations can be regulated by this law and citizens to get satisfaction for what has been done to them. Normally, one who has lost his life can never return well, but one can get satisfaction. I would like to point out that there was a problem with whether such proposals would be able to place heirs or any interested person as we have put into law. We're on the point that due to the passing of time, a large number of people today may not have any heirs. You have extremely well-known people who have left a mark on this people's history, and today they have no heirs, as is the case with professor. Free Jovanovic. Consciousness only means disfellowshipping the possibility of such people being rehabilitated. For these reasons, we have introduced this provision that every interested person, both physically and institution, and I mean academy, college, etc. They can make a motion to rehabilitate. If you share my opinion as Serbia needs us, as we live in it, and I repeat, as people who can disagree in many ways, who can have different views or ideological approaches to things, but not as enemies, but only as political opponents. I think it's necessary that we pass this law and move on to some normal future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24717	I would like to thank Minister Stojkovic, the legislator. Do the officials of the committees want a word? They don't want to. Do the representatives of the parliamentary clubs want a word? Yeah. The word is wanted by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24718	I must begin with a few sentences to remove any doubt about the MPs, the minister and the public of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party will not support such a bill because it resorted to poor formulation, inaccurate, foolish, and we fear if such a bill is adopted, i.e. enter into force, that it will be inapplicable and that it will allow the same concept to be interpreted in several ways. We assume that if this operation is going to be called the rehabilitation of political convicts and indictees, then it must be done with the precise text of the law from which the court will come out. It is not enough to say – political prisoners, political convicts are rehabilitated, and there is no court of value. What is taken as a criterion? Here will virtually turn out to be the only criterion – Siniša Okec. He's, as a criterion, totally unacceptable to me. As soon as he welcomes Carla del Ponte, then you know that there are no values or that they are bad. If he's to instruct the District Court judges, since they'll be in charge of applying this law, then we can get different judgments on some of the criminal acts from our past. How bad is this bill? Here's what's written in the first article. Not to read everything, it covers the period from 6 April 1941 to the day of entry into force of this law. Do you, Minister, acknowledge that what is done with Karic is a political persecution, do you acknowledge that, since you have been in power, political persecution is being carried out? Political persecution has been under way since 5 October. She was “Sabela” – 13,000 arrested. I don't know if there's 40 charges, no. Does this mean that this is how you want to condemn the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic who were pursuing political persecution? If you want to do that then write it down, you have to write it a little differently. Is it another criterion for rehabilitation to allow heirs to recover confiscated property from some period of the 1950s? If that is your goal, then your Parivodić has already done so with several regulations, in a coalition with the Democratic Party that has accepted his confirmation of the registration of the seized property. You see, the first article does not show a court of value, which is based on a bill like this. Likely, as a promoter, you know that there is in our positive right, specifically in Criminal Law – the Institute of Rehabilitation, but he is something else, not what you suggest. There is a so-called legal and judicial rehabilitation. This is where we go to the political rehabilitation, I agree with you. Both Slobodan Jovanovic and Dr Laza Kostic and many prominent experts should rehabilitate. But this law will not rehabilitate them, because it all depends on the will of the judge who is acting in the case, on his court of law. In the meantime, we have gone through some socio-economic formations, from state socialism through self-government socialism to, allegedly, some multi-party democracy, then to the first democratic government, to the first democratic president, and all the first democratically linked to poverty, poverty and human rights abuse, etc. And now tell me what criteria to apply the judge? He's not here. Here, I'll take some examples. You remember that one of the big Democrats used to ride poppies. Yes, it is, laugh. He's a big Democrats. Here, I will now give you the exact name – Desimir Tosic, a member of the Committee on Immunity Affairs in the Federal Assembly, when Vojislav Seselj was removed for three months he was in prison. Was that political persecution? Yes, it was political persecution. And who was doing this persecution? Desimir Tosic. Another example, this Zarko Jokanovic, which does not appear now, he sat here at night, removing immunity from people who had to go to prison in Gjilan. Will you rehabilitate Vojislav Seselj? You will, then you must force these people into prison, and they are now the biggest Democrats in this country and most of all tell us about democracy. That court of record doesn't have him here. I agree that where there are no contemporaries, where it is a great past, where both the accused and the persecutor are retired, there is some justice to be corrected. Goloocanes, it's an internal conflict within the Communist Party, with the help of Ustashas who changed their uniform and beatinals there on the naked island. It's already a great past, a distant past. If your Parivodić wishes to be rehabilitated to complete the process for which he entered the government, which is the restitution of the property, then don't do it by this law, because you insult rehabilitated persons because it is unsaid. Next, something like this started to work, so he stopped. He stopped the moment he saw that after his stay at the place of the minister of justice he probably needed another law on rehabilitation, to rehabilitate the people he was persecuting. And so we'll keep going in circles. As the government changes, a new law on rehabilitation is passed, etc. In America, they handled it nicely, as soon as the new president takes that oath he goes to the White House, signs an order to amnest the previous president from prosecution. He can't even get a minute of silence with us. Bill Clinton amnested Bush because he had his friend Bill Clinton amnested to return to America after 10 years, because he was tax evasion in Switzerland, etc., so he asked a moral question whether Bush could amnesty Bill Clinton for something that was obviously a crime. If we are to go constantly in that vicious circle, then we should publicly say that all our actions are political procedures. You wrote here that Karic can rightly count that he is politically persecuted, he says – until the day of entry into force of this law. The government changes, the Democrats come, the President of the District Court changes, a new judge comes in and amnests Karic, rehabilitates him, wasn't guilty. Why? Well, there's no court of law. Now let me tell you what's gonna be the problem. Officially, for the past maybe 17 or 18 years, and if there was any political persecution, essentially, it was always covered by some provision of some law. So Vojislav Seselj in Gjilan was to blame for climbing the bench and telling citizens there would be no rally after the police banned him. After that sentence, the police killed everyone there, beat everyone up, and he was in jail for three months. Do you think your Sinisha Okic will say it's political persecution? No, he'll say, according to the Law of Public Assembly, you found yourself in a place where a public gathering was banned. Is political persecution when MPs were taken out of here, when Tomislav Nikolic was strangled with a tie when he was dragged by a police officer? Is political persecution when Tomislav Nikolic could not enter this assembly for Natasha Micic's sake? Is it political persecution when a book is banned? Is political persecution an mounted court case against Vojislav Seselj, a court case against a former government official? I don't know if there's any of the socialists and radicals who haven't received criminal charges if he was a minister. They all got criminal charges. And day and day, it's down to whether or not it's in the stage of the investigation, if it's some kind of pre-criminal procedure. You'll be hearing those objects with mahogany. Why? Judges grab their heads, cops grab their heads. They shouldn't have written anything in those yellow ones, and you don't care. We've inherited, we've inherited, we've inherited, we've inherited, we've We didn't rehabilitate the faces that were arrested two years ago in the Sabre action. 13,000 people have been arrested. To add up everything from 1948 to 2003, so many people were not arrested in one action or in all these organized actions. Is it possible that democracy knocks on the door through prison, putting people in jail? There doesn't even have to be any doubt. You know how they agreed at the government's session. Did you read those stenograms? Batic says, "We're gonna arrest this guy," and Chad says, "If you arrest that guy, then we're gonna arrest that guy of yours." You know for a fact that the action was designed to replace one mafia with another mafia, it has nothing to do with this. The conflict between the two mafias. It's all turned into a democratic performance. Apparently, it was against the root of democracy, the first time democracy in Serbia since 5 October. Never mind. Now, tell me, how are these valuable courts going to apply the judge who's supposed to comply with this law? That's impossible. Because it's impossible and it's so arbitrary, then it grows to its opposite, it almost becomes an embarrassment to the face that needs to be rehabilitated. For all these persecutions, a member of another regulation has always found himself in a relationship. There were few procedures where there was open political persecution. Since 1950 and some years until 1990 and some years we have had 6-10 political trials, where people are persecuted for violating their right to freedom of thought, expression of attitudes, etc. Mahoma was prosecuted for books, etc. What happened to us since October 5th? Since 5 October, those who do not recognise the state have been amnesty twice, and who knows how many times pardoned, will come to Petar Jojic, so he will tell you what kind of pardons you've given since 5 October and who, during our Nalic, while there was a counselor, what's been planted on someone to sign. Terrorists, villains, it's all pardoned, later something and amnesty, given general amnesty, three times. We're going to rehab now. While they were from the gss, they went to the lustration. And now there's an item for lustration and there's a willingness for everyone to break that law, because it's pointless. Think about what you're doing in legal traffic and what you want to bring now. The basic objection of this law is that it is inapplicable and everything depends on the will of the judge in question, on his value attitude. In particular, whether he gives primate provisions on the basis of which a person has been punished, as regards the Law on Public Order and Peace, on the gathering of citizens or on the very essence and background for which some procedure has been conducted. If he's got that width, and that's essentially primate over form, then the face will be rehabilitated. But if he says -- you see, there's been a lot of talk and evidence about the circumstances of the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Gathering, etc. The face is not subject to rehabilitation. That's what he'll decide. The court of record is known to everyone. The judge for any decision can be called upon and in the same situation one man can be rehabilitated, and the other one does not have to be rehabilitated, and the judge has done nothing wrong in the application of this law. If that's the law, then we don't need it. That's why the SRS submitted the amendments, to distract us. I didn't mean to be specific about the members. When we talk about members, then we will describe the lack of each specific member. You've made a mistake here even with the constitutional basis. It's not other questions. This is about human rights and this is the point first -- protection of human rights. So the constitutional basis for something like this exists, but this is a typical law, you have to say. This rehabilitation is not the one covered by the Criminal Procedure Act, it is a little more related to the abolition of the legal consequences of convictions and the erasure of convictions. This is, above all, a political reflection of society, simply, that it wants to clear up and admit that there have been some political persecutions in the past and to restore the dignity of those persons and officially. In public, they have already regained their dignity, become celebrities. Both Slobodan Jovanovic and Laza Kostic, and our Vojislav Seselj also became a celebrity. Everyone knows what's going on against him is political persecution. I can ask you a question about what we're going to do with those who insisted that he go to The Hague – Covic, Svilanovic, Djindjic? It is known that, on their request, Carla del Ponte concluded something, those from law school – the GG association put together, gave a frame and started. What are we doing? Is that political persecution? Yes, it is. We're not in the mood to condemn political persecution here right now, and we're not going to condemn the one who comes from the side? Yesterday you weren't here, the Assembly wouldn't put the agenda on a resolution that should condemn political persecution. What political persecution? The one who directly penetrates the right to the lives of the people in The Hague. Some of them were grinning here, they find it interesting, they say, "Better be Vojislav Seselj there, we'll be in power for longer." That's their reason. They're, like, very smart and appraisal of what the interests of the state are. It is a great interest of the state to have Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. How can they not be ashamed? How can such people even enter the congregation? Where do they have this breadth to think about national interests, about the state? What do we do with those who forced the district attorney in 2001 to drop the criminal prosecution of Tony Blair, Bill Clinton and the others? What do we do with them? Are you saying that the charges against NATO leaders were political persecution? Just to remind you, the first thing they started to do was bomb us, so half the bombings brought charges against Slobodan Milosevic. If they'd filed charges first, then bombed us, someone might have figured it out, but no. When you delivered it, you added Croatia and Bosnia to him as signatories of the Dayton Agreement. Why didn't the other signatories go after them? Everyone who signed the Dayton Agreement is guilty. Well, you see how that goes with the courts. Whoever warmly receives Natasa Kandic, Karl del Ponte, and walks through the court, shows her how they are equipped, let me tell you right away, if you mean to show your willingness to judge those acts, you are wrong. They push much more for the court in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Sarajevo court. There they call upon one of our Serbs, who escaped the poor man, burned down his house, to go to Sarajevo to settle his pension right, and they arrest him and put him in jail, and four and a few thousand people are charged. Who knows how long there are in Croatia under these secret indictments. Who are you courting? Whom you can look into the eyes and tell him he's going to The Hague voluntarily, it's a national interest. You're forcing him to the slaughterhouse right now. You're talking rehabilitation and you're making some too broad regulations that are inapplicable absolutely. If you know that there are judges in the Belgrade District Court who will write everything and everything, as you had Prosecutor Dusan Simic, so you have prosecutor Branko Stamenkovic, doing everything without me telling you about Vukcevic. You're insulting the state. If you pass a law like this, you'll hurt both those faces and their families who deserve rehabilitation for political persecution. I also have to tell you that you're giving false hope to some fuckers who think they're making use of their former confiscation. That's why we're not voting for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24719	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24720	This law does not apply to Bill Clinton or the others who were prosecuted on these charges, because it is about the persons who had a residence on this territory. So it doesn't apply to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24721	The word is Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24722	Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to have a dilemma as to why this law is written and to whom it applies, it refers to Draž Mihailovic, Milan Nedic, Ljotic and others, which is why you bring it. Don't talk about political rehabilitation of victims of a regime. After all, you who propose that law have many years of me, you lived in that system. Some of you were members of the Communist Party, perhaps even longer than I am, so it is impossible to speak now about the non-democratic system and that, as it says in an explanation that is extremely politically untasteful, extremely incorrect, and it is said that the adoption of the Rehabilitation Law is the obligation of democratic Serbia. Many people were killed in another way, punished without trial or innocently convicted solely for so-called. Class membership. What are you talking about? Don't wrap it up in some oblands. This is the second point of that debate we had when we talked about Chetniks and Partisans. Be honest and say so. It's your pre-election promise, and I understand that all the political parties sitting here, other than the SPS, are basically for such a political option. I don't mind, and we don't mind. Sometimes it's important to be on your side and even if you're alone. I must tell you that the debate on Partisans and Chetniks has contributed greatly to the reputation of the SPS, and those who were in the Partisans and Partisan families and in the elections vote for the Chetnic political parties should think carefully when the elections come. When elections come, everyone pretends to be non-partisan and extra-party organisations, and when the law comes on the agenda, they ask where the SPS MPs are. To be clear, we have nothing against rehabilitating political convicts. The idea that whoever is convicted for political and ideological reasons or not convicted, and who was killed, someone rightly taken away, arrested, the idea that these people are rehabilitating – is absolutely acceptable to us and it is not disputed, but it is very controversial, nationally irresponsible, historically unwarranted to rehabilitate people through this law who co-operated with occupiers from 1941 to 1945. Will Milan Nedic be rehabilitated? Milan Nedic was president of the Serbian government during the German occupation, was convicted, killed. Are they going to rehabilitate him? Someone who accepts to be Prime Minister under the conditions of the occupied state and you will rehabilitate, of course you will, because many of you would become so today. So, when Zoran Djindjic and his party go around the world during the bombing of Serbia and talk about the need to continue, they still hold on to the bombing of Serbia, of course those people would accept being Prime Ministers or Ministers and in conditions occupied by Serbia. That's why this law is completely normal and it's normal to expect you to propose it. This is about saying first that this is the obligation of democratic Serbia. Has Serbia been undemocratic since 6 April 1941? Is Serbia undemocratic all the time after October 5th? Was Serbia democratic before 6 April 1941 and where it was found just 6 April 1941, because the legal system was then broken. What kind of excuse is that? Where's the rehabilitation for the victims of the sixth-year dictatorship? Where is the rehabilitation for those communists who have been released outside the law, arrested and killed? Do you know that this law of yours allows you to rehabilitate members of the Quislin units, the Muslim militia in Sandzak who have killed tens of thousands of Serbs and who will turn out to be victims of political persecution? Do you know that you can rehabilitate Pavelic's Ustashas in Srem, Slankamen, Golubins? Do you know you can rehabilitate the Honvedovci in Backo? What about the Germans who left this country after 1945? Were they victims of political persecution? Work against your country and your people. You're doing something that's not a problem anywhere in Europe. You want to practically annul all the court decisions that were made after 1945. So there won't be any confusion. Anyone convicted for political reasons or anyone without a court ruling has certain consequences should be rehabilitated and it is not disputed, but I ask Albianic to allow it to work here. So, not to be a dilemma, we know that this law is passed because of those people who need to be rehabilitated because of the events that were in World War II. You know how? The big question is, if you have occupied Belgrade and in Belgrade you have a Gestapo that makes a statement and says – we ask Serbs not to report their fellow citizens anymore, because we do not have so many people to follow. If you know that there are people hanged in the terraces, and under the hanged people drinking coffee and listening to music in downtown Belgrade in 1941, 1942, if you have a situation where people around Serbia are killing you, and in Belgrade, we're having ballrooms for Germans, and that's what our people are doing, if we're playing theatre plays where our actors are involved for the Germans, is it about someone being the victim of political persecution? You have completely mixed criteria, I know you're passing this law for what I said, not for correcting some major historical injustices. First of all, it's absolutely incorrect, you use the formulation to switch from communism to liberal society. You know what? It's a formulation that hasn't been used long ago on the political scene in the world, because the world has long crossed that phase of transition from communism to liberalism. There is currently no liberalism in the world as a form of state, of arrangement. It exists as an ideology, but a liberal international, liberalism, doesn't exist as a system. It was debated 200 years ago in the world. I guess that's what you're doing here in an explanation. You have a situation, what about the latest political persecutions? Minister, since you explained that the obligation of democratic Serbia to bring this is Serbia a democratic country? Is Serbia democratic from October 5th to this day, when during the "Sabbe" action, more victims were arrested, even without a court ruling, I don't know what you call it, it wasn't detention, it was detention, I don't know if it was deprived of freedom? What was it called where you were held for 80 days without a court ruling? I don't know what you call it. More people were there than on the Gol Island, more people were arrested than at Pinochet. Your president's almost been arrested. You're accused of being the criminal association that killed Djindjic, the instigators. Is that true? We were all accused of killing for our needs and interests, Red Berets and others. A lot of people have been arrested. What do we do now? Are these the victims of political persecution? Do they have the right to rehab or do you only think about what happened from 1941 to 1945? I think this is another attempt at falsifying history. We spoke several times, when there was a debate about Chetniks and Partisans, whoever fought the occupiers, on our side, it was right, whether he was wearing a five-pointer, a gambling or anything, just whether he was fighting the occupiers? Whoever is politically convicted should be rehabilitated. What if you're rehabilitating Milan Nedic now? In Smederev there was an idea, I don't know where Shormaz was, there was an idea in the past government that the square in Smederev was called the square of Dimitri Ljotic. They thought it was some communist, and they didn't realize it was the one who killed the Austrian Crown Prince. So, anyway, we're gonna have a legal galatias. You have a situation with the District Court, where it's almost impossible for him to be able to do all that. There'll be thousands of demands. When you've decided to amnesty, you don't declare general amnesty and rehabilitation for anyone who's been convicted of anything since 1945. To shut it down, so start from the beginning. We'll have a situation so the law doesn't define who can apply for rehabilitation. Any interested person can do it. You know what that is? It would make sense if it could be a family. This approach is absolutely politically motivated here. So, the SPS supports the proposal to rehabilitate all those who are politically convicted and harassed, because we were also victims of such a regime, from 2000 to 2003. But here's the problem, most likely through this law, some who worked with the occupier will be rehabilitated. That's why the law is passed. He's not being brought, what now, you're worried about the victims on the naked island, and most of you sitting here thinks they should all go to the naked island, and those who sent them and those who are there, because they're communists. On the other hand, what's the matter, Minister, with those directors who were changed in Tito's day, you know better than I do, because you're older. Fight against techno-anarho-liberalism and techno-management, etc. What about them? You know what I'm just afraid of? That the same people who judged people on a political basis will now be rehabilitated politically. That's the worst of it. It means that those who have received an iron cross from Hitler will now have the right to be rehabilitated. Pavle Djurisic received an iron cross from Hitler. I don't know if we should discuss it when someone got an iron cross from Hitler, whether Hitler was right or wrong. What, Hitler was mistaken, so he gave him an iron cross, because he was misinformed from here, he wasn't actually fighting the Partisans, he was killing the Germans, but those Germans gave him an iron cross. That's the subject, Minister, you're passing the law for it, admit it here. You are passing the law for rehabilitating Nedic, Draž Mihailovic, Djurisic and others. Why do you bring the law? Whom do you rehabilitate, peasants and cults? Peasants and cults aren't victims at all. Confiscation was made against those who co-operated with the occupier. That country was returned to the law we passed, what you were talking about, because we passed that law. All right, not all of it, but you don't get it back, because six years you've been in power, do something. Give me something, don't just talk, you promised people you'd give them back the property that was nationalized and confiscated. You promised, why didn't you give them back, why lie to your electoral body, why don't you give them back? It's easy to talk, but you should work. Is it possible to do that? So now you're taking care of the peasants, the towers, taking care of those members of the civil class who were unfairly accused after 1945. And we worry, and we agree, they need to be rehabilitated, but this law is not passed because of it. This law is passed because of what I just said. This law is passed to continue the talk of partisans and Chetniks, to verify the right of some to co-operate with the occupier. Not everyone who was convicted after 1945 was a victim of politics. So they were all victims. Everyone -- no. Please, how did it happen then that the Partisans won that war, when all of your people were so strong, as it happened, here are the Chetnic parties all, therefore, there's no dilemma. It's the only SPS on the side, but that was 50 years ago, so we understand each other. I don't want to live in that time of Partisan and Chetnik. I'm interested, people, who today are on the side of those who will occupy us, or those who are on the side of our people. You are now talking about, Kostunica advocates that our country should decide on its own, that it will not sign the capitulation, therefore, that we will have such an approach around Kosovo, and we are now legalising that Milan Nedic, who was the president of the Serbian government at the time of Hitler, during occupied Serbia, can be rehabilitated. So Žanka Stokic played, too, yes, and O.K. It may not be her fault to be sentenced to death, but you understand, if you have a situation where you're being killed, and some are entertaining those who kill you, right to tell you, I don't know how you'd be acting right now. Now, take all those who will vote for this law, all who are here, here with my left hand I will show, if you were in a position to, God forbid, come to such problems as it was then, you would act the same, and worse. Therefore, as you know, what Vukic says - there is no time, we have taken over the leadership of the Assembly, since others do not work, therefore, thank you. I just want to draw attention to the fact that this law will bring once more divisions within our peoples, divisions that were more than 50 years ago, and I think it's absolutely excessive. This law will reopen all these issues and it will not be resolved. This law may rehabilitate some who co-operated with the occupier. This law, as well as the Law on Amnesty, will set a bad example for the future, that anything is possible in this country, everything is allowed and that everything will be forgiven. You can forgive them all you want, but we can't forget them, because a people who forget their history will be condemned to survive it again. Unfortunately, we were doomed to survive again and through all these same things we went through at a time when this country and this people were the hardest. If you arrest Goran Svilanovic now, because he calls for the destruction of the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and you can arrest him, but you won't, because he says Kosovo should be independent. Who can say that, who can say that in this country? In every country in the world, he'd be in jail tomorrow. If you arrest him, is he a victim of political persecution? Is it a victim of political persecution, I ask you again, are the victims of political persecution those Albanians whom you have amnested during the joint DOS government, that you may not be rehabilitating them now? Mr. Minister, these are our citizens, they had a residence in Serbia's territory. So you can rehabilitate them. Take what is called Brovina, she is the victim of political persecution for Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. Ramush Haradinaj is a victim of political persecution. Besides, you said it yourself, you took off those warrants, not you, but the last government, let them out of prison and everything. It's all a victim of political persecution. So if you wanted to rehabilitate someone, it would be much more correct and fairer if you moved when you had a cabinet session, so you said, this government is giving recognition and rehabilitating Milan Nedic, Draž Mihailovic, Ljotic and everyone else, but this is because you will have general political chaos. You will have the return of those who cooperated with the occupier, they will use this as an opportunity to rehabilitate. Of course, that's what I said. This is just a logical continuation of the belief that it is better to cooperate with the occupier, because it will be better for our people, as they say. Because Nedic, you say, was a Serbian mother, Prime Minister at the time of Hitler. He wouldn't have waited until tomorrow morning for you to come to power. He died, God rest his soul. The better he died, because whoever cooperates with your enemy can never be rehabilitated. Mr. Albianic, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24723	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24724	Just informatively, for a speaker, MP Dacic, I know very well what liberal society is. One of the elements is that you don't call the Minister of Justice to arrest, because we fight for a society where every organ will do its job, and neither will the minister of justice not to arrest, as they say in the meetings, to say this, I will arrest yours, and he will arrest yours. You said there are no cases like this, wise society. I'll give you an example, and there are more, we can talk later. I'll take the freshest example, you know – Slovenia. The wise people say, "We will not go forward with a sack on our backs." What did they do? They made a political decision, the prosecutor allowed the case to be repeated in all cases and dropped out. They don't have this problem anymore. They have peace. They don't have that bag back, they know it was in the past of mistakes on one side and on the other. But they solved it. We want to solve it, too, and we want to move really forward, so that it works, as you say, liberal society, and I know you know it has it. The other thing is, some are already amnesty. Therefore, they are not covered by the Rehabilitation Act. It's very informative, I know you know, but you don't want to say, I'll inform you officially, if you can't say. The charges against Haradinaj and Ceku have been filed, or there is a criminal case, even according to Ceku. Therefore, this finding that you have previously stated is not true. And what Interpol's gonna do, you know we're not Interpol, we're a member, but we're not Interpol.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24725	I thank you, Minister. The word is made by Marko Krstin, an authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24726	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, was indeed an inspiring debate which, in my opinion, unfortunately, was ideologically colored. I think we should break that story with this law, but, well, we can't, even if we try to talk in some other way. Doubts that this law rehabilitates someone who killed someone, who stole something, who sent someone to a camp, I would remove it with the very text of the law. So, the court will decide whether someone was prosecuted for political or ideological reasons, or because he killed someone, mutilated, sent to the camp and took something from him. That's what the court is doing now. I don't see any reason why we suspect that the court will properly assess why anyone is being persecuted. The courts are now on trial for all crimes, so they'll judge for this. There's no doubt he won't rehabilitate whoever was convicted for killing someone, driving them to the camp, because he gave away the state's secret, signed the capitulation. So, I don't doubt that, because if I did, then I'd express my infidelity to the courts, to this country. I believe in Serbia, and that's what the law says. If we read it, in order for someone to be rehabilitated, they should be deprived of their rights for political and ideological reasons, nothing more and nothing less. That's clearly what it says. What anybody meant by that, talking about these or those historical personalities, he probably knows that. But the law says loud and clear, we've entrusted the court, who's doing it now, to do the job. And now there's a judicial rehabilitation. My colleagues talked about it. So it's about convictions over three to five years in prison if he commits a new crime within 10 years. So, nothing special and nothing special. It's an institute where courts do their job. I believe the courts will do well. If we're already talking about people, or persons who would come for application, when it comes to this law, unfortunately these people and faces, I don't think they are anymore. They'd be people of 80 or more years. They won't feel "thank you" rehab. They're gone. I think we can all agree that there have been procedures without procedures. So someone was taken by a simple road somewhere and never came back. I don't know if we think we're sharing an opinion that he should be rehabilitated. I think you would. I think we agree that there was enough of them, that they didn't do anything about it, but because of something they bothered someone, so they were taken and killed, they don't know where they were buried, they don't know where they were buried, families are forbidden to come to them in any way. So we can agree that there have indeed been different cases where someone’s rights have been severely violated. I'll list a few: one is a forced ransom, the other is the collectiveisation of nationalisation, the third is the Resolution of Informbiro and the events about it, the fourth – the reckoning with the good part of intellectuals who participated in one or another in public life, who were traitors or not, but not all were traitors; in the end, I would add national suspects, with whom they were also accounted without judgment, without solution. I'm not saying that in those situations it wasn't revenge, but I don't think we should be dealing with revenge. We should be doing the right thing here. I will quote our Constitution, since, as counterpart Krasic, I share the opinion that the proposal did not hit the constitutional basis and that the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia provides far stronger and more reliable constitutional grounds for such a law. I'm just going to mention, say, article one. The constitution: "The Republic of Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens", means that neither this citizen nor that nation, which live in it, is "based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the rule of law and social justice". So I see the basis of freedoms and rights, as a colleague, and as a rule of law. That's the basis for me. Article 14: "The life of a man is incomparable." Article 15: "Freedom of man is unhindered." I still don't want to quote. There's the basics. We really stick to our constitution that belongs to the order of modern, modern European constitutions, as it is, and contains the basis for something like this. What the promoter wrote – a procedural and legal basis, from Article 72, can be supplemented by this material and legal basis, which fills it with absolute content that allows something like this and allows something like this. Let's see who these people would apply to, and I'll use the quote from the book: "In the summer of 1945, a regulation on buying and transporting bread grains was adopted at the level of Yugoslavia in the year 1945-46". I mention this to express my respect for these victims in this way. They were victims, and no one will be able to argue with that. It won't be possible to argue from the beginning to the end. According to this Regulation, each household has been determined the amount of surplus food obligation. At first, to provide food, after the war, which is justified, and then as a means of class combating rich peasants. Then, this regulation extended the ransom. When planned quantities could not be provided by political activation, repression was applied. In Vojvodina, 8,821 peasants went through prisons. Whether it means something to you or not, but it means a lot to me. Whether it's a peasant, it means to me, and it's past 8.821. Do you think there was a solution? It wasn't. When he didn't deliver, they took the grandmother out of the house, like in a gun of barefoot, took him away, locked him in the basement, and then, who hung himself, who pulled his mustache, who cut his veins, who jumped off the balcony, if there were balconies, if there was no ground floor. That's true, and it won't be able to argue with any history written in these areas. In addition, penalties, confiscation of movable and immovable assets, complete or partial. Let me remind you, the New Vienna Glavaski family. From spoon and fork to salach, everything was taken. You know what it says in the solution: "Confiscate as rich", literally it says, not as an occupier's associate, did not cooperate with the occupier; he had many children and worked; he was taken away from it. We've been returning something, it's true, laws have been passed. However, what is returned cannot bring back what has happened. People are humiliated, hanging, losing their minds, their brains. That was terrible. The ransom time of 1945-1952 was remembered in Vojvodina as the most terrible time of robbery, lawlessness and terror. That's what contemporaries say. So it's not made up. As far as collectiveization is concerned, let's mention that, it's about thousands of people. A law on agrarian reform and colonisation since 1945 has established an agrarian maximum and collectiveisation. The collection was conducted with the help of political agitation and repressive measures by applying physical and psychological torture. In Vojvodina, a total of 40% of households were collectiveized, with 41% of the country in private ownership. What happened to the people who didn't have to deliver the grain in the quantities in which someone estimated he could do it? What happened - they arrested people, took them to camps. So there was a camp in the Decans, not to forget, in Kosovo there was a camp for peasants, who were called popular "hitres", mostly from Vojvodina, but also from Šumadija. There were four and a half to five thousand so-called. Cereals, dying there, were not allowed to visit relatives, food reception, and children's, and today there is, if there is a cemetery of grains. I think it's too much to talk about here, but we all know that it was a few dozen, among 15-25,000 people who, for ideological reasons, as members of one party, were at one point wronged by a certain decision of one or another leadership and were killed by words, jokes, because of stories. All the families failed, and this lasted from 1948 until 1952, 1953. You didn't know where those people were. No solutions have been made, but that should not be rehabilitated. So these are the people we're talking about. I don't want to replace the thesis here, if we believe that our courts will rehabilitate those who fired, killed, camped. I don't think so, our courts aren't like that, and that depends on this and that authority, probably. The justice system is something else that cherishes each other's story. As far as the text of the law is concerned, I think it's a good thing that since these people are really gone, that every interested person can initiate this procedure and that this procedure doesn't go out of date. I don't think it's a good thing that the applicant is asked, in Article 3, to file evidence of justification, because I can't imagine that the evidence will be submitted by one who hasn't received a solution, or by a person who's either convicted or not convicted, there's no solution, no decision, what proof does he have to file? There's no copy of the death certificate. There's no telling where he died when he died, so there's no evidence. That's why Article 4 is bound to provide evidence, which is good, but Article 3 is looking for something that I think is the most difficult case scenario, impossible. Furthermore, I think in this procedure it was necessary to exclude the payment of a court fee, which is quite high and which, of course, will make it impossible for some to do this job. As far as the effects of the law are concerned, I don't think they're well analysed in the bill itself, because there really aren't any. It is said, "The application of the solutions proposed in this law, according to our assessment, will not cause additional costs to the citizens." First, it's a court case, it certainly costs something, so we can't say that hiring a judicial apparatus doesn't have some amount of cost. Secondly, I don't think the effects of the law are cost-effective, the effects of the law are to strengthen the democratic principles of the rule of law, the protection of life and the health of citizens, and, in my opinion, the compensation for damages is done. It doesn't say that here in law. However, I think that lawyers – practitioners who deal with such problems – will, in practice, come to a slightly different conclusion in general, as a result that, if confiscation of property is put out of force as punishment, this property must be returned. So that's where some obligations come in. Secondly, if there are any survivors, which will be difficult to have, since it is after 60 years and more since they were told such a thing, they will have the right to compensate for immaterial damages under general regulations. So we can't say there won't be that. So, they're completely entitled to this right, because the decision will be made, they'll take legal action, and ten years after the decision comes, there will be a claim for compensation for damages. True, the immaterial damage ends with the death of whoever has the right to it, so it will be little, but we can't say it won't be. So, G17 plus will support this text of the law, to point out again, not because of the ideologies of these or those things, but because several tens of thousands of people who are most often at risk, who are most often taken away from life and health without even any paper, are brought into that situation to say -- you and these people have suffered under these conditions because there were no rights, justice and fundamental justice, and that is the essence of this law. If he's perfect, I couldn't say, since it's a really dubious text of the law. But I can say that the courts have a lot of regulations at their disposal that this congregation has made. So this is about the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code. So there are all the laws that apply in this matter, then the provisions of the Criminal Rehabilitation Act, etc. These are all the provisions that can apply to these cases. I think we can pass this law without any danger, to stress it once again, because I see that this is quite a problem and is causing a dilemma. Will the one who killed someone who maimed someone be rehabilitated, who stole something from someone? There's no way to do that, because a member of the law himself rules out. So only when it comes to persecuting a person for political and ideological reasons. I think you're quite clear on what that is. These are those who have no solution or judgment first, so there is no conviction, and secondly, those who have no such crimes on the burden. And they're those people. And because someone suspects this way, they probably have other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24727	I thank the People's MP Mark Kristin. Here you go, Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Did anyone hurt you back there?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24728	No, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to take this opportunity to chair and to be alone at the chair. I am very pleased that Mr. Krstin said that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is democratically good and that it is European. I would ask you to stop because all these years we have witnessed that trees and stones and alibis are being transferred to that constitution for all failures and failures. I want to make sure that, according to the Rules of Procedure, there are also positive examples in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24729	Mr. Dacic, as far as I know, the G17 has always said that the Constitution is European and democratic. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24730	Replica. So, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask you to conduct the session properly, there is no reason to comment on neither the G17 plus nor, these days, the president of the parliamentary group, my littleness. As far as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is clear to all and all political parties in the Serbian Parliament are, in one way or another, participants in the adoption of the highest state act. I guess it's clear to everyone that we have to do something like that in the next period. It is clear that the basic values of the modern world today, in a legislative sense, should be found in such a document, and they are not in the Constitution of Serbia. I will remind you - human and minority rights, we have them in the Constitutional Charter, but it is necessary that the state of Serbia has certain things in place, regardless of what we are signatories of certain documents we are referring to. Therefore, all political parties participate in the Constitutional Committee, in the subcommittee, where there have been certain problems, suspicions, who hold or hold back the adoption of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24731	Mr. Albianic, let me ask you, what's this about?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24732	Mr. Angelkovic, allow me to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24733	So if I haven't figured it out in two minutes, I don't think I'll be another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24734	I've got three minutes straight, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24735	You do, but if you advertise the Rules of Procedure or answer the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24736	The line is three minutes, I answered the line because the G17 plus parliamentary group was mentioned on your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24737	Positively speaking, I commended you. Mr. Albianic, nobody really hurt you. Let's just get this over with. We can make fun of ourselves, we can do anything, but no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no-one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no harm, no harm, no harm, no harm, no harm.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24738	You've commented on what the G17 plus attitude is, and now I'm putting it out because you've misread it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24739	So you're replicating me, Mr. Albianic. Come on, finish it, I finally figured out the third minute that you're replicating me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24740	So, I hope and expect from all the parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament that we will have the strength, courage, will, to bring the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia here. Of course, there are certain problems in the work of the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs, and from time to time, the president of the Assembly reported to the public and urged different people to influence co-operation and continued work on the document. If we are in favour of adopting a new constitution, this means that the existing is not democratic enough, as you wanted to claim, that it is necessary, in accordance with the modern fluids and constitutional fluids of the European Union and other countries, to bring something like that. If you want to interpret the words of a MP who has called for constitutional basis for this law, that is a very different question and I can discuss it with Mr. Christin and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24741	I thank you, Mr. Albianic. You made it in 4.5 minutes to convince us. Mr. Albianic, this is the Assembly, these are not colorful balloons, and nobody here called G17 plus, but agreed with Mr. Mark Krstin to have enough elements and that the existing constitution is democratic and European. It's a fact, like the fact that everyone sitting here in the O.R. agrees that we should make a new constitution. We all agree with that fact. When we get to the new constitution, we'll adopt it. He's not adopted by the Parliament, he's adopted by the citizens. So I don't see any reason, or anyone you've replicated. We're not just here to lead the replicas. If you want to discuss who's doing what here, I could ask why G17 plus yesterday voted against his proposal to be a member of the NBS Board. You proposed it and you voted against it yesterday, and we Socialists voted yes. A high-quality man has been proposed, and we voted yes. You proposed a man from your party and voted against it yesterday. I guess you got confused or didn't know, you thought that was my suggestion. I suggest we get back to the agenda. Do not rephrase each other as part of the parliamentary group. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24742	There's a lie here. Mr Albianic said that all political parties represented in the Assembly are taking part in the creation of a new constitution and that there are some difficulties, and I must tell you that difficulties make up the president of the Assembly, in close co-operation with the DS, assisted DSS. I'll explain that connection. You know that we've reached the 40th or 50th members, that the DS has had its objections to several solutions in those first chapters, and that we're waiting to see what happens today, because DS won't answer our call to correct it and get to a common position. The president of the assembly does not call on the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs. I suggested we move on. What do we all have to agree on? Who says the consensus brings the Constitution? It is made by a two-thirds majority in the Assembly and by most registered voters in the referendum. Who says we have to agree on every point? I said - let's vote for every solution on the Subcommittee and get to the end, we go to the Assembly and if we have a two-thirds majority we go to the referendum. We can't be stiffed by someone who doesn't want to be involved. Yeah, if that's what we want. Why would you want to do that? So there wouldn't be a choice. And you, and you and "yellow." Just so there's no choice, there's work to make the Constitution. If you ask me, here I am replicating you, Mr. Angelkovic, this constitution is quite good for me. I'm taking part in this because you said - let's make the Constitution even more modern, so it doesn't turn out that the SRS is obstructing. No, we're in on it. The constitution is so good that the state works on it. As long as there is a Constitution and as long as you respect it, the state works, but you treat this constitution like it doesn't exist. That's your problem. I'd like to continue to reveal to you, in the discussion of the law, that there is no such thing for you, if anyone else was in power. That's your problem. Serbia has a constitution. You're saying we have a desire to write a new one. It's okay, but we're not working on that new one. Don't say we're all working on it. We don't. The president of the assembly doesn't invite us. Set me up as chairman of that subcommittee, so you can see if it works, whether there will be any meetings, whether to move on. If I can agree to some solutions or leave the Assembly to vote on the solutions proposed by the SRS, the G17 plus, the DSS can do it, the DSS can do it. Since September of the month you have suffered to be reported by the President of the Assembly waiting for the DS's response to some of our remarks. How long will it wait? Until new elections, according to the old Constitution. I know you well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24743	Mr. Nikolic, I didn't realize you were replicating me, because I think the Constitution is ideal, and I was still involved in its adoption. Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24744	I do not dispute these facts presented by Tomislav Nikolic, but rather the slow way in which they are interpreted here. So, the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, which has just entered the hall, is also headed by the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs, and can confirm what I'm saying, it is true that he did not call the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs and that he did not call him because we did not get the DS response, which they insisted on, and so that we could continue working on the text of the Constitution. Where's the error of interpretation and why did I answer? First, because you said that the whole thing was supported by the DSS, which, of course, is not true. We participated in the Committee and the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs. The problem is that the Constitutional Affairs Committee has decided to wait for that answer and then have a session scheduled. The agreement exists and will be confirmed by the president of parliament. However, that is not the point of what I want to say, but in the following: to bring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to be a respected act, in order to last long, it is necessary to have a broad social agreement on its adoption. Going with a variant that we can move into constitutional change, by shutting the DS out of that procedure, whatever the party thinks about and how it works, when it comes to the procedure for changing the Constitution, and I think it's all the worst, I think it's bad. What we need to do is convince the relevant political parties in Serbia to participate in this process, to do it for the best purposes and to end this process. So no one is doing this to delay potential elections, the first regular elections after the new constitution is passed, but precisely because the constitution is being passed. You know very well that we are committed to respecting existing rules, the existing constitution and its revisional provisions that speak very clearly how the Constitution changes and brings new ones. This country needs citizens' support to change the constitution, and this support can only be achieved by applying relevant political parties in Serbia to adopt a new constitution. So that's what didn't suit them. It'll probably change very quickly, we've got some hints, but we'll see what the next days will bring. I don't dispute the facts that have been presented, but only to slow down their interpretation, in the part about helping and in the other part, where the fact that a very broad social agreement is needed to make this thing work properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24745	Mr. Obradovic has the word. Mr. Albianic, what's the problem? Mr. Albian, you don't have eyes in the back, I look forward and I see who answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24746	I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on this topic which has suddenly been imposed in Parliament's work, to say a few words, and also on what Mr Albianic mentioned, speaking about the relationship or attitude of the G17 regarding our constitution. In fact, everyone in Serbia is famous, but I don't know why, when we speak in the National Assembly, we talk or call on those political parties who, objectively, have not so far wanted to participate in the work of making a new constitution. It is known that there is an obligation to create a new constitution, an obligation arising from the Constitutional Charter and that we have joined the meeting of this obligation in the National Assembly, and that on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is exactly what MP Nikolic of the SRS is saying, in the beginning, absolute consent has been reached, and the Assembly has decided to approach a new constitution. At that time there was absolute agreement and I know that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was told – when a new constitution is made, elections will go, but elections at all levels: parliamentary, presidential and local. After that, the DS, for very pragmatic reasons, appeared with its proposal for a new constitution, and we know why – because elections should be discussed for the president of the Republic of Serbia, and Tadic and all of them know well that they will no longer be president, because of the way they do their job. I find it interesting that someone here in the O.R. won't understand. We have nothing to call on the DS, to claim that we have excluded them from the work of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, they have excluded themselves because they do not want elections for the President of the Republic, as a consequence of the adoption of a new constitution. Otherwise, when it comes to the existing constitution, it is absolutely a Constitution containing a gro, or to the greatest extent those solutions that serve the Republic of Serbia, in relation to European legislation. That's a fact. In the previous assembly of the National Assembly, when the creation of a new constitution came into essence and content, it was seen that 80% of the material of the existing constitution would be in the new constitution. Human and minority rights are not at all controversial and there is no argument Mr. Albianic mentioned. Human and minority rights are something that is immediately agreed upon. Only that our Democrats did not want to establish, the obligations of minority members, as part of constitutional matter, relating to human and minority rights, to know what obligation a minority member has, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is not only the rights but also the obligation, because it also writes in the relevant acts or standards of the international community. Otherwise, there's logical inconsistencies. It seems to me that we have had the largest number of draft laws from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or at least largely from colleagues from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, or represented the dry ministers from that political party. If the Constitution is non-democratic, how come so many laws are passed and all are called upon to the Constitution. Something doesn't make sense. Therefore, they do not stand, nor do they state about the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24747	The word is Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24748	Of course, there are political desires, there are political messages. It is my duty to respect the decisions of the Assembly and I believe that it is the obligation of all. This National Assembly has made it clear that a new constitution is being established through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and everyone is obliged to implement this decision. I don't see why we'd argue about it, unless it happens, and sometimes it happens, and now we've heard the testimony that some people aren't able to respect the decisions they voted for. There are enough responsible people here who are able to respect their decisions and I fully understand that people, who are in charge, participate in the work of one body, this time in the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs, because it is also a decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to access the work in a certain way. I understand that for political reasons, they want to get an accurate confirmation of what they've personally received, so I don't blame it, but since I'm called, then I have to say it in public. Many people in the media, who are neither informed nor involved, nor are MPs, give a whole series of statements about what is happening to the Constitution and of course I never personally responded to it, because why would I answer to the incompetent to their delusions. Of course, it is possible that I would enter into some internal debates, it is possible that their parties do not inform them. When it comes to the possibility and responsibility for the appointment of subcommittee meetings, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this Mr Nikolic knows and I think that he just wanted me to publicly pronounce all of this and fully understand this kind of call, to insisting on one member of the subcommittee, after a delay in work during 2005; please, the subcommittee does not work publicly, and it is not necessary to give names and last names; a decision has been dictated which we have all voted for to demonstrate the responsibility of all the other subcommittee members, from all the parliamentary groups, who have been involved in the approach and responsible work. I've only heard the first part of your presentation, so, up to half of the text, where the text has been partially agreed, and in part the alternatives have been left behind, because there are no fundamental differences, but alternatives to the technical and legal solution. Therefore, only by pawning one member has been decided not to call on the subcommittee, so I am obliged to respect that decision, as long as the interested parties of the text promoters who have been taken into account do not allow experts to agree on these alternatives, and then, in accordance with the proposal made by Mr Nikolic, which we have all also accepted, determines on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the final version of the first half of the constitutional proposal. In comparison, I must respect those decisions. I asked the interested party, Mr Nikolic; because both Mr Nikolic and I, along with two other proposals, were interested as the people who put the solution; and we said – no, we will not propose an expert. Then one interested person confirmed the expert, the other one did not. That's what I informed him about in a letter, September 28, 2005. As it turns out that the letter was not handed to him by the party, and he's too busy with state functions, so I realized, I sent him a new letter, on February 28th of this year, and I also informed you about it and I understand what you want me to confirm. In order for the subcommittee to continue, it is necessary that the party seeking such a conclusion and which is unanimously voted fulfil its obligation. I can't make people fulfill their obligation. Just one more note, it's nice to talk politically about the Constitution, but it certainly needs as wide a consensus as possible to implement the decision made by this National Assembly. I confirm, as I have publicly confirmed several times, that in the work so far, except for the inadequacy of one member, all actively participated, as I remind you that whatever is said, Mr. Obradovic, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, elections at all, or not at all levels, are not determined by the Constitution at all, but by the constitutional law that follows. In this regard, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs cannot decide that after the adoption of the Constitution there will be elections at all levels, depending on the solution in the Constitution and, of course, you know that, at the same time as the Constitution is adopted, it is then adopted, in a period of clear law, the constitutional law on enforcement. It also defines election deadlines. In the case of, unless the solutions are entirely identical to the existing laws, and these drafts will not make it so, the most natural would be to adopt new legal solutions, in accordance with the Constitution, as well as elections at all levels. Once again, no small parties have ever prevented this. I'm sorry, I have to do this now while I'm explaining that I'm taking care of it, and I thank everyone who doesn't care about it, that we have to do everything we can to get as much consensus as possible, and I still can't affect those who aren't able to implement the decisions they voted for. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24749	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, we gave you two and a half replicas because it was an important question. And now, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. The Rules of Procedure have injured the chairman, currently Mr. Angelkovic. So, not only the dignity of the National Assembly, but my own, and I don't know what are the reasons and motivations of Mr. Angelkovic to call me for days, to try to use the Assembly for certain accounts, whether in his political party or elsewhere, which I am not completely interested in. I don't know why I use the chair to comment on certain things wrong. First, it is true that by mistake one number of MPs G17 plus did not vote yesterday for one of the points we voted for for technical reasons. By mistake, I got out of my seat during the vote itself, but misusing it in the worst possible way is not allowed. I don't understand what that really means to you. Secondly, certain political views that certain parties can bring to certain places at a certain time; is it possible that all the time, both during the day and today, you are trying in a certain way to provoke me, as president of the G17 Group of MPs plus, in order to polarise it, for some of your political internal promotions, which I am not interested in. I hope those balloons get out of your head already.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24751	I thank Mr Albianic for warning of Article 104. I'm going to have to quote it, of course, so people know what you're talking about. Article 104 says, "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." I am deeply convinced that everyone today respected the dignity of the National Assembly. (Milojub Albianic, from the scene: except for you. ) Mr. Albianic, don't let me give you a warning and a warning about what you're throwing out of place, because it's a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'll be correct, although you can accuse me of violating the Rules of Procedure because I'm not warning you that you're throwing out of place. Another point: "People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." Third: "The use of offensive expressions is not allowed, nor is the presentation of facts and evaluations relating to private life." None of this was the subject, not on my side, not on the side of any other MP. The fact is that MPs G17 plus yesterday did not vote for a member of the National Bank Governor's Council, which was proposed by the G17 plus on the Finance Committee, and the Finance Committee accepted. And I voted then, as a member of the Committee, and that is a political fact. It is not a use for my political purposes or for other political purposes, it is something that I think offends the parliamentary majority when you do not vote for what you have proposed, which means you do not trust your proposal. I just put out that political fact and it's not insulting anyone. On the contrary. So, Mr. Albianic, I don't want to provoke you, but you'll get a word when you get on the agenda, or in order, when you apply, not whenever you want. You are not privileged in relation to any other MP here, and now the replica has appeared... No, we're done here, we're moving on. Do any of the other authorised representatives want to talk about the agenda point? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Dacic spoke, as Mr. Krasic did, not Mr. Nikolic, since he was authorized. You weren't here, so you're probably waiting to be the last of the heads of Parliament's clubs, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24752	Thank you for that comment. So, before us is the Rehabilitation Act, which is a civil law, for the simple reason that it tries to do something that at the level of a human, moral civilization act is not easy to achieve, trying to correct certain injustices. I am aware that throughout the history of injustice there have been many, that they have been done by various people who have been in power, because the government is such that a man is corrupting, corrupting him, even the most restricted power in the world, limited by a good constitution, in good democratic denial also corrupts those who do this power and leaves room for it, by the law, past the Constitution of the state to do injustice. In particular, injustice can be imagined and the most happening in war winds when, precisely because of the action of armed conflict on the territory of a country or more, there is a lack of opportunity for the legal system, legal order, to protect human rights. But I wouldn't talk about it here in such a wide way, I'd concentrate on two questions. Can we form a democratic order by the end of the 20th century as it is done in a democratic world that is our example today, and simply say, for everything that has happened in the past, and this is the 20th century, because when we talk about the categories of protection of human rights and basic values of civilised society, we can hardly talk about the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, we are already talking about the 20th century, and then there are also United Nations that function with basic postulates and principles and documents that the international community through, above all, this kind of association of state dissipated, so whether we can talk about that one society, one state can continue a normal democratic life, and hold that letter – there is no work done. Simply, what happened in our not so long ago, and today there are living witnesses to these events and what happened basically in the non-democratic order after World War II, if nothing else because of what was a unilateral system, so what happened and the injustices that were done to people at that time, whether the state should be left without an answer, in principle – there is no job done wrong. I don't think so, I think we need to act that way to rehabilitate those whose injustice has been done. Rehabilitation can't bring people back, you can't automatically correct them, and probably to someone after 40, 30, 20 and some years, because there's been injustice in a period that's not just about World War II, it doesn't mean much today, but it can mean much to this country and it can mean a nation. That's what's very important. Of course, it can also mean family members, or their successors. Therefore, there are two categories of those persons, those who are simply deprived of life or property or any other good, without any judicial or administrative decision and who later suffered the consequences of that act, which is primarily related to the period during and shortly after World War II, suffered other consequences, particularly property and the consequences of the right to inherit such property which was most often confiscated. Of course, there were both judicial and administrative aids, or decisions, which produced the same consequences. What we need to say today is that this law does not apply to the rehabilitation of anyone who has committed any crime, because a crime against the criteria that we today adhere to and in our legislation that regulates issues and war crimes and crimes against humanity and crimes against life and bodies, against property, crimes against property, these standards apply for that time, and we also have to assume that they were at that time. In other words, this law cannot rehabilitate those who have committed criminal acts and therefore provides for a procedure in this law to assess whether they have been met in any particular case under the conditions for rehabilitation submitted. So this law serves only one purpose - the just purpose, which is to rehabilitate innocent persons. Everything else is completely off the table in this case. All questions concerning ideological debates about who was working with, with the occupier, whether or not, which made the army a fair fight against the occupiers, which is not, all of which is not the subject of the debate of this law, but is the subject of what we are discussing here today – that those persons who are winding up are rehabilitated, and who were also bound by World War II in our area, and those events that were directly related to the time after World War II, so for God's sakes and years afterwards, have made the authority that was legal then, and does not necessarily mean that it was legitimate, to its arrogance, hurt these people. So that's what this is about. Of course, I ask you only in the name of this fact that serves to put our country in the context of the state of democratic structure, to pass this law and not to hold a debate on Chetniks, partisans, occupiers, domestic traitors and similar things, because this law has no such thing as a subject at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24753	Are any of the heads of Parliament's clubs or authorised representatives answering for a word? The word has a People's MP, Zoran Ćirkovic, just a little bit, if you're authorized in front of the parliamentary group, we have no authority, so, in front of the parliamentary group, then I ask you to deliver your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24754	So this important law has been discussed by representatives of all the parliamentary groups in this House. On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs, I found it appropriate to declare this matter myself, although by the very act of voting, we are already expressing our political position. There were some things that were really unnecessary here, and again the stories of Chetniks and Partisans are being opened. We have passed the Law on the Rights of Participants of the Equality Movement, and this law has in principle only moral power. The number of surviving members of the Montenegrin movement is too small and their material rights, I mean the ones we've approved, have been fine-tuned, because we see that this disability protection law is once again removed from the agenda. Therefore, their rights are well and prolonged if they are ever realised. I still felt it was appropriate to say something to this law. The truth is, this law has its moral and civilizational weight. The objections to those why he refers only to the time of April 6th are completely unreasonable to me. Of course, some date must be established and that most natural date is April 6, 1941, because if you think about a date that is further than that, it could only raise a lot of questions. However, there has been violence, occupation, one legal and state system has fallen and a new one has been established. What I really liked about this law is the attitude that I will quote: "The adoption of the Rehabilitation Act is one of the ways in which we break up with our authoritarian past and a very important moral act that moves from communism into a democratic and liberal, modern society." Of course, from democracy can be crossed into another society, but our hope is that it is a liberal and democratic society, and indeed, since October 2000, this change has been evident. It is true that former members of the Communist Party also participated in the democratic coup, but they simply did so out of the belief that the stance had been denied. Therefore, if we were to discuss this matter, it is necessary, indeed, once again, to rehabilitate those rights. The second thing I liked about this law, and it is understood that my parliamentary group will support this law, is the fact that the request to the First District Court, which is first-degree, can be submitted by all interested persons for rehabilitation and that they do not have to explain it. None of them will ask for an explanation as to why they are considered interested, it is simply an act that applies for rehabilitation, an interested person. In this way, even those who have certain ideological reasons, including political, or are simply not in any relation, family or blood, have ways, reasons, the need for the court of history, to clear the names of the person they consider to have been unjustly accused. For example, we have heard here complaints that this law on rehabilitation will be rehabilitated and Milan Nedic. Milan Nedic doesn't have to be rehabilitated. But, for example, his refugee commissioner, Toma Maksimovic, must be rehabilitated. Had it not been for Tom Maksimovic, Sava could not have received as many Serbian heads as NDH would have sent us. We need to rehabilitate this Maximovic. Sure, if it hasn't been done by now, and I guess there were no legal options, it will be now. Therefore, those refugee rivers, the Serbian poor woman who found salvation in Serbia, will have the opportunity to rehabilitate Tom Maksimovic. I remembered him at this point. Surely his example is not the most escalating, there are indeed many examples of people who have suffered in God’s justice. This law will put such decisions, in which they were killed, outside the law and any legal consequences arising from such unfair decisions will be suspended. So I see that this law has its moral and civilizational value and we will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24755	I thank you, Mr. Cirkovic. Anyone else who hasn't yet used the law, the president of the Parliament Club or an authorised representative, wants a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to the order of MPs, according to the application. In the main review of the Rehabilitation Law proposal, Istvan Ispanovic of G17 Plus reported. Here you go, Mr. Išpanović, then Zharko Obradovic applied for the word, then Jovan Palalic, then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24756	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few words about this draft law on rehabilitation, by speaking in general about the need to pass such a law, and in particular I will talk about the importance of adopting legislation from the corner of the Hungarian national minority in Vojvodina. We've seen in the debate so far that it's a very complex matter. I think it's also a very sensitive question, and for many citizens today, it's a painful question, so this law has an exceptional meaning. In a way, it's facing society with its own past. It is also important because of the break-up and distance from the non-democratic regime, even though the debate so far raised the big question whether any previous regimes were non-democratic by 1990. I think so. It is very important to identify some facts, unfortunately, not 20, 30, 40, but also from over 60 years ago. I am absolutely certain that by passing this law we will not be able to correct all historical injustices, but also this debate and later the rehabilitation process itself can show us a different path, a path towards building a democratic society in which some other values of modern civilization will dominate, such as: the right to life, freedom, security, the right to freedom of expression of opinion, gathering, association, the inalienable right of private property which has long not been respected and some other rights known to you, which belong to man and citizen. Of course, here was the debate on the need to adopt the Constitution. Also, I think that if we want to change societies, it's necessary to bring that constitution in as soon as possible, but that's not enough to change society. It is necessary to pass some other laws besides this law on rehabilitation, and the Law on the Return of Assets, I hope that this year we will pass it, the Law on opening secret files, the Law on Civil Control of the Security Authority and some other laws. It is necessary to apply some already passed laws that, unfortunately, we do not apply, although we have passed them. Many think that this law must be passed because the international community expects us to. I think we need to pass the law for our own sake, not for our external pressures. This way we can and should express our view of some past events. I don't think such past events can be justified by some revolutionary justice and some other ideological reasons. I think that, especially the older ones who have taught the school in a different environment, in a different regime, we ourselves need to change some of our views on historical events. I would like to welcome and share the opinion of most MPs, that this is a bold move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the bill itself has certain irregularities which we hope to correct through the examination of the amendments submitted. I personally filed a few amendments to this law. I believe that we will have the law, with the difficulties mentioned here in the application of this law, yet we will establish some real historical truth, without which objective rehabilitation of people who will use the provisions of this law cannot be carried out. The period since 1941, in some parts of it, has not been sufficiently studied, especially some events could not be talked about at all, until 1990. I'll say something about these events later. The reasons were mostly ideological, and unfortunately there were reasons why some would not be called to account, so it was not possible to talk about these events publicly. There have already been words here that the situation in Serbia has been extremely complex, beginning in 1941. There was also civil war in these areas, interethnic conflicts and the socialist revolution, collective punishment, ethnic cleansing and various prison camps. There was a war going on, there was also talk here about non-Nedicians and Latvians. It was practically a war against everyone. To make the situation more complex, Vojvodina, where I came from, was divided into three parts during the war, practically belonged to, or under the sovereignty of, three different states. I think the particular problem is that it was too late to process these historical facts during the war, right after the war. In other countries, in most countries, all issues from World War II have mostly been cleared up. This was not done in communist countries because there were certain reasons why it could not be talked about during the war, or shortly after the war. It also reflects some of the discussions that were conducted here today. Hence, it is essential that we try to answer some of these questions from existing historical buildings. I also have a few words here to say about the decision of the Vojvodina Assembly, which was educated by the Scientific Committee for the Determination of Historical Truth for the period from 1941 to 1945. The survey board started working back in 2000 and working day and day, and around 80% of the jobs were completed to determine the historic structure. Of course, the survey committee does not work, not the MPs elected to the committee, that is, not only are they, but historians are involved, means scientific workers, who do the tasks of identifying these historical buildings. I'd like to say something later, I'd like to just point out now, about the period of military administration in Vojvodina. The military administration was from October 1944 to February 1945. It has already been said here, by some debaters, about various events, about people who have been convicted as occupiers, various traitors, enemies, war profiteers, etc., whom, of course, by some basis and taken away property without talking about informers, working dissidents, people who are convicted of verbal delinquency. Of course, it's now a chance for them to be rehabilitated. As for the very concept of the law, when I read the law and tried to give some amendments, the question of general concepts was raised, whether it was meant to include those who were convicted and those people for whom there were no decisions, but they suffered some other things or their life was taken away, whether it could have been solved in some other way. It means that people who haven't done anything are rehabilitated by a special decision without being asked in each individual case to perform rehabilitation. This is the way, the bill came from the possibility that each must be conducted in particular and that they are rehabilitated. Of course, I didn't want to submit any amendments that would completely change the concept of the law, so I stayed within the framework of the proposal and my amendments only improve the text proposed by the government. I think there will be particular controversy about the right to compensation damage and the return of the seized property. The text of the law itself, i.e. Article 5, does not directly compensate for damages, in particular the compensation of immaterial damages, but must be resolved in another way. That's what I'll talk about when the amendments are on the agenda, on the subject. I must say that there are certain international experiences that regulate the way these persons are compensated, whether materially or for this immaterial damage. I think that if we pass a law on the return of property, in this law we will also have to provide for a provision on the payment of immaterial damage to persons covered by rehabilitation. Now I won't bother you anymore, but I would like to say a few words about the need for rehabilitation, namely how it reflects among the duchy Hungarians and a few words about their deaths during the military administration. I must say, there was no serious investigation into the death of the duchy Hungarians during or shortly after World War II. One historian says no one asked for it, that's why this period hasn't been explored. I hope it doesn't stay that way, because there are already certain results, I was just talking about the work of that polling committee in the Vojvodjan Assembly. But there are also several historians who are very serious about these issues. Now I'd like to say something about these injuries of the duchy Hungarians and I don't want to cause emotions, so I'm going to try to speak mostly in the language of fact. It is known that in October 1944 a decision was made by the Supreme Commander of Partisan Units, Josip Broz Tito, on the introduction of military administrations in Bačka, Banat and Baranja, when the war was over in those areas, because in mid-October they had already been released from Bacak, Banat and Baranja. So, it's still been done during the war, but there were no longer war facts in those areas. By the military administration, as well as the highest province party leadership, the Germans and Hungarians were assessed as the main culprits of mass and various crimes committed against Serbs and Jews in Banat, Bačka and Baranja, for which they had to respond. That's the attitude of leadership of the military administration of that time. After making this decision, historians say, it is not my word, that the first days of liberation, means in October 1944, there was an uncontrollable killing of Hungarians, including innocents. The fact is, they were mostly innocent. It was also recorded that after a few days in Bačka, war criminals and similar ones were brought to justice, and that about 250 people were convicted and shot as war criminals. However, as many victims, this is now the biggest problem, why there was no investigation of these crimes, so now the figures move, at least some historians estimate as the smallest figure of the Hungarians killed – about 4-5 thousand, while some say there were 20,000. There are even some writers from Hungary who believe there are 50 or 60 thousand victims. The problem is not so much in the number of victims, although it is very important, but in that there are no records at all, or until almost completely unaccessible records, various documents from that period, because these shootings were conducted mainly by OZNA units, a national security predecessor, and all documents were kept in various archives of national security, which were not possible until 1990. So there are these manipulations regarding the victims of Hungarian nationality. It would be very important to establish the correct number in this rehabilitation process. Now I ask you not to be surprised – in Vojvodina today there are a large number of mass graves, where Hungarians are buried, which are not known exactly, are not exactly marked, let alone at any time determined how many victims have been buried there. Now I'm just going to use one more example, and that's an example from the handcuff part of the Vojvodina. You know, we all learned together in history that in 1942 the Hungarian authorities committed slaughter in the region of Šikaša, in the southern part of Tisa, or in Novi Sad. It is indisputable, in history books a long time ago, that some 4,000 innocent Serbs were killed at that time. I have historical data that there were about 1200 victims in Novi Sad, and the rest were in Curug, Frog, etc. However, after the end of the war, three villages where there were most of these innocent Serb victims, meaning Curug, Froglj and Moshorin, these were mixed villages, were Serbs and Hungarians, after the war from these three villages all Hungarians were evicted. They were evicted by the fact that part of it was killed, and the rest of them took a bandage into their hands and drove everyone to the camp. So, in these three villages, there's no, I don't know, there's an MP from Frogs, he might know better, Hungarian lives. Not to say that even today it is not possible to visit graves in these three villages, in any way to mark those places where the duchy Hungarians died. Of course, I could talk a lot about these questions. However, this is the first time in one congregation, I think of both the Federal and the Republic Assembly, this issue is mentioned in general. So, over the past 60 years, this hasn't been allowed to happen for a while, and later she couldn't talk. I tried to be objective about these facts and I didn't want to cause your emotions in any way in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24757	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Jovan Palalic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24758	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, the SPS will not vote in favour of the Rehabilitation Law, because we think the law is bad, that it is imprecise, that it provides the basis for unitary behaviour, that certain formulations are broadly set, that the whole essence – the revision of history, above all what happened on the premises of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro during World War II, as well as the political rehabilitation of people who co-operated with Germans, Italians, who, together with fascists, occupied this country and fought against people who were participants in the People's Liberation War and Revolution. This also confirms the reasoning of this law, not members, but the argument absolutely, is confirmed by the discussions of those who will vote in favour of this law, as well as the behaviours of the democratic forces after 5 October 2000. When it comes to reasoning, it is interesting to mention breaking up with the authoritarian past, the obligation of democratic Serbia, is talked about murdered people, due to a political stance. When it comes to discussions so far, you have seen almost everyone talking about World War II, and no one mentions any other periods from our political past that could possibly be undermined by the provisions of this law. When it comes to behaviour, developments in Serbia after the October 5th counter-revolution or coup, we have seen what it looks like in practice when democratic forces exercise power. Citing democratic values and applying the Constitution to suit them, the law – when they wanted it, put the judiciary under their control and the absolute dictatorship of the executive government, a huge number of Socialists and people who were in power until 2000, subjected to absolute political persecution. From this speaker, former DOS ministers threatened publicly that the subject of Home Affairs and Justice would be Socialists, which was happening and is a political basis. From this pay phone, they uttered threats that were later turned into a concrete defeat. There's something else that says that this is absolutely political. It is mentioned in the part of the law that if a court decides that a damaged party may call for compensation of property. That it's really so-called. The democratic forces, after October 5th, care that both that part of the story or the promises they made before that were fulfilled, would then certainly not have allowed the disputed property to be transferred into the pockets of newly-compromised rich people. Serbia was robbed through privatisation, 1,000 of the best companies sold for two billion euros. Part of these companies, at least according to the claims of people who offered certain papers and documents, were part of the property of people who owned it before World War II. If they really thought about the compensation of the property and claimed that the property was illegally seized, that they were taking care of it, then that property should not be the subject of privatisation, and it was, and it is, and it is a being. So it's something that's absolutely happening and this law has nothing to do with that dimension, although it does mention it. Of course, if this happens, it will, as well as many things that are in general character, be broken over the back of citizens, because the political decisions will carry a claim for compensation for material damage, for return of property, and the property has already been alienated, sold, in the pockets of one of the new rich people, and then can only be done to return the property from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, although we have cases that some municipalities without any decision return the property. It says what state Serbia is in. A few days ago, the newspaper published a report that three sites were returned to former owners in the municipality of Arangelovac, based on a suggestion from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He sent a circulatory letter, where he suggested that local self-government return the property to the right owners, and SO made those decisions based on that letter, suggestions. Then you can think about what will happen when a decision is made that it is an individual, or a decision that means political rehabilitation and all that comes from it. Personally, we of the SPS think that this law represents only a continuation of the Law on Equalising the Rights of Chetniks and Partisans, a law that we passed some time ago in the National Assembly and that makes the whole world laugh at us. The whole world is laughing at Serbia, which, 60 years after World War II, found fit to carry out a history review and that those who co-operated with the occupier declared the Allied forces. That's why they didn't call us to the manifestations that were being marked around the world about winning Fascism, and if we were invited to the place we had been in last row, because we dared to end history, believing that the law that was passed in the congregation could change what happened decades ago and what many had declared. We then offered many foreign documents, so that they would not object to objectivity, which they showed and proved that apart from individual actions in 1941, the Chetniks were not someone who fought fascists. On the contrary, they cooperated, did evil, and it is known. Now, under some 2006 law, on the basis of evidence that will be God-question-what, and already creating an atmosphere to make these evidence relevant, it will be like two witnesses and a finished story, that someone for political reasons was the subject of torture and that he was denied some right. That's what Serbia needs to know, because this law is just a continuation of the law. We're creating some faceless society where you just won't know what's good and what's bad. You won't know what's positive, what's negative, but it'll probably be the political will or command of the political forces, something that's decisive for everyone's actions. Why on April 6, 1941, as the date contained in this law? Why was no date taken for the creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians? Why do human rights violations not include that part of Serbia's history when several thousand communists were in prison because of the political attitude and opinion expressed? Why April 6, 1941, and it has nothing to do with World War II. We didn't get any relevant answers. When it doesn't matter, it could have happened before. A colleague says it would cause further problems. Let them challenge. You don't think this is gonna cause any trouble? Someone cares about being rehabilitated politically, rehabilitated because of family members, children or grandchildren. Family members will have the right to ask for it. Why should we care about the rights of others? Let's create a legal condition, so let them ask. It's not up to us to estimate that a request can be filed from that date. We are fully convinced that the subject matter of this law will be a review of all judicial verdicts or at least a huge number of judicial verdicts that are against the war crimes offenders, which have been brought by the military courts of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia. We're totally convinced of that. There will probably be a decision, a verdict, opinions that will show that people killed in the fight against the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, that it was the subject, or that it was the reason, ideological or other, because 60 and a few years after World War II, the issue of documents and evidence will be extremely relative. It's something that exists as a fact. Will this law cover those who were subject to political persecution after October 5th? Formal - yes. Will people be able to prove that they were the object of persecution? No, I don't. That's what practice has shown in these past few years. I mentioned several times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hundreds of cases, members of the SPS, which were subject to political persecution. A legal basis was found, or a known abuse of official office, or some other provision of the Criminal Code, which was extremely maliciously interpreted. These processes last and last, and there's nothing to prove, and when they can't prove what's contained in the indictment, then the indictment is extended to years before anything else can be found. Do you really think that these people who, for example, for the sake of the case, have deprived President Milosevic of freedom on the basis of a constitutional decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Based on one decision, an anti-constitutional decision, involving the entire Serbian judiciary. You didn't react, you didn't say anything, you didn't say anything, you didn't say the judge, you didn't say the district judge, you didn't say the Supreme Court, you didn't say the D.A.'s office. It's a couple of excellent political decisions and we don't need great wisdom to understand its essence. It is called democratic Serbia and these are democratic values. Anything is possible, anything is allowed, just to finish what we need. President Milosevic, without a court ruling, was deprived of his freedom, kidnapped and taken to The Hague and killed essentially because this law applies to him as well. Technically, yes. Do you think there's anything you can do? I know that no, because of the situation in the Serbian judiciary and because of individuals or groups or even political parties, everything left-wing in the past is communist, which is all apriorius negative. It's something they carry with them, and they can't get rid of it. As long as there's no step forward. To conclude, this law is, in our opinion, very bad, it will cause a lot of negative consequences. If those people who enforce this law are consistent, and I know they won't, but I'm saying: if, hypothetically, then the subject of sanctions will be the people of the current government. People of course count that it doesn't apply to them, but they need to know that power is a miracle. You're in power today, and tomorrow you're not, and the election will change quickly and the government will change. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Title in the newspaper – "Socialists say the elections will be quick". The elections will be quick and the government will change. Such a political structure will not remain in power, and those who drill into the chest like this and call for the respect of the law, and interpret it in their own way, will be in a situation tomorrow, whether they want it or not, to feel all the benefits called democratic Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24759	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24760	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the fact that this law rightly seeks to establish justice and correct the injustice that was done in the previous period, there is no doubt that the key motive for the adoption of this law is the issue of affirmation of fundamental human rights and Serbia's adherence to the rule of law and the rule of law. In the previous period, when Serbia's historic path and commitment is analysed, it is clear that since its creation of modern Serbia, the tendency has been to prevent the adoption of the Constitution from being authoritarian, to have uncontrollably available lives, property and all other rights of citizens. After a despotia that was not disputed, Milosevic, when both property and women were kidnapped, was brought to the Sretenjski Constitution and has since set off the path of Serbia's constitutionality, where exactly these fundamental human rights have been guaranteed. We cannot ignore the fact that in one period of our history we had a regime that put all these rights out of force and political persecution, the oppression of everything that was thought differently at that time, established as a policy. These were not individual cases, but a clear policy of persecuting non-insects, potentially politically dangerous, those who carried civil and national awareness in Serbia. There is no doubt that during that period there have been violations of all basic human rights established by those 19th-century declarations, rights to life, freedom of mind, property, and what Serbia was committed to, I said, from its origin to this period of establishment of authoritarian rule in the 40s. It is precisely the fact that the adoption of this law, at a time when Serbia is changing and when it wants to strengthen its institutions to affirm the rule of law again and thus legitimateise itself as part of a large family of European people, it is important to bring such a law and send a message that Serbia wants this fundamental human right to affirm in such a way that there will never be ideological issues or political persecutions again because of differences in political opinion. Never again, no matter who's in power. That's why this law is important, and that's why his message is important. Of course, by enforcing this law, we must believe in the Serbian judiciary, that the competent court, when an interested person turns to him with clear evidence, will determine whether there were any of these phenomena. Not only is it easy to determine whether there were judicial and administrative decisions, but whether there were, and we know, in Serbia and those who had nothing to do with the various military movements that were either enemies or thought differently from the regime that was being created, thus depriving individual rights and even life. It is true, in addition to this Rehabilitation Act, it is important to pass a law on denationalisation, because property has been seized to those designated as political opponents and should be returned to them because property rights must be affirmed. That is why it is very important for this process to continue, for Serbia to again affirm itself as a legal state in which basic human rights are guaranteed and that those rights that are guaranteed in the Constitution are the freedoms of the thoughts and property of individuals and human rights to be freely defined in which they will live, in which way they will act. That is why the DSS will support this law and also recommend that other parties in this parliament support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24761	The word of the Messenger of the people is Tomislav Nikolic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will not enter the O.R. in the day to vote under this bill, and you decide how you will go on and whether you can, this debate is just an empty story. Let's see the reasons why we shouldn't take part in the vote for this bill. First, this law is a finger in the eye of the political followers of the communists from whom the government depends. I don't understand why you humiliate these people so much and challenge the extent to which their patience goes, the way you deal with them ideologically here. For another reason, I am in preparation to allow Serbian emigration to vote electronically, so say, you have already introduced yourself as people who gave the Chetts pensions, and now you will also be able to take away the property from those who are partisans, so their successors will be able to e-price you from abroad, when not this poor woman who has no money to buy bread will vote for you someone from abroad. The third is – the hypocritical leadership of the state and government. This law resembles the Lustration Act, which makes a difference, is the Lustration Act applied? Yes, on several individuals in education, something in the judiciary. Have the wrongs been corrected? No, they're not. Neither will this law correct wrongs, but who will correct them, you? Who now claims that without a bag on your back, you who entered the ideological and political conflict on October 5th with those who were before you in power. Until three days ago, you had a political deal with dead Slobodan Milosevic, did you forgive him for anything? If he was never convicted, could the former president of the state be buried with military honors in the Alley of the Giants, could he have been exposed in the Federal Assembly? What did the president of Serbia say? The people said on October 5th what they thought of Slobodan Milosevic. So what, last year he said what he thought about the Democratic Party, is now some fool supposed to take Zoran Djindjic out of that grave? What he said about Slobodan Milosevic's wife: "I am personally convinced that she participated in several serious crimes". The president of the state says that and it's over, there's no amnesty. How can I believe you're going to pursue justice? Shall we go into law analysis? This law regulates rehabilitation of persons who have been deprived of political and ideological reasons for life, freedom or other rights without judicial or administrative decisions or judicial and administrative decisions since 6 April 1941. You can't convince me that it's a reasonable term – almost 70 years, and that it's unreasonable to go beyond that. So, 70 years is too long, and I'm sorry, if there's anyone in the room who's 70 years old, it's too long, as well as 30 years and 20 years, it's all out of date after 20 years, and you found the date on April 6, 1941. So, from April 6th to today, if it is committed by ideological and political initiatives or if someone is punished by ideological and political initiatives, it can be rehabilitated. So until today, and today we're rehabilitating in advance, because this law, you don't say here that the fact of the law stops, continues to live. Some of your other lex specialists stopped on the day of their adoption, only to regulate the time until then. No, this law has no limitations. Now you predict, when you're in power, that someone for ideological and political reasons will be prosecuted. And why not before 6 April, because then the communists were killed, weren't they people, had no idea, fought for that idea? If you're bothered by those who led the state at the time of communism, which I can accept, I must warn you, that's our position from 1990 while we were all in opposition. It was then the main blow to the communists, to the unclassified, to the forced ransom, to this, to that, and now there's no forced ransom. Dinkic doesn't make a forced ransom? Doesn't take order, black under the fingernails, doesn't close banks, doesn't prescribe restrictions, doesn't limit the availability of private property as he wants? What's the difference, ours or theirs, where's the principle? Who will rehabilitate the people before 1941, the people who were persecuted by the monarchy, who will rehabilitate Milan Stojadinovic, doesn't he deserve it? What do you say next, the Belgrade court, the District Court, and the justification, thus creating assumptions for unifying the practice of law enforcement. There's only one court in Serbia. What does it mean that according to one law can only be tried in one court in Serbia? Let's say for all the laws, it's tried at the Belgrade District Court, because there's a levelling of practice, so one court judges all over Serbia, and that's evening practice. Who doesn't trust other district courts, who now thinks that judgments in other courts will be passed by law, and what practice would be unique? Practice is law enforcement, not decision making. Every decision must be based on the law and is left to the judge to decide, not to us who vote for the law. We decide which court is capable of enforcing this law, because the law is not right, because it is radically set up. If the decision is made, then there will be rehabilitation, the consequences will be void, even threatening the confiscation of state property. But if someone for whom no decision has been made is rehabilitated, he is declared a victim of persecution and violence for political and ideological reasons. What if a court ruling was made? Then it's not a political and ideological reason. Will you rehabilitate people who are in any way, for ideological and political reasons, deprived of life, freedom, any other rights or property? If you want it, it doesn't matter whether there was a decision or not, because he's a victim, and you're explicitly telling a member of the law, the victim is the only one who didn't have a decision, and that's how this legal norm is interpreted. You can interpret it differently, but since it hasn't been occupied by the Justice Committee, I don't know what the actual interpretation of the Committee looks like. What's this law gonna do? To challenge new divisions and quarrels, it's all in your best interest. You have caused divisions behind this pay phone, between those who are in power and those who support and what you count, on this bill we may lose the Socialists, but the radicals will vote, their grandfathers are persecuted during the communists. When he comes next, he will say, "What do we care about the radicals?" Now the Socialists will vote. That's not how you rule the country. In the state, everyone has to be happy, and the children of Chetniks and children of Partisans and we have to be mixed. And I've been so halved for 50 years, because one of my grandfathers was killed by Chetniks and another by Partisans. No grandfather of mine was guilty, but for nothing. Whoever had the gun, he killed. And now, after 65 years of judging, I will judge how it was, as easy for you to assess the role of Slobodan Milosevic, come out here, celebrate Nedic, which I can accept, saved many Serbs, and why you did not say, and Milosevic did the same in 1990, too, all rivers would be full of dead Serbs if Milosevic did not help Republika Srpska, Krajina. If this is a criterion for who wants to help Serbs, then you must not be against the ideology conducted by Slobodan Milosevic, as I was not against it, I was only against the way he did it. One is the standard. You're talking about schools, what was taught in schools at the time. Then I learned epic songs, first Serbian uprising, Second Serbian uprising, Balkan wars, World War I and World War II. You're telling me about who slaughtered whom and set an example for your people. Now we Serbs to bend our heads, to put our heads in the benches. Anyone who wants to load a mistake with Serbs will come out here and say: in my village, Serbs have been killed, and we will be silent, to knock down the head. Why don't you say he was in command of the Croat? Why don't you say Tito was a Croat? What does that have to do with Serbs now? It seems like we're reopening some Hague tribunal here. You're talking about people who have suffered damage for ideological reasons. You put Slobodan Milosevic, past the Constitution, on a plane and drove him to The Hague. Some of you have filed charges against Vojislav Seselj. For three years, you have not been interested in any Serbian citizens in The Hague tribunal, as if they were sneaky, as if you weren't the government here, but -- here's his family, the party, so let them fight for him. And the verdict against Milosevic would be a verdict against all of us, and you didn't want to help his defence, that the verdict against Mladic and Karadzic would be a verdict against all of us, and you promised, you made such a promise that you missed a deadline that was a dead line. So, you made a big promise. The newspapers say – Mladic. What if you don't catch the young man? Did you promise Kosovo? Did you promise we wouldn't discuss anything else here? Who did you make peace with today from us who represent the people in this room? Imagine when it's transferred to the village. What's that gonna look like? Do we need to talk about who did who to whom 70 years ago? I don't think so. What's the bread today? How many factories in Serbia are working? How many criminals are on the loose? How did you organize the state? Who's in charge of Serbia? How do you hold the sessions? We haven't been in the O.R. in four months, and you've passed a law on correcting injustices since 70 years ago. Live in the past, live in the clouds. When we've fixed everything and these injustices will be corrected. Is there any living who have been wronged? There isn't. If someone was 20 – 1945, how old is he now? You know that people from 1920 to 1930 are no longer alive. Well done, let's live for 200 years, but the biological timeline is ticking. If I wait at 54 years for you, as a government, to solve problems from 70 years ago, then I can tell my grandchild today – when you're 54 years old, he might solve your problems today. Do we need you like that? Or some who say we'll do this tomorrow, the day after that, in a year's time. There's always a fight with those before you, just reckonings. When there aren't enough of those before you, then between you. What I was saying was published in the books of the SRS. Let me see if any of you can publish what he's been saying. So whoever's not up for this bill, the one in the voting day won't get into the O.R. Who wants to protect the people who have been killed in the last 15 years, in the last five years, they won't enter the hall when it's voting day. This will teach the government of the Republic of Serbia what laws should be passed. We haven't met in three months, we could have held an emergency election. What would change in Serbia to bad? It would be some new assembly of parliament. A negotiating team would do their job, the government would do their job. Parliament had nothing to do, it didn't do, and today you would know what the will of Serbian citizens is. What you're legalizing is not the will of the Serbian citizens. They don't want to, they don't want to fight anymore. In this war we ended it, there are children of Chetniks and children of Partisans called each other Chetniks, there is no division there anymore. He who was tormented is no longer divided, but you who do not know what is torment, continue to fight, continue to share. If you'd been sore, you wouldn't have split up. But you have your own criteria, the criteria, for you is your worth, not someone else's; for you, your Prime Minister is the Prime Minister, and he's not someone else's. For you, Mirko Marjanovic, who was the government's continuum president for six years, Nikola Pasic did not put together for six years in continuum -- he was not the Prime Minister, he was a dog to be thrown away somewhere. That's what's waiting for us, too, if you'd be in power. Establish one principle equal to anything. There are people who are politically persecuted, there are people before 1941, they've been here since October 5th. Where are your men? Which of them will be protected? Which judge can protect him? What's the name of this judge who can protect him without being expelled from court? Once again, we will not enter the O.R., and those who enter, let them know that they helped bring the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24763	The People's Messenger George Mamula has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic. Prior to that, replica MP Zoran Cirkovic. Now we'll hear what the replica refers to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24764	Mr. Chairman, of course you didn't hear, because Mr. Angelkovic chaired the session when I spoke, but they heard it. Apparently, my predecessor, mentioning Milan Nedic, meant the part of the discussion I was talking about, since I don't suppose anyone mentioned him. I said that even though Milan Nedic will not rehabilitate the First District Court or the Supreme Court, Toma Maksimovic, his refugee commissioner, can be rehabilitated. My esteemed predecessor used to throw me out of place – "so the refugees were also received by Slobodan Milosevic". I didn't answer, but since he just mentioned it, I'm going to answer now. It is simply unnecessary, I would say rudely, to bring to the same level Slobodan Milosevic and Milan Nedic. Milan Nedic has not been convicted, he is tired in the communist case, has not been carried out, etc. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: And Milosevic is condemned? ) Furthermore, this case was opened by the authorities of the time. This one in The Hague is not of the then authorities, but is open to the Security Council's decision. So it's open with the decision of another organ, etc. Simply bringing it into a relationship is unnecessary and harmful. Furthermore, Milosevic was not even tried, Milosevic is innocent because his sentence was not handed down, I don't know why they would rehabilitate him when he wasn't convicted. What, was he on vacation? ) Furthermore, the powers of this law cease with the borders of Serbia. The powers of this law are only for the citizens of Serbia, for the courts of Serbia. (Verica Radeta, from the post: For the citizens of Serbia – he said well! That's right for the courts that tried in this country. But, simply, sometimes we play "tore," so we don't know what it's about, but we actually know very well. Indeed, there were people who were innocently killed in the justice of God. That time was passed by lawlessness in the period until the new communist government stabilized. So, I'm going to make an example out of my neighborhood. Mihajlo Jevdjevic, the protah pribojski was taken sometime at the end of the war in 1944 or 1945, allegedly to court and on the way liquidated. Therefore, his descendants, and he has only one son who died these days at a deep age, at the age of 93 and was a famous professor of Columbia University and an expert in the United Nations, a well-known geologist, etc., suffered for the reason that he could not come to this country, because his father was liquidated on the justice of God. This is the law that wants to correct these historical injustices. Someone was just talking about Apis and Black Hand. So the communists did a review of the Thessaloniki Process and I don't know why they did it, and then they rehabilitated Apis. And they didn't do it because they loved Apis, but they wanted to blacken King Alexander, because Apis was convicted for allegedly preparing an assassination on King Alexander, which was never proven and possible that he really died in some unlit black hole, etc. Once again, I point out -- those people who were killed because ideologically disagreed with the new order, and that new order that was governed by violence was communism, and we have to admit it. There is no comparison between the violence that has been committed by communism with the alleged monarch-fascist dictatorship of King Alexander, as the communists have told us. That's not true, it can't be brought straight at all, for the simple reason that King Alexander fell as a fascist victim. King Alexander was liquidated by a Ustasha conspiracy, she was behind that liquidation. Why would the bishops liquidate their ideological allies? Once again, I appeal that, simply in this matter, we have a good will and that everything that has been done against freedom, human rights and their property must be replaced. After all, this congregation has adopted the Law on Lustration in the preceding term, and it does not apply. At this moment, this law will, if adopted, be applied and it will serve as some replacement of the previous law. After all, if this one is not adopted, then the previous law can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24765	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24766	I think the Rules of Procedure have been severely injured, and I do not insist on voting because if I mention a historical person, at least three MPs have mentioned it before me, none of them should have the right to replication. But maybe this gives me a chance to explain my views a little more, or to comment on others. So now I hear the government is not killing its associates, and you are accusing Milosevic of killing Vuk Draskovic, his best associate. What would that suit Slobodan Milosevic? Or, you told me that Milan Nedic was killed without a verdict, and then you said – Slobodan Milosevic was innocently killed. So why isn't he buried in the Alley of the Giants, that the former president of the state who was innocent isn't buried with military honors? What was not exposed to his body in the Federal Assembly, where they exhibit? It's my story about the double standards you have. You have double standards for all of us, for our children and for our children's children. I would like to correct that in Serbia, that standards apply to everyone. If you're going back in time, we'll never get back together, if you move forward, maybe we can. But if you return to the past and always glorify your positions as the only true and upright; only your own views of the world, of the people; those whom you say are worthy, and such may wherever they will, into heaven, in heaven. I already hear some of your like-minded men who immediately sent Milosevic to hell, without a terrible court, have ruled for themselves. I don't count Slobodan Milosevic at all, he was president of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I speak in principle. I would hate for you to accidentally try that with Vojislav Seselj, because then you would have a civil war in Serbia, you know that well. I would never forgive you for this behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24767	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Excuse me, MP Ivica Dacic. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24768	No, I answered the replica of Mr. Cirkovic, because when I spoke about this bill, he pointed out Milan Nedic, as an example of a man who was Prime Minister in occupied Serbia, not wanting to get into what kind of man he was, was he a good general, did he have credit before, did he help and rescue Serbs at the time of the German occupation? All that aside. The very fact that someone agreed to be Prime Minister in occupied Serbia, as well as his ministers, Mr. Cirkovic, absolutely does not allow him to be rehabilitated in any way. No one has the right to admit capitulation and occupation, and they did it. So, I absolutely confirm everything I talked about earlier, when I was saying that this law would be misused, that people who apparently cooperated with the occupier were rehabilitating. And that's no wonder, because today in Serbia and the world there are not so many countries that would like to occupy us, as many of those who would run to be their Prime Ministers and Ministers in those governments. And that's why it's nothing weird. I only ask that Milan Nedic not compare with Slobodan Milosevic, he was a man elected by this people twice in the presidential elections, voted for him by several million people, and do not insult this people and those who voted for him, as well as those who did not vote for him because he was the prime minister of the puppet government in the conditions of occupation. Slobodan Milosevic was the president of a state that tried to preserve its independence, its national and state interests and regardless of political connotations and political belongings to each of us, I don't think these comparisons are appropriate. As far as the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, as you know, Belgrade's city government has not allowed Slobodan Milosevic to be buried in the Alley of the Giants, although we believe he is the place. But, on the other hand, where he's buried, it's a giant alley. On the other hand, the city government also, or the new city authorities, did not allow Slobodan Milosevic's body to be exposed to some of the representative facilities; the Yugoslav Army did not allow it to be in the House of JNA or the House of the Yugoslavia; the Supreme Defence Council of Boris Tadic, Marovic and Vujanovic did not allow Milosevic to be buried with military honours. We tried several times, talked to the House of Trade Unions, the Sava Center, for the Federal Assembly was a necessary decision they did not want to vote on, and I must say that a solution was eventually found with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia to avoid Serbia shacking up with Slobodan Milosevic. Of course we think it's a big mess, but on the other hand, we need to make it clear which branches of government in Serbia did not allow it. So I wouldn't want to go further with Mr. Zirkovic about it. I suppose no one had bad intentions, but every historical personality is a person to itself. We are for the rehabilitation of all political convicts, but we are against the fact that through this law, someone who is an eclectic example of co-operation with occupiers can be rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24769	Mr. Zirkovic, are you looking for a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24770	Mr. Dacic spoke directly to me, so I didn't need to recognize myself. I just listened very carefully to what he said. Mr Dacic, there is really no need to attack Milan Nedic by defending Slobodan Milosevic, as I will not defend Nedic by defending Slobodan Milosevic. Let's be patient. Someone interested in the submission, probably after the adoption of this law, is seeking to rehabilitate Milan Nedic. It's been 61 years since his martyrly death. Let's wait about 50 years and it'll probably come to order and Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24771	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Let the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24772	Regardless of the differences, I think today is a big day in this assembly and that we can freely express our views, as we think of the bill of rehabilitation. In the context of this law, it can be seen that time is a "master's solution". I think this bill was supposed to be on the agenda at least 15 years ago in the congregation, but it's a good thing it's up today. A similar law was passed in Czechoslovakia in 1968, and some other Central European and Balkan states passed similar laws in 1991, 1992, 1993. When it comes to constitutional basis, I think it should be kept in mind that it is also in the Constitutional Charter, which says in Article 10 that the provisions of international human and minority rights and civil liberties applicable on the territory of Serbia-Montenegro are directly applied; then, in Article 16, we have the primacy of international law, it is said: "The ratified international agreements and the generalised rules of international law have a primate over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the rights of the Member States"; as well as the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which in Article 7 says: "Human and Minority Rights are guaranteed by international law". In addition, it should be recalled that on 9 May 1945 it is the Day of Victory over Nazism and that it is Europe's Day. Therefore, the waterhouse is very clear. Based on international agreements that have been ratified and the primates of international law, as well as on the constitution of Serbia and this law, if it is brought forward, and I hope it will, it cannot be expected that those who have been Quislins or committed crimes will be rehabilitated. This is about those who had certain ideas, certain thoughts, ideologies, and that's why they were killed. The problem was that earlier there was no opportunity for similar rights to be exercised, as Yugoslavia did not vote for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, it was abstentioned. According to some data, that's when a proposal came to the UN from Yugoslavia to enter the declaration and the right to establish a camp. It was removed from the procedure so it wouldn't be discussed, but the camps were formed. It is even more interesting, however, that from 1945 to 1992 there were no sanctions against the Security Council against Yugoslavia for human rights violations, so these criteria are widespread. The state may also be the founder of the UN, such as Yugoslavia, because of its participation in World War II on the side of the Allies, have camps or until 1948, harsh accounts with political opponents and non-sanitarys without sanctions. However, I would like to remind you of some publicly disclosed items, some information that is publicly available. In 1951, Aleksandar Rankovic revealed that, according to the FNRJ MUP studies, by 1949, 47% of citizens were innocently deprived of freedom and under investigation. In Serbia, by 1949, about 49%; in Slovenia 39%; in Bosnia 51%, etc. Later, in 1966, at the Brion Pleum, it was revealed what the service was doing, the head of which it was headed. In addition, from 1990 to 2000, authorities allowed so much data to be published from that period to show tolerance. There was no ban on any books, magazines, publications that revealed human rights violations. There were even doctoral dissertations, publicist works, a question of what value it was, so that time also imposed thoughts on this law. Since there were some tones that deserved a review, I would remind you that in the history books of the primary and secondary schools of the 1990s, we have been able to read since 1993 that there were two anti-fascist movements in Serbia: one partisan and one Yugoslav army in the country. It was all revealed by the educational authorities. In bookstores and today you have both domestic and foreign authors who wrote about it, so that's something that the authorities of the '90s have freely revealed. I really think it was an expression of freedom and that many could reveal what they couldn't do until the '90s, so I welcome it, and I think it was a great contribution to tolerance and disclosure of data that many couldn't find out. In addition to the fact that a large number of people were killed because of their beliefs and convicted for verbal-political delinquency, such as, say, the crime of hostile propaganda, which was so called for, that a large number of people, I think even in earlier councils there were MPs who were responsible for it, were sentenced to long-standing prison sentences. The law was changed in 1959 only because of one man - Milovan Gilas, so a syntagma was introduced: a malicious and untrue display of opportunity. Thousands of people were then condemned for offering valuable courts, their opinions through a value court on the system, politics, and opportunities. The same goes for harming the state's reputation, even causing national, religious and racial hatred to be used to deal with political opponents, especially the crime of spreading news. We should keep in mind a large number of people who were merely responding because of their opinions. In addition, I would like to remind you that there have been mixed criteria in recent decades, so people with different biographies took different positions in power, which should be kept in mind. For example, Branko Mikulic, who was the champion of the Ustasha youth in Bugojn, reached the post of SIV President. The man from the Hitler Jugend organization was Stane Dolanc, a later senior state official, but he had Aunt Lydia Šentjurc, who before the end of the war pulled him out of the situation, as well as an uncle who was Boris Kruger, head of the National Security Office for Slovenia, so the man had a chance to get far. I don't know if my aunt and uncle had Branko Mikulic, but he was the prime minister. I would remind you that the second Prime Minister – Veselin Djuranovic was a Chetnik, until 1943 he was in Chetniks, there are photos from war facts, where it is evident that he is not exactly a church choir guy. His interior minister in the Chetnik organisation was Dobroslav Culafic and Budimir Soskic. The information was disclosed that they were on the payroll of the Italian authorities, so it wasn't some obstacle to progress. So time is a master's solution. Be tolerated. I think this law should be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24773	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger Borko Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with all the effort and effort, and otherwise I belong to that kind of people to be tolerated, which I am, I don't think this law should be passed. It has already been said that the Rehabilitation Act, which was proposed here, does not have the support of the SPS and is against it. In two ways, I'll try to explain why we're against it. I'd like to repeat two sentences taken from Mr. Secretary's presentation. First, we want a democratic state in which there will be no enemy because of a different opinion. Secondly, it is necessary to bury axes and trenches in order for Serbia to move forward. I declare in advance that I am absolutely for both sentences. I'm asking if there's anyone who's against those sentences, but that's how it's declared, because it's not disputed that we'll agree that everyone who's been killed for political reasons should be rehabilitated. Let's argue about who they are, who got hurt for political reasons. That's the problem with this law, not sufficiently explained. It is not disputed that everyone will agree that we should unite once in this Serbia, at least on the most fundamental state and national issues, etc. I remind you that in 1998 a Declaration was brought to the Serbian Assembly on National Unity, where it was defined how it would work, but it is controversial that in practice it seems very difficult for us. After that, after this argument and this sentence by Mr. Minister, Serbia is never more divided. They're making us out in every way possible. One of them belongs to the so-called so-called. The democratic bloc, and others are a non-democratic bloc. Some are members of a former regime, others are members of a new good regime. One is The Hague, one is Anti-Has, one is for Europe, the other is not, and of course, all of these are without any foothold in any facts. So, Mr. Minister, I absolutely support your approach that no one is allowed to suffer politically and not share, but this law does not offer that. This law offers that we have no clear way of doing it. It's not a question of who the Rehabilitation Act should apply to, it's supposed to rehabilitate innocent people, I guess that's not controversial. Let's argue about it, and from the experience of the past months or a year we've had who's innocent, who's watching it, etc. It is not disputed that anyone who is innocent should be rehabilitated, anyone who is wronged should be corrected, but it is contentious that this law does not offer such a thing. By reason of the law, this is actually ideological law, because it replaces one another. You see, the law has been very clear since it was applied, since 6 April 1941. I don't get into why it's not before, but it's practically going to apply, and that's what it doesn't say, until 1945, because it all comes down to it, discussions and explanations talk about that period. It is not disputed that anyone who has suffered for political reasons is rehabilitated, but what we had a year and a few days ago when this assembly has established by law what scientists, professions, historical institutes are supposed to do, is that it is also a winning opportunity to politically suffer because ideological reasons are at stake. I guess it's pretty clear to everyone that the ideological difference between the Quisling and the Fascism fighter. This law now allows them to be rehabilitated for ideological reasons. I'm not saying that that's what the promoter intended, I'm just saying that there's a possibility that something like this might happen to us that the occupiers will be rehabilitated, because for ideological reasons they've been co-workers. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I'm asking if political persecution is when 40,000 people in 2000 are violently fired from work, just because they belong to the SPS. Is that political persecution? Is political persecution when thousands of crisis headquarters are formed, they take over and take over companies, institutions, just because some of the SPS were there. Whether it's political persecution, or how to find the measure to apply to everyone. Since 2000, how many criminal charges have been manufactured, how many have been running and asked for reasons to support it. And today, it stands still in the stage of the investigation, five years later. I read yesterday in the paper that Mr. Batic damaged the state by a million euros. Is that not true for him, because if the procedure is initiated, five-six NGOs will be raised with five-six members, in five-six newspapers, there will be a big chase and then they will say it is political persecution. So there's the essence of our problems, what's political persecution. Will that apply to all those who died in 2000, when the Socialists were mass-injured. I'm asking directly. It's about why we're expressing suspicion. Because, unfortunately, in Serbia, every government is passing laws while it is in power. All that was before was no good. As soon as it comes to power, the first thing to be done – the names of the street are changed, and one is deleted, they determine that some other giants are both in order and today. You see, the second direct question, Mr. Minister, what is the relationship between this law and the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families? In particular, Article 15 of the Law, you know that this Assembly was then formed mostly only for that law, which I personally don't mind, obviously, that people have found themselves. The amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, which was first amended by the Second Law, has been amended, because the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters regulates who is a fighter, and the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Serbian, determines only the conditions for some social issues. Do you know that Article 15 has been adopted, despite the fact that there are strong verdicts, that it will apply. Now I ask you, when these proceedings come to court, the court rejects the motion, what will happen to this, which will apply? You see, for all these reasons, we don't think there's any guarantee that innocent people really think they're rehabilitating, that wrongs are being wronged, but they simply want to be reduced to one period, that one ideology is being replaced by another. Of course, she's the first to do nothing, and this second one is democratic, modern, etc. Nothing here has been given as a guarantee that the same archaic will be taken towards all. The final question here is a simple procedure, if I may say so, that when a request for rehabilitation is rejected, whoever seeks has the right to appeal to the Supreme Court. I'm asking you, why is that? If everyone, as you have predicted, has the right to initiate proceedings, if the proceedings are public, why is it that someone is not given the right to appeal to the Supreme Court and when a request for rehabilitation is accepted? Why don't you, for example, let me who I'm living witness to what's being solved in court to say - that the acceptance of the rehabilitation request is not true, that's a lie. Which is why this possibility is not given, but only the possibility that, if the complaint is rejected, he can appeal? Of course, if I don't owe you any more, my colleagues have done enough, and for these reasons we don't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24775	The word has been given to MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, have been told a lot about history here, and neither is the National Assembly the place where history is written and determined, nor is any history true and true. After all, ten days ago, we were convinced that the historical myth we all learned about was, I'm talking about the 27th March demonstrations, broken by an authentic recording of that time and where history itself was shown to be misleading. On the other hand, however, the National Assembly is a place to correct injustice, an injustice committed in the name of justice. They said that justice is equality, and justice is not equal. If God wanted us all to be equal, then he would have made us all equal, so when they saw that it was impossible for everyone to be equal, by raising them to a higher level and improving the state, society and every single person, they decided that all those who were above them would be brought down to a lower level, so anyone who was smarter, more educated, more intelligent, who had more land for a few acres, politically persecuted, arrested, some killed. We at the DSS have always been determined to fight for justice, and justice is also to correct the injustice that was committed on behalf of this country, i.e. on behalf of the country that preceded this country. The fact is that injustice to some is corrected. It is corrected by history and society towards those they have all heard of. An injustice has been corrected against Slobodan Jovanovic, probably one of the largest Serbian political thinkers of the 20th century; according to Bishop Nikolai, who was not allowed to return to the country, was named an occupier’s associate; there are thousands of those farmers, workers, traders, citizens, craftsmen, who are persecuted, arrested, murdered and tasked by the National Assembly to correct the injustices we have done. A few days ago, we could read in the press how in England the heir of a First World War soldier also fought for justice. In 1916, a soldier on the western front who then fought against the forces of Germany and Austria, a British army soldier was shot by the same army and indicted as a deserter, even though he experienced what today would be called war stress. He simply wasn't mentally able to return to the front. He was then shot like a deserter. Today, the British Parliament and the British government are discussing that the injustice that was done to him at the time is corrected, because injustice does not go out of date and it does not matter whether it was done two years ago, as some here say, 10 years ago or 50 years ago, it is important that our task to correct this injustice. Why? For the sake of the future, if we have corrected the injustice against those mentioned here, against the communists who participated in the work of the Communist Party during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and we know that this injustice has been corrected, because we know what merits and privileges the Spanish champions or champions of the Communist Party from the period before World War II and after World War II, then our task is to correct and wrong this other side, I am not only talking about the other side that was against the communists. This law also speaks of the injustice committed by the communists against those who wanted to be greater communists than them, so in 1948, all those who were for Stalin were also unjust in political processes sent to prisons. It's not about groups to correct injustice, it's about individuals, the citizens of this country that the state has committed, and the state's task is to take care of citizens and protect civil rights. Only if we correct the injustice can we build a fair democratic and modern society. Why the courts? For the term of office of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and here the present minister and mandate of the power of the DSS who is a lever, the established driving lever of this government, we have led the courts in the Republic of Serbia to be independent. The independent judiciary is able to decide by the letter of this law on whom injustice has been committed and how to correct it. It is not about correcting injustice against those who worked with the occupier, but about correcting injustice against those who were marked in the name of justice and equality, mostly as enemies of the people and the state, and neither were they, nor were they related to ideology, but all they wanted was for them to live peacefully in their own country and on their own property. The DSS will vote in favour of this law and calls on all other parliamentary groups to support it, for Serbia's future, for the sake of correcting injustice against our citizens, for individuals who have suffered injustice on behalf of this country, and I call on all MPs to vote on their conscience to overcome injustice and to correct what was wrongfully done to individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24777	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. After your presentation, I'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24778	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, of course, according to the good practices that the opposition, or opposition political organisation, will not vote for the government's proposal, not because we reject the very idea of rehabilitation in principle, it could sometimes bear the elements of justice, and talk about some Slobodan Jovanovic, Laza Kostic, some other people, I think there is no doubt, although the essential rehabilitation of these people has already been done. So in the past 15 years, Slobodan Jovanovic has de facto become our most experienced historian, sociologist and lawyer and his theory of reasoning has become the most famous in our legal and sociological circles today, and at the same time, thanks to the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, it also happened with Laza Kostic. But what this law makes is some kind of solution that no one can say is good. Why? The essential reason the SRS will not vote for this law is arbitration in the decision of the district courts. In fact, people don't think it's some big law, because it's a law of eight members, where it's very lapidary to talk about how those who have been or haven't been punished and deprived of freedom or some other rights should be rehabilitated. Now the question is who makes the decision and why some other things aren't done. You still have a criminal lustration law in legal traffic, and why criminally? That's what Serbian citizens should know, and I'm sure you know it, that law is criminal, because it says: we, as a government, are going to deal with those we don't like, because we're going to estimate that they once violated human rights, even though they didn't violate any existing law at the time. A number of key legal principles are being violated – about zeroum crime, zero points of the son's position, and above all someone cares, it is difficult for you to pass a law on the termination of the law. You want me to tell you why? Because you're afraid of being attacked by yellow, so these are still bile, or I don't know which one. Is there anything else you want me to tell you? It's those who drive us to stadiums, some of their cultural editors in certain newspapers, some Vlajcic, I listened to him at B92, he says he should put us all in the stadium, fence us with wire and not let us go anywhere. That's what he says to you in the Time List, even sharper, but he's a man for some special purposes, there's no way they can help in white. People there are serious, they're serious doctors and they're serious about these problems, but in this case they can't help. For that Pancic guy or whatever his name is, he suggested the same thing, but let's count, he's incompetent, he's not gonna help. This first one is the calculating and parliamentary majority that declared itself to be the law in this congregation, all of which were reasonable. You're all competent, and that's why you keep that law in legal traffic. I have to tell you and ask you, who's going to decide what's political persecution and what's not. Will Vojislav Seselj be rehabilitated because he was sentenced to two, so it was increased to three months, because he held the assembly, violated public order and peace, because he rose on a bench in a park 30 cm tall, when police started beating everyone around him, whether he was rehabilitated or not? Let me ask you, will those who have been arrested by the criminal DOS regime be rehabilitated on the streets of Belgrade when they attended parental meetings with their children, and are now sentenced to the most severe sentences of prison in The Hague tribunal. It's about Milomir Stakic and a lot of other people. Will these people be rehabilitated? It won't be, because you're going to teach us a little bit more in textbooks and readings that it's best to co-operate with Carla del Ponte and race which minister or representative of the government will love Carla del Ponte more. Did you see what you did? You're talking about rehabilitation, about justice and justice, and Serbian citizens haven't heard of the next data, but it's good to hear the National Assembly, just so I don't get the wrong name. After the funeral, Slobodan Milosevic, who was accompanied by a Lieutenant Colonel of the Pancic Milisav Military Academy, who is otherwise a man of poverty, lives in a barracks with a wife who has no job, retired by that bandit at the head of the Ministry of Defence and your authority, because you are retired today at 40 years of age, so that criminals and thieves can do whatever they want in this country. Is that rehab, is that the justice you stand for? Is that your principle of justice that you stand for? Is it your principle of justice, to ask you, to treat Dragoljub Milanovic, what it is called, what it is called, the one who stole social and state property, Veran Matic and his television, and keep quiet, because Dinkic gave him the building for hire there, but we'll see exactly when the payments arrived and how much, I had all the data until five months ago, and soon I'll get new ones. Then the authorities will talk about it, because you're afraid of your own shadow, the law, because you're afraid of everything, you can't get a man out, even though they've given everyone a weekend off now, they can't even have a weekend away, because he's your political prisoner. It wasn't him who bombed RTS, it was the ones you've been courting and licking all day long, they've bombed RTS, they've killed 16 people. Why don't you arrest them when you're so brave for justice and rehabilitation. And it wasn't Milanovic convicted because he was involved and because he was guilty of the death of 16 people, no, it's not a crime, you know that, Mr. Palalic, he's guilty of causing general danger, because he didn't follow orders 37, and we don't exactly have proof that it was an order 37, because it burned in five-octobaric events, so we brought two revolutionaries to confirm it. Who are you kidding? It comes to give you an order from the one who gave the order to attack the RTS, an order to kill people, which today gives you orders and boast that it is the best on the globe, the militia. For him, the red carpet, and this one -- you're going to go to jail, you can't even have a weekend off, because it's going to grab 500 of them. Have you seen the privileged position, listen, in prison, and the privileged position, and you will play the texts through your newspaper: "In The Hague as in Hayat". The Seselj Army has been out of power for three days. Good for you, so send your men on a plane, arrest, arrest anyone who gets here, people sell peppers, so cuffs not guilty or indemnity, anything they can do to you. In these yellow ones, even more. He wants to beat the messengers with a stick, this singer, lost. He'll beat up the messengers with a stick. The Messengers were chosen by the people, and no one chose him to steal, steal, and do what they do. No one picked him anywhere. He can do anything. Is that your justice, your rehabilitation? This was about working with the occupier. People I'm not sure were working with the occupier were accused. I know a lot of people, and I'm sure they're working with the occupier today, whoever you want the occupier with. (Verica Radeta, from the place: Zoran Djindjic. ) Listen – Zoran Djindjic. Who doesn't cooperate today? They race, their heels don't come out as much as they race to show that they're getting closer and higher. (Verica Radeta, from the place: I Draskovic. ) Then they will still support them in every way possible, and they will say: “This is what they used to cooperate with. And what do you do today in every place on the globe of the earth? Everything. Toma Nikolic says -- if they take away Kosovo and Metohija, it will be an occupation, so it says the Constitution of Serbia, it is only your problem that you do not read the Constitution, as well as the problem of those poor people who get their hands on certain anti-Serbian media, who are terriblely, declared, so what else, loves you mother smart. What else, but an occupation, when someone takes away a piece of your territory. No, we'll continue to cooperate, steal some more of our territory. It is few KIMs, that they may take away the city of Vojvodina, the district of Raska, and even then, let us not fight against the people. Don't tell them it's wrong. Then it might occur to them to separate the south from Serbia. I don't know what else he's going to do to someone else's head and come here and say it. I understand Mr. Ispanović, the man came out and talked about his people. He didn't say until the end. You didn't say that Rukavina was the one who commanded it, and he wasn't the Serb who commanded such things, etc. You have little silenced the numerous crimes that have been proven and confirmed over the Serb people. I understand what a man is saying, but I don't understand you. In this country, it appears to be the highest value of someone who will rehabilitate someone and someone to find guilty, the greatest criminals. You're afraid to say that. Yes, in this country some plague determines who killed in Serbia. Is it true or not, tell me? Why are you messing with the nation? Why are you making fun of us all? He says Chume - killed Natas Jovanovic, she went to prison for 40 years. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: That's what Chume said. Yes, he discovered a secret. You think it's funny. It's not funny, it's sad. Because the man is an associate. Whose associate? I know that the occupation associate is this war crimes prosecutor, the one who foams. Have you seen that pigeon, Vukcevic, that you can't tell him anything, because it's under the direct protection of certain ambassadors in Belgrade, who you can't say anything to. When that unfortunate man shows up, and he foams, and threatens everyone alive, then he goes on another course and comes back, and then he says, we need direct transfers, to see how the Serbs killed in Zvornik, Vukovar, to experience a little catharsis, to cleanse the Serbian nation, and I don't know what. Whoever arrests the doves of the scribes or the scribes of the pigeons, however, if he finds out that there are pigeons. We had all kinds of things in Serbia. There were generations raised on Old Man Vojadina. But this kind of scum that we have in Serbia today, I don't remember that we've had for many decades. We've always had those who, even during World War II co-operated with the occupier, had the biggest radio in Eastern Europe, Lily Marlene, Serbs worked. We've got those who have our senses about democracy today, they're climbing up the stage with the yellows when the election comes. One of them played in the "Soldatten" home in Belgrade. One of her closest relatives plays at the Ustasha theatre "Sobrioz" for Pavelic, Dosena and other Ustasha chiefs and chiefs. And today they're for Europe. They love Europe very much, and we're all crazy and silly, so they're going to explain to us how we should go to Europe, like the one with the fecal stick that's going to lead us to Europe. And that "Grbavica" is his best movie. That's right, everything he's got against the Serbs, that's how it's gonna be. Well, then how about this wolfevic, this one's your prosecutor, come on, you'll have some judge here, some valid one will invite him to a college, here, now you'll be judging. What are they gonna say? They'll say, "Don't let that Milanovic go for a living." He ordered us Javier Solana not to let him go. The one who didn't bomb must have ordered what he bombed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know what to tell you. I know you're thinking what I'm thinking. I know you know what I know. I don't understand just because you can't say it and do it. I don't understand that. Maybe there's something I don't know, I don't get it, and I don't get it. The streets are changing in this town, and you've seen how. When you talk about rehabilitation, no more General Zdanov, no more Marshall Tolbuhin. Do you know what the explanation is? Idiotic. How is it just the City Hall, otherwise full of people like that, and above all thieves, can bring. He says there's no way to get street names by the commanders. That's their official explanation. They can't name the streets by their commanders. I'm just waiting for when they're going to take place instead of -- Serbian rulers, being -- Cumetov and street buddies. Then they'll show their true face. Our associate and assistant is the man who contributed to Serbia's release, our associate is not General Zdanov, our associate is Ljubisa Buha. That's what it looks like, Serbian citizens. They say, we have, as far as rehabilitation is concerned, sort of, I don't mean in the legal sense of words, an example of how much you want. After World War II, Joseph Broz Tito rehabilitated the worst Ustasha criminals. Some of them have become, if you will, the most famous, recognized people of the latter Yugoslavia. Some of them were even great goalkeepers, the best players of a Yugoslav sports society here in Belgrade. One, was that so, Mr. Kojcic, was a goalie for several seasons. They were Ustashas, not natives, from Valok, to which I don't know. I know you do. They were the worst Ustashas. They're welcome to Belgrade to score goals here and become world-renowned and I don't know what else. Albian, sit down, don't throw it up. Stan Dolanc, the ideological predecessor of some in this room, Hitler Jugend, nothing, that can't be said to anyone, let's just keep quiet, pretend nothing happened. He can't go on forever, and they can't just bring judgments who he is or what he is. Now I'm telling you, and with that ending, I apologize for taking so long a break, you're talking about the crimes of the former regime. I don't know if you've noticed one thing, technically very significant, as far as I know, the former regime in this country is "yellow." Is that right? Yellow and you together, I mean, only then were the yellows in charge, and now you're you. There's no big difference, now they're the yellow reserve to the red, so you don't know who's going to run there sooner to back you up, etc. Now I ask you, how can you, you're so good that they're all racing who will. I'm lucky we're the only ones who won't, so be it, if you want. So we have a serious problem. The government, and that's what I want to point out to the people in Serbia, in that story, to the former regime, they don't really mean the yellow regime that's the former regime, whichever way you look at it, they think of those who want to ideologically pursue, or even physically destroy it. They think they've ruled as Tito for 88 years, and they attack their sincere and true opponents as a reaction, conservatives, cults, criminals, like this and like that, and no one's ever been convicted of anything. When they saw that they couldn't convict us for anything, then -- without a court, now we're going to lustration, and then we're going to do a fifth thing. Now I'm waiting for what Veran Matic, Sonja Licht, Natasa Kandic will think of, or I don't know who, waiting for what's next to be some brilliant European law. Shave them to the head because they don't support us, or I don't know what. That's why I'm ready, and I hear that some people are preparing such an organization, that I'm not involved in it. Yesterday I said, I pay the entire salary for DOS victims, I found two more people in my family, my brother agreed, and my father agreed, and they're going to pay the entire salary in the fund, and I know a lot of people who are going to help all the funds for the victims of the criminal DOS regime, because so much should be paid to people – from work, houses, apartments, anything else they took after October 5th, factories, fields, and everything else, to some and lives. We are not playing with saying that this is a direct regime, for Gavrilovic and some others, for Pantic, etc., as you are in advance blaming the previous regime. Yet we are serious people, we respect legal standards, we respect the laws and the Constitution of this country, but I am sure that this fund will have many people who want to help it, because there are so many victims of the criminal DOS regime that for tens of years it will be difficult to replace that year and finally get justice. And as you set forth, all I fear is that there will be more injustice, because you are those who speak of justice and righteousness, and yesterday you had no courage to stand up for a moment of silence to the man who led this land. It says how polite and serious you are and how those judges would behave, because they should look at you and say: it is a shame to stand for a minute of silence. And those officers who will be sent to someone's funeral will retire, even though they are 40 years old, you will only retire them because they think otherwise, which does not belong to those who represent the errand boy Carla del Ponte, such as Zoran Stankovic, Vuk Draskovic, Boris Tadic or his Nebojsa Krstic, called the "fecal pole", or I don't know who. That's why we're changing things in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24779	We're breaking up. I've been setting a break for an hour. Continuation is at 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will proceed with the afternoon session. Due to the shift of the order of MPs in the afternoon, the order of MPs from the MPs' lists is this: MP Mika Vlaović, then MP of the people, Verica Radet, then MP Goran Rakovac, then MP of Stevica Dedjanski. So, there's been a rotation because it's already moved to one place in the morning. Now the replica Mr Istvan Ispanovic sought at the end of the afternoon's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24781	Without wanting to argue with Mr. Vucic, who was saying something about my exposure, it is true that I did not want to mention who was guilty, in my opinion, of the death of the duchess Hungarians, so he said that at the time the commander in Vojvodina was Ivan Rukavina, a general who, in my opinion, was a war criminal. But I didn't want to talk about it. Also, Mr. Vukic said I wasn't talking about the victims of the Serb people. Yes, I was talking about Shaikash and I was also talking about a raid in Novi Sad and the victims, about 4,000 citizens at the time. I will now take the opportunity to say one more thing - between the Shaikas raid and the Novo Sad raid, a brave MP in the Hungarian parliament, Endre Bajci Žilinski, requires that what happened in the so-called ". Southern parts of Hungary, i.e. in Vojvodina. It is worth remembering that he had already raised his voice for crimes against the Serb people in the then southern regions of Hungary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24782	Mr. Ispanović, thank you for this good historical case. Here you are, MP Mika Vlaovic. Before I give you my word, just to inform all MPs, because of the importance of the laws that are on the agenda and the need for the Assembly to vote within the deadline, and yesterday the agenda has been extended by decision of the Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(4) and (5), we will extend the work by 20 hours at the latest today, and in case the debate on the third item of the agenda is concluded, no later than the end of the principle search of that point. Mr. Vlaovic, please and thank you for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, when I saw this bill, I thought clearly that it would pass with two or three discussions in the Assembly. But I was wrong. Immediately, divisions, hatreds, and old habits were manifested, so that we would not baptize certain things by the right name. I don't want to talk about whether it's going to equalize someone who's convicted of a war crime, I'd like to talk about that piece of work involving confiscation and compulsory ransom, the part that's done a good job in the Vojvodina villages. Only one piece of information that says that the people who were killed were not bourgeoises – 1119 capitalists in Serbia had a total of 84,000 hectares of the country. Divided on them, 1119, that's 73 acres. In Vojvodina, the country ranges from two to three thousand euros per hectare. It's a good car that's now some new-compromised young tycoon with no neck, with his head coming out of his shoulder, shaved and cut off, terra. Many of those who pulled a mustache, confiscated and harassed the Dukean and Serbian hosts, shouting that they were towers, rotten capitalists, state enemies, all the names that existed, and could stick to them as a nakaradian, got it. Most of these households, defeated by seized property, were disappointed in agriculture and abandoned, most of them are now proletarians. Many executioners of that time have now rotted rich people and they don't mind. Many of those who are expected to correct this historic injustice have a villa on Dedinj that costs 2-3m euros, which is thousands of hectares of the first-class Vojvodina country in Europe. What we do, what we argue and what we fight about, I don't believe it suits the citizens of Serbia, I don't believe it fits Serbia and our friends. I'm sure he's responding to our enemies. So I ask you to gather your strengths, vote for this bill. Nothing's scary about that. Let us overcome these madnesss and delusions, show that we are new Serbia, which pursues order, work, discipline and that will overcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24784	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then the Messenger of the People, Goran Rakovac, and the Messenger of the people, Stevica the Dedjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24785	On this break of ours just now, I hear TV B-92 praised the bill of rehabilitation a lot, and it's just a confirmation to me that we Serbian radicals are absolutely right not to vote for this law. As a matter of fact, we have nothing against rehabilitation, that's what all the colleagues in the SRS have said, but the way this law provides is simply impossible and would only lead to an even greater application of the law in the part where it could possibly be applied and would lead to even greater problems and deepening these bad relationships. In particular, I'm going to say something about each or almost every member of this law, because everyone really deserves a legal comment, first of all. Article 1, where rehabilitation for political and ideological reasons refers to the date of 6 April 1941, is really a logical question why it is this date, why it refers to everyone who has been once persecuted for ideological reasons, who has thought to be this very date, and in the light of the law, I have not seen a valid explanation of why it is so. Article 2 says that a request for rehabilitation can be submitted by any interested person. This is so wide, and essentially inaccurate, that it really doesn't know which way to eventually rehabilitate a person who's being persecuted for ideological reasons, if there's no direct heirs or if someone just doesn't think of looking for that kind of rehabilitation. So it remains permanently marked because no one has thought of it, no one has found their interest to initiate this procedure. This, Minister, you must admit, is very imprecise. In article 3, you predicted that the rehabilitation request was submitted to the District Court in Belgrade. Some special courts again, some special departments, special councils. Why just the Belgrade District Court? Do you, Minister, think the judges of the Belgrade District Court are more experts and fairer judges than the other judges in Serbia? I don't think so. I think there are good judges in Belgrade, and in all of Serbia, as I think there are bad judges in all of Serbia, as well as in Belgrade. So, there is no valid reason, nor a legally logical, nor legally justified, which is why only the Belgrade District Court, unless, of course, you have the intention of doing exactly what I said at the beginning, to do another special court that will judge both the grandmother and the uncles, at least by law, if you do not want another court like this council of war crimes, which has ruled for war crimes in Ovcara, based on statements by the witnesses of the associates, who did not respect the completely relevant evidence that pointed out precisely the fact that the witnesses of the associates committed a crime in Ovcara. The verdicts, that is, the whole procedure aimed at linking the crime in Ovcara with Vojislav Seselj and someone's intention to assist the court and the prosecution in the so-called. The Hague court, because they are aware there, and so are you here that there is no evidence against Seselj, or even better, that Vojislav Seselj did not participate in any criminal act and that there is no crime in his indictment either. In Article 4, you are saying that the application is decided by more than three judges, in a public procedure, as it collects documentation, a reasoned solution to the adoption or refuses to apply for rehabilitation. Nowhere in this, or in any of the existing laws, there is a decadent and clear indication of when someone can be rehabilitated or when they won't be. So, on the basis of which this reasoned solution will be made to adopt or reject rehabilitation, which are criteria, where it is prescribed, whether it is again just the will of the judicial council that will be set out for this in the Belgrade District Court, I think that's exactly what it is. In Article 6, in paragraph 2, you said that Serbia's Supreme Court is deciding on a complaint in excess of five judges. Of course, it's not controversial, but it had to be written and determined, this is still some kind of lex specialis, which is the deadline. Whether someone who is not recognised as rehab, who lodges a complaint with the Supreme Court, can wait until he dies without getting a ruling from the Supreme Court. I think this is also inaccurate. As for Article 7, I don't know why you thought your ministry needed in the Official Messenger to publish names and data on rehabilitated persons. Why doesn't a court that makes such a solution do so? The courts are otherwise advertised in the Official Messenger when it comes to the announcements of missing persons, the dead, the appointment of temporary agents, etc. So there would be no newspaper if the decision of the competent court was published in the Official Messenger, especially since you predicted that a single court in Belgrade would do so, so there is no need to collect anything throughout Serbia and I see no reason not to do so exactly this court. So, all these legal objections to the bill only confirm the political views of the SRS and our relationship to such a proposal and, in general, to the idea that someone who was born in the head should be passed such a law, i.e. that any law should be passed. It is important that the title states that it is the Rehabilitation Act, or the bill, to make it sound good even to those with B-92, and essentially this law does not solve anything that should be the subject of resolving such a legal rule. I can't see from this law how the victims of the petoctobar revolution will be rehabilitated. I don't see how a woman who got fired in the Ministry of Faith in the seventh month of pregnancy will be rehabilitated. In court proceedings, she was returned to work, but some kind of rehabilitation should be in place. I don't know how to rehabilitate a man who's got a solution about firing the Zemun municipality, without any explanation, at the time he was on sick leave. I don't know how to rehabilitate the person who in the Zemun municipality got the decision to fire, with the explanation of the secretary at the time that her radical presence irritated the new DOS leadership. Believe me, this is a quote. So, these things don't exist in your law, you don't care, you continued what you started while you were together in the big DOS, that the world began on October 5th, and that you were eventually once persecuted somewhere. Then one of the officials and officials from that extended DOS shows up and says he was persecuted, that for ideological reasons he couldn't settle down anywhere, and then shows up with some enormous wealth, against Dragan Gilas, whose 70 percent profit is his pure profit from what his agency earns. Where he earns it, how he becomes a rich man, if he's ever been persecuted as an unthinker of the former, as you like to say, regimes. Or, I don't know what kind of money Zoran Djindjic bought from companies in Serbia, with which he bought the Popovac cement factory, which was now inherited by Ruzica Djindjic in one part and is visiting it once a month. How could he make some money if he was persecuted as an ideological opponent of Slobodan Milosevic and those authorities at the time. So there's a lot of unresolved issues and topics that there's a lot to say about here, and what you've been trying to pin down in some seven eight members of the law really doesn't deserve attention. I listened to my colleagues today who said they would vote for this law, so there were calls to humanity, to morality, and I don't know what everything, and then I really wonder where those colleagues felt about humanity, where their morale was the day that we gave our mail to the former president of Serbia and Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic. Does this mean that someone who has not been elected to the DOS majority will never be in Serbia and cannot be recognised as a state official? Are you alone who are chosen by your constituents today by the MPs of the people, and we chosen by someone else, or by another group of people, much greater than yourselves, are not. My dear colleagues, you must have the same archaic. Let me ask you another question, where was your humanity and morality yesterday when we suggested that an emergency procedure discuss resolution on the violation of basic human rights in the Hague tribunal of Serb prisoners there. Of course, first of all, we think about the violation of the human rights of Serbian Radicals President Vojislav Seselj, who in The Hague tribunal for more than three years survived all kinds of tortures, from being banned for several months from communicating with family and party friends until the last one that happened three days ago, to shut down his electricity in that part of the box where he was placed. Where he was then, my dear colleagues, morale, and where you care about humanity and the citizens of Serbia and human rights and freedoms. When I spoke of the lack of your morality and inhumanity, when we gave our respect to Slobodan Milosevic for a minute of silence, I am sorry, there is no colleague here who spoke, to ask him why he did not stand up when the rest of us got up, because he tried here today to give us a lecture as a young and newly-roasted MP that the British Parliament is taking care of individual citizens' rights, that even parliament is dealing with the human rights of an individual there who has not returned from some of his personal views to some war. So, an example of the British Parliament here is presented to us in the light of what this colleague was talking about today, and our Parliament, by your conduct and our Rules of Procedure, has led to the lowest limits. So, I urge you to consider this bill, not to adopt a text that, believe it or not, will be very quickly here at work, because it is as it is – it is inapplicable, and it is not the first time that we warn you to pass and propose inapplicable laws and whenever we say it, you smile, as some are smiling now, and you turn your head when after a few months the same law comes here on the agenda with changes and additions, and of course in these changes and additions is regularly what we say, before the law is passed. So, I repeat, our parliamentary group will not vote for this law, because we do not think that this law will rehabilitate all those who have been punished and persecuted for their different ideological attitudes, because you are now persecuting such attitudes, that is, because most of your parties do not have an ideological position. But you had to do it more precisely with this law so that we could apply it tomorrow, and the same way you won't be able to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24786	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski, then the Messenger Dragoljub Kojčić, and the apostle Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24787	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, although I have listened carefully to the discussions of my predecessors, believe me that both of them, and those who, for and against, have only assured me that this law should be voted upon. Moreover, the lack of arguments of those who challenge this law, for whatever reason it should be made, whether they criticise certain provisions of this law, are more than strong in that direction and in order for the law, as proposed today to the National Assembly, to be passed because it should be one of the stone and turning points in Serbia's recent history. Why am I saying this? Let's go back to the '90s, go back to the beginning of parliamentary life in Serbia, and remember that almost all the parties that were formed in their programmes were treating material on rehabilitation. Everyone was talking about that there are whole groups of people in our country who, for these or those political or ideological reasons, have been deprived of some of the basic human rights in their lives. Some were deprived of their freedom, most of their property, some of their lives. We have an obligation as a parliament, and this state has an obligation to its citizens, to pass a regulation that will resuscitate these people, which the state will admit to making a mistake in a certain period of its existence in relation to individual citizens. For reasons of passing this law, it says that one reason is that this is a question of democratic Serbia. I would agree with that, but I would add that, apart from this being a commitment to democratic Serbia, this is, in my opinion, much more of the obligations of host Serbia, people's Serbia, for the simple reason that ideological and political persecutions in the past have mostly come from Serb hosts. They did not come under these persecutions by those who were on some highest scale at a given time, nor those who were on the lowest. Many speakers before me, especially from Vojvodina, mentioned here what happened and happened in Vojvodina during the ransom, after World War II. There was nothing better in central Serbia either. Some of the colleagues here have disputed this law, instructions show that the law will make new divisions, that it will reunite Serbia. I do not share that opinion, and I would like to show on a concrete case why such a law, with such provisions, a court procedure and a solution that the court should make as prescribed, is absolutely necessary to Serbia. I knew a wonderful man who was sentenced to 14 years in prison for purely ideological reasons. At the time of his conviction, he was 18 years old. He was a high school graduate, and given the circumstances, I say, he didn't even have time to raise his degree, he was sentenced to 14 years in prison, and all 14 served in Sremska Mitrovica. He was pardoned twice during the prison, because his jailers knew that he had been unjustly convicted and that it was unfair there, but he twice refused pardon. I asked him, Uncle Pero, what's the reason you refused pardons, and you were a young man? He made it very clear to me: son, if I had accepted pardons, I would have admitted that I was guilty of what I was not guilty of, I would have confessed to a verdict that was unfair, which was ideological and political, not based on justice and justice. He lasted 14 years, got out of prison, got married, got married, got a family, retired, but unfortunately, he didn't live to see a law like this. During the nights, I talked to him about this matter in the '90s, and I kept asking him – what would be a satisfaction for those 14 years that he spent in prison as a young man, from 18 to 32 years of age? He wasn't mad at those who put him in prison, he forgave everyone. Some of them even saw after that, but he wanted satisfaction, not so much more for himself, than for his family, children, and grandsons. This law is treating cases like this right now. I am obliged to say, this is about Mr. Petar Jovanovic, the late, from the Old Village next to the Great Plan, who in the 1990s did not want to join any political party, remained faithful only to the country of Serbia, the Serb people and was the first man to set up a Montenegrin movement in Serbia and the first president of the movement after World War II. Some colleagues have mentioned Article 5 here, the way decisions are made, and how the court ruling should be. The very example that I have cited shows that the law has hit the point, because it is very clear in Article 5: "The solution that adopts the application for rehabilitation determines that the decision taken against a rehabilitated person is nothing since the moment of its adoption and that the zeroes are all its legal consequences." In the event of an administrative decision or if no decision has been made, the court finds that the rehabilitated person was a victim of persecution and violence. It is very important, and I think the essence of this law is to determine whether all these people, persecuted for ideological and political reasons, were victims of the regime during a certain period. I would not now say if it was those who were killed from April 6, 1941 to 1944, those who were killed afterwards, or those who were persecuted until yesterday by their party thinkers, and after the break-up in the same party opened "naked islands", or who suffered others, because there were injuries after that. All these people are victims of the state and the regime that was in power at some point, and they deserve to be recognised by the court's decision by the right of sacrifice, as well as the right to full rehabilitation, because by the very fact that these decisions were void and that no legal fact can be produced from the moment they were made, and not from the moment the court ruling is now made, it's just a real rehabilitation. Everything else would be an act of mercy, and someone else is giving these people, and I'm afraid that way they would once again confirm their guilt that never existed. All of us, therefore, agree that there was persecution, and those who disputed this law, say – there were political and ideological persecutions, there were dungeons of people who didn't deserve it. Then why is the passing of this law challenged? Our people have the saying: "Whosoever fears the sparrows, that grain does not sow." This government is not afraid of sparrows, it has sown grain, the law will be passed in this assembly and to the welfare of many who will not directly feel its blessings, since in the meantime because of their age they are already deceased, but their descendants, their children and grandchildren will be able to show judgments that their ancestors are freed from carrying the blame they never deserved. The DSS has had such a law in its programme since its founding, on several occasions it has already published similar texts. The DSS MPs will be very pleased to vote for this law and we are convinced that a huge number of Serbian citizens will regain their dignity under this law. By restoring their dignity, we restore dignity to both the government and the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24788	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24789	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have heard from the predecessors, we Serbian radicals, in voting day, will not be present when this is decided. You've heard several times all the reasons presented by the SRS, but one of the basic remarks, more of us said that, I'll take my right to repeat, therefore, the illogicalness and question that we think is very meaningful. So, who decided that the rehabilitation was valid since 6 April 1941 and the logical question, how that date was elected, as long as it was valid, whether it was in advance and so on. So, look, before 1941, communists were killed because of their ideas. I'm not talking about it, I certainly can't be a member of some communist ideas, but I'm talking about people being convicted of ideas and who will now, i.e. Whether they will be valid or why they will not be able to be rehabilitated. Also, a question arises what will happen to Apis, Stojadinovic, who will rehabilitate the victims from October 5th, as they are victims of crisis headquarters, remember those infamous crisis headquarters that burned and burned Serbia after October 5th. So, once again democratic -- you divide the people into the likes of those who are not. The question is, how long are you going to do it? What this law will do, in addition to sharing the people, what else, may be your goal, perhaps your wish, surely, is, I can't argue, to open up here and The Hague tribunal. Free Milosevic was kidnapped by some of you, and Vojislav Seselj was accused of lying there on justice, and as you heard the other day, he lost power. Now where's the concern for all the citizens, what are you trying to introduce yourself as some kind of conceit and where is the help of the state, the system? The simple question is, how are you going to solve any problem under this law, by what criteria? In your opinion, so that it may be good for those whom you have appointed, and all others are bad. Well, then, only your contemplators were right, they were clean and untouchable, and the rest, although the people chose them, were against your will, what it is, but the double standard you're trying to apply here. By your standards, and we've seen them, it's also that you send someone to hell and there are standards important, not the law, because you're the government, so when you tell DOSs of October 5th that they're the government, they really think so. They think they're important, that they're smart, that the people love them, so they make crisis headquarters, as I mentioned earlier. I have to ask you if you have recently gone out among the people, into the street, to the store, to the market, where Mr. Dinkic sends the beatings to take the goods from the poor, because that's what's happening in Serbia right now. Do you dare go out at all, see how the worse lives in Serbia? Most of you probably don't know what this is about. The message is that you don't share the people anymore, you're a smaller part of that people, much smaller, almost negligible, so come on, let's go to the elections if you don't think so, that we all go to the citizens' court together, let the chairs go, nothing bad will happen to them, we promise, we'll keep the chairs. Don't share the people again in the name of the people. I have to say, because of the people, not because of you, that when you work on behalf of the people, the factories don't work, and when you work on behalf of the people, then the peasant doesn't know what he's going to do; we have expensive electricity, gas, oil, compare with the prices of just a few years ago; we have a million unemployed; in addition to all the write-offs you promised us, we have 15 billion euros in debt; thieves are businessmen, and some become experts. Don't work on behalf of the people anymore, on behalf of reconciliation, division, don't work at all, just go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24790	The People's Messenger Dragoljub Kojcic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the beginner at the conducting studies asked his pedagogogogog how it could be explained as soon as possible, this one said that it was a skill to put an accent on which the cord would be placed and that the interpretation of the music work depends on whether you put an accent on the first or the last chord. There's been a lot of discussion here. I think most of them were putting an accent on the first cord, and I'm going to start from the first, so I can put that final musical and meaningful political accent on the last one. Well, at least I expected to have to remember my own childhood and my own family's biography. As a child of those who were declared enemies of the people, who were persecuted by the Germans, the Gestapo, and later by the Partisans, I was a citizen, as they say, of the second order. So I was exposed to what could be called a systematic segregation in modern political language today. I well remember the term moral-political resemblance that put the whole class of citizens in a second-class position, including that they cannot get a certain job. For example, as a graduate philosopher, I worked as a night watchman, because I was not a moral-political figure. On the other hand, contrary to ideological confrontations, democracy is just trying to equate all citizens, to subdue ideology, i.e. Packs ideological differences into a unique system, in which all citizens will live in harmony, regardless of their ideological identity or ethnic origin, to say- national minorities or their religious background. Since I felt like a second-class citizen during my life, because I didn't have a moral-political resemblance, because it was also a legal category, I fought for the democratisation of society for one thing only – that no one would ever be subjected to segregation in that sense. So, I have the same human relationship, the same emotion, whether or not the man is a member of this party, of some back, of my party. People know that well. Here I even wanted to show this maligned human, simple human trait and friendly relationships with people who are different ideological beliefs. There is, for example, Mr. Busetic, can confirm that we always have a great conversation, and we have good human relations, or Mr. Peric. So the whole point is that we should all look together at the adoption of this law from the aspect of this last chord, or the future. Let's harmonize Serbia the more, let's not do what one of the participants in the Dayton negotiations said -- divide Serbs into Western Serbs, Serbs in Serbia, southern Serbs, and we'll get easier with them. I think it is democracy, which means a fair relationship with the past, in fact -- the condition of Serbia's power and all citizens in Serbia and Serbia's Serbs. Of course, I agree that we should have a very differentiated relationship with all phenomena. So I believe in the jurisdiction of the courts and in the competence of all decisions, that there is a differentiated relationship. I am absolutely referring to that remark that some of the speakers have been drawing attention to. It's just that I have a positive relationship. So, in order for no one to ever be segregated again, I think that through this kind of fair relationship to their own past, it's a debt to all of us, we can expect so much peace in the future. Just for the sake of it, because it's simply a superpolitical law in this case, please respect this reasoning and give your voice to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24792	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Let MP Nemanja Sarovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24793	Mr. Mihailovic, probably by chance she wanted you to chair now as we discuss the Rehabilitation Act, as the grandson of the murdered General Draža Mihailovic. But in all of this, it is also a good thing that you are now chairing, and you are no longer party to that, it is little to say by the disturbed Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, who, with Chetism and Uncle Draža, had nothing to do with anything, just so much to shingle on the Plain Mountain, year after year. As for what he's been doing, gathering certain paramilitary formations, and that's why Carli del Ponte is now being courted, because he's been called the noose -- the Hague indictment around his neck, that's something that's going to haunt him until the last day until he's drained, like every squeezed lemon, and until they write him the indictment he's running from, which would be said to be "the devil of the cross". That's why today, and you know it, since when we talk about this, you can, as a member of this family, think in the context of this law, and each and every one of us individually, with some of our cases in the family, like this, just before being told by Mr. Kojcic or what we've been up to all day. The creation of gaps amongst citizens – Serbs, above all today, when it is necessary to achieve so much demand and so much need for national unity, when here in the parliamentary benches there are people who live and today, in very difficult conditions in occupied Kosovo and Metohija, when MPs like Mr Buha, who is the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, in the refugee or fellow Radet, who had to flee from the Ustasha knife and cannot visit the grave of his ancestors, then you know that it is not right that people, primarily misdirected back 15 years of age, who knows, may have misdirected them for decades in their education, and above all, embodied and full hatred for those who speak differently and think, appear for the assembly speaker. Today we have had such examples, that they are making a list of Serbs to be rehabilitated, and they are not only wondering what this dead letter represents on paper and what these words mean that they mean nothing and which, at the very least, lead to confusion, not just descendants of people who, for ideological, political and other reasons, were persecuted, humiliated and in every way, destroyed their basic civilization and human rights, but what they say about future generations, or those who look at us today, whose eyes are on us. What I certainly know, and what you don't know, on this side of the ruling parties, is that when we speak, or any other representative of the SRS, I can count, and this is what the president Slobodan Milosevic, the Hague indictee, the president of our party – Prof. Vojislav Seselj, of the favor of millions of Serbs, wherever they live, most of them living here in Serbia and those living in Montenegro, Republika Srpska, as well as those who had to flee from the Ustasha from Republika Srpska and live in the diaspora. You know very well, because they know that they are on the path of defending national interests and creating conditions to defend all Serbian countries and that children, as Mr Nikolic told you this morning, and partisans and Chetniks, are called Chetniks in the last country war, and the opportunities and invitation to such a necessary unity has been done and worked only by the SRS and our president. But what to tell individuals, or many of you, is the honor of a small number of exceptions from the ruling furniture or from those ministers who are in Kostunica's government, when they said that we are Serbian villains, and we are the most horrible people, and you know that we are the people who wanted to do evil and for God's sakes, we have done something, as they tend to say - armed actions. I had a case a few days ago in the Kragujevac City Assembly that in one act, which gives the opportunity for participants of the last country wars to be released from transport, and then it is said that this is the right of those who participated, imagine, in the armed actions since August 1990. What exactly is this about? It is that in your heads and in the consciousness of yourselves, and the growing number of people who support you is still not what is primary and what is really the basis for someone to call themselves a patriot and to really get recognition from the people that he loves his country and his people, which is – to clear up who we Serbs are, and who they are, through the centuries and backwards, if I go back these 60 years, were our enemies. I'm talking about World War II, and especially "brosomania", that time of oneness and communism, and the period since 1990, so here we go. You know, by this law of yours, you now call it a law, a man you all know very well, who is an active participant in political life of Serbia, one of the founders, or he was president of the Democratic Party, and now he's a member of the presidency, Dragoljub Micunovic, can be called to this law and that, since he spent a short time on the Golo Island, he says – I ask to be rehabilitated. But to ask people who were with him at the same time on the naked island what he was doing there while they were being tortured in the worst possible way, he will tell you that he was working with those who held them in such inhuman and non-civilization conditions, and came to Belgrade for a short time. The same relationship is now with those who follow him, and the so-called democratic bloc, these democratic children of his, alleged, and Boris Tadic and that Sutanovac, various Gilas and others. The same attitude toward those who are now being persecuted by other courts and other villains and executioners, like the driver in The Hague. They did not raise their voice because in this way three years and over, with their help, with the help of Svilanovic and other Ustashas in Serbia a false indictment has been filed against the president of our party – Prof. Vojislav Seselj. And it doesn't say Dr. Vojislav Seselj all these books just for you ignorants to learn something, the one I hold in my hand is a book number 63. You know his name? "Crime and criminal Javier Solana." It's not just this book about what the misdeeds and misdeeds have done here in Serbia, but about how everyone who was willing to serve both the Americans and the Western powers, and also those who were willing to cooperate with fascists and the Nazis in World War II, that they could pull the parallel between these new or younger domestic traitors and those who were willing to do so for certain privileges: for themselves, for members of their families, once upon a time, and simply enjoy mounted political processes and swept themselves over that innocent people were killing themselves. That's why you're not invited to speak with dignity about this, because you still have ideological barriers in your head. If you don't all come out of line today and say that you want to defend every Hague prisoner and if you don't start the initiative and don't accept what the Serbian Radical Party offered you yesterday – to abolish the Hague Show, because it was designed to, through mounted political processes in this most monstrous political creation in the world, judge only the Serbs, what are you talking about? How, then, are you going to be human to the shadows of those who have been killed, on this side or on that side, as well as to bring reasonable and rational judgments from this time historical distance? For this reason, not only will we not be in the hall when this proposal is voted upon, we will call the law, but as it is now from the Hague cell and without light these days makes Vojislav Seselj, and through these books and gatherings of hundreds of thousands of people, you could best see what it's like a few days ago when patriotic Serbia comes out, then it's a historic court for your newer history, what you did, and for those who taught you to do wrong for this country and for this people. Then you will wonder and be ashamed in front of your descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24794	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. He's not here. MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. It's not there either. Then, the Messenger of the people, Vojislav Milajić, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24795	Ladies and gentlemen, this law that tried to correct a certain historical injustice will, on its own chance, make new injustices. In Article 1 of this Law, the conditions under which a person can be rehabilitated have been given time periods since the rehabilitation procedure, for which proceedings, and for which violations of human freedoms, rights and loss of life, unfortunately some people from the past need to be rehabilitated. What I would particularly like to point out here is the period for which this law is bound and which should regulate certain relations. It relates from 6 April to the day of adoption. It is a slow period, for the simple reason that the deprivement of life, freedom and fundamental human rights was before April 6, 1941. I would just like to remind you briefly that during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, King Alexander passed the Law on the Protection of State and Disclosure, where the Communist Party of then-Yugoslavia was banned and where the communists were closed just for ideological and political reasons. The date of April 6 is also controversial, because the Kingdom of Yugoslavia existed on April 6th, it officially capitulated 12 days later, so on April 18th, and by April 18, 1941, there were also, at least formally, and judicial and administrative authorities that could make that kind of decision. From 1941 to 1945. Serbia was occupied, we had the Quislin government, there were authorities that made certain kinds of decisions and were under direct authority of the German occupation army, and the question of the validity of those decisions, i.e. whether they will be questioned and brought by the courts or administrative bodies of the occupation forces. Today's discussion mainly relates to victims for political and ideological reasons, related to the period from 1945 to 1990, victims of communist terror. However, I would like to draw your attention to the other thing, which is that in the recent past, in the village of Račak in 1999, in February of the month, more members of the Kosovo Liberation Army were killed, which was the reason for the "Mercy Angel" action and the NATO Pact action. From the present perspective, and since the United Nations subsequently verified NATO's aggression against our country, it will turn out that terrorists from the Kosovo Liberation Army will be victims of the terror of the Serbian state and will have the right to rehabilitate. It would be a kind of absurdity, as all these KLA terrorists had a residence in Serbia's territory, and this law includes the period. To make the absurd even bigger, it is quite possible that Adam Yasari will be rehabilitated with this law. This law also does not provide whether only those people convicted by the decisions of the court or of the administrative authorities of our country or of foreign states and international courts are rehabilitated. Where are you going to take a bigger example of human rights violations because of purely political views and ideologies than the rights that are being violated by our party president, Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? For seven months, he had no right to contact his family, his friends, three days his cell current was cut off, and you all know very well that the entire indictment was based on the political and ideological views of Dr Vojislav Seselj. What this state has done to protect Dr Vojislav Seselj and all the indictees in The Hague because the vast majority of the people indicted in The Hague are responding because of the political views and ideas that they presented during a certain period of politics, particularly those indictees who have performed high state functions. Dr Vojislav Seselj, during a period for which he was accused, did not perform any state function, nor was he in a state position, but was president of the SRS. The entire indictment is based on the ideological and political views of Dr Vojislav Seselj. I think the law is quickly proposed and absolutely does not meet the criteria it should have. It could also be accepted by our party, if it were thoroughly reorganised and covered all cases, where people, because of their political and ideological views or paid with their heads, were deprived of freedom, or were deprived of any other human rights. For these reasons, the SRS and the parliamentary club will certainly not support this law and will not vote for it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24796	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24797	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have heard, the SRS will not vote for this law. My predecessors from the SRS have given detailed reasons why we will not vote for this law, and I will, from my point of view, add some arguments that make me think this is a bad law that should not be accepted and returned. First it falls into the eyes of interest, perhaps it's a bit of a formal fact, that any crimes that could have happened because of the political and ideological inadequacy of someone, meant to be, since the war, according to federal laws. It was logical that then a federal state and the laws of the federal state came out, that something wanted to make amends, in a similar way that was tried here. So we've been dumped here by something that doesn't belong to us. We still have the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In that parliament, which absolutely does nothing, it would have taken a similar legal project to be considered and adopted. It's first and foremost. Why do I say that? I say for a simple reason, which is also the way our state community is being destroyed and the legal system is being derrogated, and the gods and parliaments that exist in us. This law is very short. However, as short as it is, it is freely said that it is quite bad. Why? It's being brought in at a completely wrong time. Someone said - you remembered early, what you waited for for 50 years and a few years to correct the mistakes that had happened before. Let's just drop it. We're in transition time, privatisation. It's an extremely poor world. People don't care much about this. Of this, most of our citizens today are not going to have much use for jobs, for better life, prosperity and standards. These laws absolutely don't provide. What is still highlighted by my predecessors is very bad and the solutions offered by this law. You have now given discretion to one court – the Belgrade court, we do not know for what reasons, to arbitration what is ideological likeness and inadequacy and what caused sanctioning on the basis of political and ideological similarities. I don't know if, in 2,500 years of tradition and trial, the court has ever been involved in political judgment and ideological measurement. There's an interesting parallel. The Hague court has granted itself, and we know what The Hague Court is, you will agree that it is a political court, to serve the Satanization of the Serb people, to be declared genocide, to try to judge history and to end it. You know how the trial in the tribunal began. The tribunal designated a witness of truth, a historian from England, who gave an opening lecture, where he spoke about the genealogy of Serbian nationalism, from the Kosovo Battle, and said that the Kosovo battle was the beginning of Serbian nationalism and great Serbian chauvinism, which he then had as a project "Great Serbia". Such nonsense was first introduced by the UN tribunal in court, to judge history, and to modify history. We know why it is, we understand. This is to justify genocide and the combined crime of the most powerful states of today, which has been applied to our people and which is applied to other insubordinate small nations. Genocidal sanctions are directed against the people, and not against leadership, and it is said to break leadership. Genocidal aggression is the most developed countries, when communications are destroyed, when markets, health facilities, civilian goals are bombed, and in the whole story, military facilities and military targets are least affected. Because of this genocide act, which today is not allowed to recognise a part of Serbia, we have a situation like this – to discuss such laws. You've seen the debate. It is normal for a socialist, who is an advocate of socialist, communist ideas, to ask himself: "Why, since 6 April, and not since 6 January, when did the 6-year dictatorship begin? ". You don't have an explanation, an honest explanation. The poet Steria said, "That's what you saw today," he said, "Our ancestors are dancing with grief," and he said, "Surprise, destruction and discord of our fatherly curse." This was seen today in this congregation manifesto. The great Steria said another thing that may have completed this whole debate today: "With Greek softness, Serbian hastiness has become a complex alien sacrifice." Someone will say this is a claustrophobic statement, something that's a conspiracy theory. Steria certainly didn't live at this time, and he knew this living space, he knew our nature, and just the great artist managed to paint our tragedy. There are a few things I would like to say, which is why he has driven the legislator to pass a law like this in this weather. It is certain that he wants to stimulate concern about the protection of human rights, that in this way he wants to correct some earlier injustices. It's actually buying time. When you don't have a more serious law, then some vague provisions and, of course, politicization, ideology, which is now entering our courts, you want to justify yourself. We would trust the legislator, the government, and the congregation majority if you really had these intentions, if you were to prove it daily in concrete life. Yesterday you rejected our proposal to discuss the violation of the law of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. If you were true fighters and true fighters, you would accept this debate, because there is as much argument as you will. This government and this assembly majority support the delivery of our people to The Hague tribunal. In 1517, the Inquisition asked Martin Luther to be delivered. What did the one who reigned then say? My citizens are not delivered. He didn't deliver it to a powerful Inquisition in the 16th century, Middle Ages, a century of darkness and darkness. In the 21st century, we deliver lightly to all our citizens. So, such a UN tribunal, which is directly controlled by the NATO Pact, which does not hide either the bombing protagonists, the sanctions, which they did to us, in the image of Jamie Shea, who clearly says at the conference, when they ask him what happens if he finds himself on the bench for the defendants: "It will not happen because we founded that court, that court is under NATO control." It's a court that has over 1,000 employees from different countries of the world, has a big budget, has a nice life from someone else's accident and has passed ad hoc rules by which they judge, a mixture of Anglo-Saxon and continental justice, three times changed their rules, and 29 additional changes have been made and everybody shut up, don't raise your voice against it, it's all good for you, but you're fighting for someone who died 50 years ago. Don't fight like that. It's a pathetic fight. There are a bunch of things why this parliament should be, this government raises its voice because Vojislav Seselj is being tried for a verbal delinquent. It's nothing new, and that's why Socrates drank the poison, we know that, and Plato said that natural justice is more important than any other. Because of this natural justice, Vojislav went to this Hague to defend the interests of our people. What does he get in response from this government? Unblemished shelter, a view of the earth, or even an infuriating laugh over a possible fate. What is the fate of the Indictees in The Hague? We saw the case of Slobodan Milosevic – death. They're cold-blooded killers. No wonder America kills its presidents: Lincoln, Wilson, Kennedy, Regan was shot, so why not kill the president of a Balkan country. By finishing my presentation, I will not talk about violations of the fundamental human rights, and a bunch of them are in The Hague tribunal, when it comes to Vojislav Seselj. I will read to you what the imprisoned foreign citizen, a Muslim, and his name is Zejnil Delalić, who spent 1,000 days in The Hague, said: "That is why I order, first of all, the Serbs, because they have the greatest pressure, but also to all others, not to surrender for a living head, if they do not feel guilty, Karadzic and Mladic, my war enemies and this madness, called The Hague, must come to an end, and so let them hide." I will never forget when a delegation visited The Hague in 1997. They were standing right next to an iron net of cages, eight times five meters, while we were walking, and then one of the visitors asked the guard, in German, not knowing that I was a German professor – excuse me, what these criminals were eating, and this one answered him – you will not believe what we are, just a little more bread. The time will come for them to pay their ignorance, if not for the money, by God's punishment. This was said by a man who was released from The Hague and said this – The Hague works on the principle of 18th-century courts, and here is the story of some hotel accommodation. During the trial, when I was taken away and brought in, I was handcuffed more than 10,000 times, and about other kinds of harassment not to talk. To you, colleagues, who are against this law, I give you a human call – do what is necessary to prevent the adoption of the law effectively, do not enter that day, if you have dignity, pride and if you truly appreciate the sacrifice of your president and do not allow such a law and such an act of law to be adopted. Don't play with Vojislav Seselj because we're radicals, we won't stand to be killed by our president, and we see that they intend to do such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24798	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24799	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, you are proposing on behalf of the Government the Rehabilitation Act, but you have heard from the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, that the SRS will not vote in favour of a bill like this. We in the SRS believe that this law is not sufficiently reasoned and that in its disposition, it foreseen circumstances under which the Rehabilitation Act should be adopted or passed. I would not repeat what the previous SRS MPs said, I would just look back, if rehabilitation is being done and if the government has a good intention of equating all citizens before the Constitution and the law, then the bill should have provided for those people who also experienced torture after 5 October, were deprived of freedom and under which decisions were taken against the Constitution and the law. Will there be rehabilitated people who are without any legal basis, without any crime done or any other delinquent, and there are about 12,000 of them. You shouldn't make a difference. All, according to the Constitution, citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal before the Constitution and the law. What is resentful, and this is the lady, the MP of the SRS – the Verse of Radeta pointed out, why only the district court should participate in these matters. If the legislator has considered and assessed that there are a large number of citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who are to be rehabilitated, there is certain that there are, from the Niš area, Užica, Kraljev, Valjeva, Loznica, Novi Sad, Subotica etc., not to mention, a large number of citizens to be rehabilitated. What if they are now coming to Belgrade and are initiating a rehabilitation procedure before the Belgrade District Court. This is not enough said and it is incorrect, because this disposition absolutely does not respond, it is not clear, in the questions – who is running and whose proposal is being run by rehabilitation. Absolutely not specific enough. Nothing is said about legal heirs, and every interested person – it is too broad a term, on this proposal can file a request and another interested person. It's a broad notion of an interested face. When it comes to Article 5. – a solution that adopts a rehabilitation request, mentions sanctions, i.e. confiscation of property. There is nothing said, if this law were to be passed, which are the rights of those whose property has been confiscated, both mobile and immovable. Do they have the right to initiate the procedure and what procedure and in front of what authority? Is it in front of the administrative or judicial authorities to claim compensation for damages or restitution of seized assets, if it is possible to recover the property? The question arises whether Croatia passed such a law? Eight hundred thousand Serbs were expelled and killed, in Jasenovac about 700,000, and were expelled in this last war of about 500,000. Have we noticed that in the environment they also pass such laws? I don't think they passed that law. I am going back, on the compensation of the damage, on the "Sabbe" action, if the freedom of 12,000 citizens is deprived, and Article 1 norms: "This law regulates the rehabilitation of persons who are without judicial or administrative decision or judicial or administrative decision, for political or ideological reasons, life, freedom or some other rights from 6 April 1941 until the day of entry into force of this law, who had a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". Now the question is, what are the other rights? It's not clear, because they're not visible here at all and they're not foreseen at all. What other rights are these? Will Sabela's action be covered? So many people were deprived of freedom, held in prisons, and released, whose freedom, life and security were threatened after the five-eyed revolution, and therefore I believe, and also the SRS, that this issue will not be bypassed or forgotten. If the chairman lets me, I'd say just a few more sentences. When it comes to freedom and human rights, I will look back, as well as my predecessors, on the freedom and rights of the president of the SRS – Professor Vojislav Seselj. According to international universal documents on human rights, the most harsh rights are violated in relation to Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, above all: the UN Charter, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, then the Faculty Protocol with the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the Protocol on Human Rights and the European Convention on the Prevention and torture of certain persons under certain circumstances. Let him be allowed to do so. Vojislav Seselj has proved to everyone that he is not guilty, but it is certainly sad, unacceptable and inappropriate that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not guarantee to the man, who voluntarily surrendered, that he defends himself from freedom, and has done so to everyone else. Why? What is Serbia's current political power afraid of Vojislav Seselj coming to Serbia? The charges against Vojislav Seselj in Serbia are written, a formal indictment, which contains all the definitions from our dictionary and our legal and political terminology. In the end, I will apologize, but I must say, because lately I have been living in the most polluted city in the country – "a horror that is not yet being solved", the "Glass to the public" announced today, because there has been severe pollution in Panchev, where hundreds of citizens have asked for help, and the Serbian government is not taking any measures. We therefore believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES must take appropriate measures for those who poison citizens, and annually 1,500 people die of cancer precisely because the government does not take appropriate measures against contaminants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24800	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Since no one's answering, I'm closing the search. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Excuse me, Minister Stojkovic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24801	Dear People's MPs, at the end of the debate, I will answer only a few questions. You asked me why it does not stand only—inheritances. The time has passed, a good number of people have died, so the heir is gone. I cited it as an example of Slobodan Jovanovic. I'm sure he deserves rehabilitation, but he has no heirs. If only we had left – heirs, today there would be no one to initiate the procedure for his rehabilitation. In that sense it is said – interested persons, and you know that in procedures it is always said, one who has an interest in starting it. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who has a legal interest? There are more of them. For example, when it comes to this case, all law schools have applied for rehabilitation and are awaiting a request. As for the questions: why the Belgrade court, we were in a dilemma, but knowing our state of affairs in the state, we decided to be one court, where to concentrate the evidence and to know who was in charge, so that citizens would not walk from court to court. On the other hand, a very important thing, to achieve uniform practice, not to be one court like this, the other one, and to get into a situation where citizens are not equal. Let me try to answer why we did this. The question is how the legal consequences will be removed and the property eventually returned. I see that an amendment has been written, that a proper procedure will be envisaged to eliminate these consequences. In the end, the question was directly addressed to me, so I'll answer. As for Vojislav Seselj, you know well that I am ready to go to defend the guarantees for release from freedom. It only takes one condition – that the person who is there should contact me. In that situation, I will always be ready to go to defend those guarantees. There's no dilemma. I'm saying very precisely, there won't be any interference. In the end, I'd like to say this, I've listened very carefully to this debate, regardless of the layman's approaches to these things, and I just want to point to one thing. We have all agreed here that there have been mistakes in the past, that citizens have suffered adverse consequences because of the wrong decisions of the state. We all agreed that for those to whom the damage was done, whether convicted, paid with life and so on, it was political persecution or ideological differences, that these consequences should be eliminated. It was a desire by passing this law, to remove these failures, that we could say as a state, yes, there were mistakes, we made them, people should be rehabilitated and that we could go into the future without that backpack on our backs that constantly causes political opposition and conflict. I think we should stop doing this and do what I'm talking about. Because I have to tell you that when we look at everything, I heard the question – whether the law will apply in one period, the second, third, it clearly says that it will apply for the whole period until the entry into force, I am also talking about the current period. I have to say another piece of information that this government has had the strength to say that there have been mistakes. In my ministry there is a commission, in about 600 cases we admitted that the state made a mistake, made decisions, compensated people for part of the damage, but for them, I realized it was much more important that the decision said that the state made a mistake and that it corrected it. That's what's very important, just not for those people who may have paid for their lives, who are dead today, but for their families. In that sense, it's a big deal that the state admits that there have been cases where we've made mistakes, and I'm saying, that's for the whole period, it's not going to be divided by this law, one, two, three or four periods, so it's going to be applied somewhere or not. So, in all those cases where there were mistakes of this guy, I really hope that we're going to go into some future without digging trenches, without looking over a gun, and we're going to be able to express our opinions that can be completely the opposite of that other guy's opinion, but that's not going to be a reason to look at ourselves as enemies, like political opponents or people who have a different view of things. So, thank you and I hope you vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24802	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24803	Regarding this law, I have nothing to object to the final presentation of the minister, he explained what he wrote, just for the sake of the public of Serbia, Mr. Minister, to remove the malfunction, not to use the word - the lie, which you have spoken. Vojislav Seselj submitted a request at the end of the first year for his defence to be allowed to prepare for freedom, and the request was rejected by The Hague tribunal. So, don't expect Vojislav Seselj to re-write his request to prepare his defence from freedom to go to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is legally required to give to anyone who surrenders voluntarily. Nothing depends on Vojislav Seselj. It's over for him. He wrote once, so when the time was right, and since two and a half years ago, the prosecutor has been preparing, in co-operation with you and with all the other state authorities in Serbia, the indictment against Vojislav Seselj, preparing for the trial, preparing witnesses and evidence, and Vojislav Seselj in four walls, even without light, lately and without electricity, is waiting for the trial to begin and when he will be able to defend himself. So do not talk about equality or about certain guarantees. It is obvious that the guarantees of the Government of the Republic of Serbia mean nothing and that you are free to go to defend them. That's why we wanted to discuss The Hague tribunal and because of this situation, where it is quite clear, if your state, The Hague tribunal, is against you, if you are lawyers who work for money, witnesses who are blackmailed to testify against you, and you are in four walls of defense, there is no trial. That's just the verdict waiting, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24804	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amnesty (Principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the Law of Amnesty. I'll say a brief - official act on the mercy of the government. It is a law proposing the amnesty of persons who have sinned against the law, the service of the military or the leaving of the country, in order to avoid the obligation to serve the military term. The same law gives rise to the prosecution of persons who have escaped, under which proceedings are initiated, under which proceedings are under way, in custody or in the maintenance of the sentence. They are absolved from prosecution and, if they are held in detention, they would be released, and the court would do the second part of the job and the persons would be deemed not to have been convicted of these acts. There will always be arguments "yes" and "no" The government is in the view that there are more arguments for, than against. Among other things, circumstances have changed. The military deadline has been reduced to six months, civil service is allowed, so the draft provides for the possibility of a ransom. One of the key things is the strategy that was done and I see that it was adopted at the Defence Council, envisioning the introduction of a professional army by 2010. The thing that is important, since it is a body operating in the entire territory of Serbia-Montenegro and the law applicable to the whole territory, is that Montenegro, in December, passed the Law on Amnesty and amnesty of its young people who have avoided military service. In this situation, young people in Serbia find themselves in an unequal position. That's why the army also believes there is room for this law to be passed, to achieve equality of recruits throughout the territory. They gave them the opportunity to enter into that legal procedure of military service, and the benefits of this are reflected in the following—we were not well. A good number of young people have left the country. You have many of them who have continued their career there, and by their hard work and effort, have made a good contribution to the country's reputation. Young people who went to study, hired, resolved their issue of existence, married, and eventually coming into the country because of military service would completely disrupt all of this. On the other hand, one of the oldest populations in Europe is us. If these young people were to be denied the opportunity to return, I'm afraid it wouldn't be good for us, because "white plague" is already doing it. He'd have to stop working, because there's no rule here that he could be five years sick, that you'd be away, that you'd still have a working relationship. They've gone in the highest number, because they haven't found a solution here for their existence. There are the good things we could achieve, to allow these people to come back someday. If you lose a large number of young populations, I'm afraid the "white plague" and how it affects Serbia. These were the reasons why the government found room to offer such a bill. I know there's going to be an argument "yes" and "no" but when it's all on the scale, and what's "yes" and what's "no" and what's "no" I think they've gone over the reasons I'm saying "yes." For these reasons, I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24806	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I were to use my bomb words, I'd say we're at the end of the country. This is how I'm going to try to speak calmly, quietly and constantly. This is one of the biggest hits you can take on Serbia. Mr. Minister says - amnesty is an act of mercy for the government. I didn't hear it was an act of mercy from the government. Why, then, does the congregation pass the law on amnesty? Let the government give the amnesty, then it's an act of mercy to the government. This is the law, Mr. Minister. This isn't an act of mercy. No law is an act of mercy to the government, nor is it an act without authority. The act of mercy of the authorities could have been done by Boris Tadic, that he gave pardon to the prosecution of Mira Markovic to attend the funeral. It's an act of mercy from the government. What the bill is, it can't be an act of mercy from the government, it doesn't depend on the work of the National Assembly on the act of mercy of the government. Let's move on, you didn't write down the reasons for the law. Now we have heard of one reason, and others in reason. Let me start from the beginning. The last amnesty was until 7 October 2000. This is valid from 7 October 2000 until the day of entry into force, and it has to come in as soon as we bring it in, so something doesn't go wrong in the country. So until April 2006. When will a new law on amnesty be passed after that, for those who don't go to the army since April 2006? Please, why would someone go to the army after all this? I also heard the explanation of the head of the SPO parliamentary group on TV, he said -- these are people who ran away from going to war under Milosevic. He doesn't know this is from October 7, 2000, since you came to power. Please tell me why my younger son should go to serve the army, why should he now lose his chance to get a job, make a marriage, have a child? Why? Because I raised him to serve the army, because his brother left during the war in the army. Who are the citizens of the first and who are the citizens of the second order? Those who don't respect the law, they're citizens of the front row. As soon as they raise their voice, run to the Assembly to justify them. There's not one in prison, what you're saying. Tell me, who's in jail for not serving the army? There aren't any, and don't prosecute them, you're writing nonsense. Now, the one who comes from abroad, there's a border police force, so you keep them, you arrest them, there's a trick, there's noise, there's basketball players coming out, there's no military service and no one's holding them, there's a couple of handball players, there's volleyball, there's a government ambush, and it's proposing a law. Minister, are you saying we don't need an army anymore? Please, this is regulated in another way – the Law on the abolition of Serbia-Montenegro's army, not repeated and repeated amnesties. Amnesty can't be a rule. Amnesty is an exception to some great ceremony, when the state marks a thousand years, two thousand years, when the state entered the European Union, so that amnesty is given – 25% of all penalties convicted of all crimes, except for the crimes of rape, oil dealing, drugs, terrorism, etc. I understand all that. I'd take it from here. But that amnesty is given because it has not been given since October 7th, someone has now looked and said – we have since October 7th not given amnesty to those who do not serve the army, faster to give it to them. What if he gets out of prison now, and the law stops working because he's got amnesty by the day, and he gets arrested again tomorrow because he didn't serve the army? If there are 50 people in prison and this law, which gives amnesty until the day of entry into force, a man comes out of prison and goes through two days, gets a call, he won't, because he didn't want to go to jail then, according to these members of the Criminal Code – avoiding military service etc. Then, when they are accumulated in the forests and mountains to avoid serving the army, or when one of the famous athletes who brought millions and millions to Serbia does not serve the army, so he threatens not to travel, or buy a factory or do something in Serbia, again – Amnesty Act, Mr. Minister. What are your reasons for passing the law? There has been an important change in social circumstances regarding the execution of military obligations. That's why he needs amnesty. What are the changed circumstances? Have we fought since October 7th? We didn't. What fear it was that man did not serve the army. What you're saying is that she's getting married and having children. What kind of children, if they didn't serve the army? No, who wants to give a daughter to someone who didn't serve the army? What's he doing with it? To make children those who didn't serve the army. Please don't. I don't agree with the fact that almost no one else with a gun is serving the army. You let them wash their diapers, tax, do whatever they want. Come on, and somehow I can accept it, but to help the Serbian government now that they won't serve the army, they can't make children, it's a little bit, Mr. Minister, degutant. So please, if there are any better reasons for amnesty, let's see. The criminal is a criminal. The law did not say - whoever commits a crime should count on amnesty. The other person who committed another crime can never count on amnesty. Because if someone stole 1,000 euros, now this law will not be amnesty, and if they did not serve the army, they will be. So amnesty can't apply to a crime. Don't call the Assembly. Come on, give me amnesty for all the crimes in some percentage, I understand, but that you have a law that only those who didn't serve the army, it's a disgrace to the state. I can't take it at all, and I won't take it. We're not going into your O.R. again. Mr. Minister, you and your amnesty government, you say - never again serve the army, defend Serbia, be citizens of the normal state where the Constitution established order, rights and duties of citizens, because you have no pressure. I understand that we and the Socialists are in power, the pressure of B92, all the media, you who were now in opposition – on the street; the bells, the whistles: we will not join the army, we will not join the army; the government does not endure and says – give amnesty, they will eat us. But the people want to beat you because there's no bread, and you give him amnesty for not serving the army. What do I call it? By replacing thesis – a view through dark glasses? It's unacceptable. I've been following that debate for months, but there's no one who's been taking part in the debate to explain the laws, but they've sent you here because they know you're a straight man and no one's going to say a bad word to you. I would like, Minister, those who have found the right reasons why children should not serve the army, to see here in the hall, to explain the bill, and especially Minister Vuk Draskovic, from Osijek, who cares about the diaspora. So he says, "Serbs, don't accidentally send children from abroad to serve the army." He says you just got a job, he's calling you Serbia into the army. And why don't you give a job to this Serbian citizen who won't go abroad? When's he gonna get the job? He'll have to serve the army. Because of him, no one would ever invent amnesty. This amnesty is about the yellow campaign, because of several athletes. You could have done it the other way. Five thousand euros, 50,000 euros, 100,000 euros, which did not serve the army, is being released criminally, and the army is being reused again, a one-time release for money, because the man is already an old man, he's been through for 30 years, I wouldn't even push him anymore, I don't need him anymore. But the state has to save it. If he has an army, that army must serve someone. If someone doesn't have to serve, no one has to. If five people in this country don't have to serve the army, it doesn't have to be 500,000. There are no exceptions, the rule is the same. We want professionals in the army? Bring such a law. He's employed in the army, works for pay, carries a rifle on his back, and he's a soldier, and that no child goes away, no child of the poor, no child of the rich, no child of the college, no child of the peasant. You know 10% of children don't join the army, what about this 90%, the amnesty bill again? Don't play with the state, Mr. Minister, your government is playing with the state. Now you could come out and say it's an army of Serbia-Montenegro, that you have no authority. So is it my fault that I live in such a silly state, me or the Government of Serbia, or the Council of Ministers? Well, the same people in power, both in the Council of Ministers and in the Government of Serbia, are the same political option, the same assembly majority, both there and here. No, we'll feel ashamed that our children are serving the army, because the child has the right to tell you – what, Dad, am I losing six months of my life because I'm a patriot? Since when have the patriots been punished in the land? What am I supposed to be, a traitor, that I don't care about an army? The Prime Minister will say -- here's an act of mercy from the government, you didn't serve the army, now I'm letting you go. It's unacceptable, I don't even know where you get this, which force makes you vote this? (Frislav Peric, from the site: Search for diaspora. Yes, what you've come up with, you need voices from the diaspora. It's not that, it's for us, and eventually, if anyone else gets a vote. It's you, it's not. Don't let the SPOs lie to you about holding the entire diaspora, there's nothing to it, there's no voice for them. Ask the people who travel abroad, ask the singers, the actors, what the emigrants tell them, who they will vote for. I suggest, truth be, this law is prescribed, and the one from 1996, as well as the one from 2000, is already being rewritten twice by the law, with the one from 1996, I think, amnesty for all crimes. And I can understand, there was an escape from the war. You know of the first deserts in 1991, 40-50,000 people, who arrest and prosecute. It's over, throwing guns, coming in front of a municipality building in Kragujevac, shooting for six hours, no one should have said a word to them. And I understand that. Fleeing from Kosovo and Metohija, they got to Barbarian by the time they got there, and somehow they came back again, calmed down, and you're not gonna kill those kids just because someone missed them or got scared. This is peacetime. Find in Switzerland a Swiss man who can say - I did not serve an army. And ask him to marry and have children. They're proud to serve the army. And what kind of army they have, you know. Only those who were in the army of officers are making progress, for them in Switzerland is open business because he served as an army for his country. Whoever doesn't have an army, no country, no state, who doesn't serve the army doesn't care about the state, and don't worry about it. Because doctors say who can't serve the army, everyone else can and must, as long as the law exists and can't count on some government to amnest them in the service of the army, because it's chaos. A man walks into a red light, so you punish him, for a few months he can't drive a car, you take away five salaries, and he doesn't serve an army, and he gets amnesty. If you're able to figure out what's going on, if you adopt this law, it'll be fine. If you think dogs are barking and caravans are passing, that's not true. This can't go on like this anymore. Whatever you do, someone with amnesty is waiting for you. If one of you said now -- I'm not going to join the European Union, that would never be amnesty. He can immediately sign out of the assembly, from the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups. The Americans will tell you, so that he may be your messenger, which he will not enter into the European Union. And when he says he won't join the army, the Americans say to him, "Give him amnesty." There, it's an army that would defend Serbia, and we don't need someone who wants to defend Serbia. We want Serbia to be inhabited by people who won't defend it, who will never risk anything because of it, but will wait on the tray. This country has been going through a lot of temptations, through several wars, but this phenomenon in a peaceful age, at a time when democratic forces are in power, when the West says they won't bomb you, when there were no serious threats, at a time when a child in his town could serve the army, when the boys from Montenegro serve in Montenegro, and the boys from Serbia -- in Serbia, at the time they passed the law on amnesty? I can't accept that, and I don't know how many Serbian citizens will accept that. But, you know, there's one more question about the village. If you tell this to the Serbian peasant, the host, he will laugh at you. And then why don't we laugh at you too?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24808	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, do any of the other presidents... First, the minister has a word, please welcome Minister Stojkovic and then a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24809	I've already said that there will always be majority views on this matter, I just want to answer what I've been set up for. When I said - an act of mercy to the government, I meant Parliament. We have a division of power, one branch of government is parliament, as the highest legislative authority. This act of mercy is passed by law, so I have always been of the opinion that such things should go before a pardon, where one man must possibly make a decision. I'm not going to say now that there have been these cases before and in the election of presidents, so I find that events are significant enough to free even criminals. There were things like that. When we talk about power, I have to say that parliament is the third branch of government, the highest legislative and, frankly, in three equal branches of government, this one is a little more equal than the others. She's the only one with electoral legitimacy who checks every four years in the election. So I wasn't wrong when I said the government had to decide. By this law, you said at one point, not military obligations are released, but only violations of the law against the military. It is given the opportunity to enter into the regular procedure, that legal course, that it eventually fulfils its obligation to the military. If this military reform strategy were adopted, as the military said, and I can see that she has the view that there is no interference with the adoption of this law, then somewhere by 2010, there would be this professional army and then there would be no more importance for this. Here, it's just an explanation, you asked me, and I answer. They say by 2010, the military's professionalization could be carried out and then, what do you say, with a gun to come a professional soldier and get paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24810	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Ivica Dacic. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Stojkovic today, through a series of unfortunate circumstances, is in charge of the government's representation of these two laws, although I am sure they do not belong to his original jurisdiction, nor his way of thinking. I assume the minister served the army. In our people, as has just been said, not only is there a custom to go into the army, but there is a saying that someone is incompetent if they don't join the army. Obviously, the time has come for you to be incompetent anymore. Even some of them were prime ministers, police ministers. Minister of Police to be a man who didn't go to the army! I think it would be my turn now to be Minister of the Army. Of course, when we talk about amnesty, it is given after certain major social events: after wars, revolutions, according to the minister, as an act of mercy, when there is a change of government, etc. This bill has no basis. He defines that amnesty is given to those who have not responded to the call for military service after 5 October 2000. What was the reason someone didn't go to military service? Before 2000, they said they would not join the army because Serbia was at war, that they would not die for Serbian interests in Knin, Banjaluca, Kosovo and Metohija. I don't suppose they'd die for Serbian interests even if some occupier came to this assembly hall. Maybe they'd just move to the front row, like Milan Nedic. Anyway, after that, they'd be rehabilitated under this bill. Therefore, you have no legal consequences. Today, we have a bill that defines that those who have not responded to the call for military service after spectacular "democratic changes", after which Serbia has not fought anyone, after whom Serbia has been in love with the whole world, has gone on a course of progress, through which it has set out to bring back children who had fled our regime before 2000. All I've said is a fairy tale. Not only did it not happen, it also increased the number of people who did not respond to the military deadline. Not only has it not reduced the number of those who fled abroad, compared to the period before 2000, but has increased. Is that right, Minister, according to the statistics of the previous government? When it's so good after October 5th, why they're running away, why they're not serving that "democratic" army of SCG, and they're running away from that "non-democratic" army in our time. I think it's best if you don't throw up any more and suggest amnesty all the time. I suggest you pass the law so no one goes into the army anymore. How can you say he's going to the army today and, by any chance, don't God, lose his life in that army? The parents of these boys are right – why their children should die and the other children will not join the army and we amnesty them. For what? Come on, sometimes ask those athletes who have dual citizenship, if they don't respond to a call for a military deadline, for example. in Greece? Check if any of these athletes who have dual citizenship go to serve two, three months in Greece, or, as they call it, some trainings, camps, etc. Not only does he not come to serve a military term here, he won't even play for the team. It's unimaginable what we're doing here. Even countries that have a professional army have ways of organising people who don't have a military deadline like us, but there is a obligation to leave at least once a month for training, etc. The right to tell you, the army won't be much damaged if you release these men from military service. Perhaps readers in the library will find books a little harder to find because there are no soldiers to help them. Maybe those who wash diapers and laundry in hospitals, and now they're called soldiers, maybe hygiene in hospitals will be a little weaker. There might be a little more leaves in these circles, etc. We'll get into a situation where every soldier doesn't even have a gun. That's why every soldier, according to what you're saying here, needs to put one kilo of that fax helizim powder and those leaves-gathering villas. Such an army will be freed from the obligation to come and sit down for several months and read books, drink and cook coffee for those who visit libraries, theatres, etc. Don't embarrass this army again. You'd better break the obligation to join the army. I just can't figure out how someone can propose such laws, especially those who have served a military deadline, who know what a serious state that doesn't exist without a serious army. The minister says they're not getting rid of the obligation to join the army. What, you hope he'll come after this? You lifted their punishment, and they will come? I suggest that now Mladjan Dinkic bring amnesty to anyone who has not given fiscal bills, so next time they will have an obligation to give. Why don't you amnesty some minor crimes in criminal law, what exactly did you find this heavy one? Here is what you amnesty: avoidance of military obligations, lists and reviews, non-execution of material obligations, avoidance of military service by incapacitation and deception, arbitrary absence and escape from the SCG army. Now let's take it in a row. Mr. Minister, why are you amnesting someone for a voluntary absence and escape from the SCG army? Is this a crime of not giving up and avoiding military obligations? Why the avoidance of military service by incapacitation and deception? It happened at that time that someone cut off a piece of his own finger so they wouldn't go to the army. I don't know if you're amnesting him, though why would someone do that now? Now that someone's going to the army, it's a better time than sitting at home. Every day he can go out into town, he has a civilian suit, and when he gets to serve his army in Belgrade, he's "on horse". Now you're amnesting these people out of responsibility. You deny them the right to live in Belgrade for six months. Why do you amnesty do not carry out a material obligation? What is a material obligation? What does that have to do with avoiding military service? The material obligation is, as I understand it, when the military tells you that you have to give something, that's what you were talking about here today, you who advocate rehab. The material obligation, I think, was that ransom after 45 years. Today there is this material obligation. So when the military says - give the truck, you have to give the truck. What does that have to do with avoiding military obligations and diaspora? I really don't know, like avoiding lists and reviewing. So there are several crimes here that are foreseen by the Criminal Code, which are absolutely inappropriate to stand in the law of amnesty. The aim of this law is to avoid 2,500 criminal charges related to the crimes for which amnesty is proposed. As has just been said, the reason for this is a major change in social circumstances regarding the implementation of the military obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24812	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24813	Yeah. I don't know what's important about the change in social circumstances that's happened in connection with the execution of military obligations. So in 2000, the Law on Amnesty was passed on a federal and republican level. The law has amnested those who have not responded to calls by 2000, arguing that it is a non-democratic regime, that Serbia is going to war, that they will not fight for other people's interests, not realizing that they are, in fact, defending their national and state interest. As Mr Nikolic said, after those wars in Bosnia, amnesty was also brought, which is a normal procedure when wars end, there are some major social changes, etc. These laws in 2000, unfortunately, have been amnested by Albanian separatists and terrorists who killed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know who's amnesty, Mr. Minister, but I don't know how you led it, who declared the amnesty for those who ordered the bombing of the SRJ, against which the trial was conducted. It was a review, it seems to me that the Supreme Court did so practically. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, let Tom Nikolic go, listen here, because Tom doesn't vote for you, I vote for you. The minister says, if he hadn't seen us vote for him, he believes in the word that we voted. Otherwise, you wouldn't have been elected if we hadn't voted. It means that there is no provision in the Rehabilitation Act that should have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that someone would have thought to rehabilitate Bill Clinton, Shirak, Solana, who were convicted of bombing our country. You can see Interpol is canceling our warrants. Fjora Brovina went directly from prison to a session, with 20,000 people waiting for her in Pristina. It's about Albanian separatists and terrorists. In our prisons, they were minors in the same cells with people convicted of allegedly war crimes against Albanians. This is now a continuation of the process of amnesty, which is primarily motivated by the fact that some of our famous people have problems coming into the country because they will be arrested for not serving the army. If there were none among them of these well-known people, distinguished personalities, rich people, but poor people, you know when you would remember to amnesty - never. If it hadn't been for the Divic Government, no one would have thought to propose this law. Of course, I don't think all people are the same, everyone has their own merits, but they all have the same rights, obligations and responsibilities. It is better, Mr. Minister, to release military service and military obligations for people who have no residence or stay in our country and stay abroad temporarily than to do this in this way. In a few years, you will have the same problem, because the people we have now amnesty will certainly not come to serve their military duty. When they haven't come by now, they won't come back later. Besides, why are we asking them to come? We freed all those who escaped during the war. Look for yourself, MPs, many of you weren't in our country when there was a bombing. Those who are not here now, boycotting parliament's work, have even called for the bombing to continue until Milosevic falls. Just a little bit longer, he says, just bomb a little more, even bigger bombs, where denser population is going to be a bigger blow for Milosevic. We've amnestied them all. They're not responsible for anything. They'll be rehabilitated. This isn't about us being against this, because we're against diaspora. If that's what it is, if it's people who really can't come back because they're gonna lose their jobs and everything else, they can turn a blind eye, but that's not the problem. There is a practice that there is no obligation to serve military obligations, and we will have a big problem if we are ever able to make any kind of mobilization. If you're going to amnest me, now I could invite all the citizens of this country from here so no one goes into the army, as your former comrades and gentlemen from DOS called, not to pay for electricity, so now that you've taken over the EPS, you have to pay. And the fact that you said you shouldn't be paid, because you couldn't live off of anything, people were throwing bills, so now that they were throwing bills, they can't get at what he promised them they shouldn't pay. We now have a situation, tomorrow, to have something happen to southern Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija, why would this one from Subotica go down. He will say: I will not, for some future minister will propose amnesty, and he who goes and dies should curse the whole life of someone who sent him there. We have to have the same arches to everyone, or we free everyone or they all have to go. This isn't fair, it's not correct, man. It's not Serbian for you to free someone from the army, it may not be Serbian for you to force someone into the army. Maybe it's some myth about us being great warriors and soldiers, and we basically escaped from the battlefield. I still don't think it's Serbian this bill. It should be a pride and honor for everyone in the country and the world to have at least five days of being soldiers of this country and of this people. When it comes to military obligations and when it comes to elections in most countries in the world, the diaspora has an obligation to come to the queen and vote. If someone is going to leave our country and our citizenship and give up their grandfathers, great-grandfathers and what they are, because they don't want to go into the army, they don't deserve to be our citizens. So, Mr. Minister, I suggest you reconsider all this. This law can have a practical effect, that people who come for Easter holidays can now come from abroad without fear of being detained. But I really didn't notice that, besides these celebrities, anyone from the government was interested in some ordinary people. Take a family, someone he stopped at the border because he didn't go to the military, not when there's a problem with a respected businessman, a sportsman, because he's a public figure, because he knows this person or that person or because he votes for someone or supports him in the election. He's the reason you write laws. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, once again, this law is unacceptable in our opinion, we will vote against this law, and I think the best solution is to think about it one more time. If the military ministry agrees, let it simply change the law at the federal level or the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so as to say that those of our citizens who are temporarily staying abroad, while there are no obligation to come on military duty. This is how you establish a bang, as you just quoted Orwell, who said, "They're all equal, just some are more equal than others." It's true, they're all equal before the law, but some are a little more equal than others. They're not subject to laws. If the laws don't apply to everyone, they're not laws, they're imposed dragon obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24814	Anyone else from the president or authorized representatives? No, I don't. ) The river has Minister Stojkovic and then, following the application of the first MP, Velimir Simonovic, and Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24815	Let me just give you an answer. I have already said that the army is our army for the entire territory of Serbia-Montenegro. Montenegro passed the Amnesty Act and a number of recruits are more equal than these recruits in Serbia. Let's at least get even in that part. Secondly, it is not true that the law is passed because of celebrities. Let me say it right now - he's not referring to the Government of the Divac, he's not going to join the army and he's not about that amnesty. A few thousand, which have filed criminal charges, which are the case with investigative judges, and therefore are not just celebrities, but our young people who have come into this situation. Maybe we should give them a chance like I said before. It's not about celebrities. I wish we had a few thousand so famous faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24816	Here you go. According to MPs' lists, three parliamentary groups reported MPs – DSS, SPS, SRS. First there is the word of MP Velimir Simonovic, then MP Toma Busetic, then MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24817	Ladies and gentlemen, when there's a new problem with natural science, then there can be different approaches to solving it. One of them is to look for analogy with some problem that has already been solved. This method of analogy has proved to be very powerful because disparadical physical processes can be described by the same mathematical models. This as a method has proved very effective. I will try to use this method of analogy now in the processes of another species in social sciences in politics. You see, when the law was passed here a few years ago, I think it was within the law on planning and construction, that the objects that were built without construction permits were legalized, then the lawyers came out very well, I don't mean just Mr. Mikovic of Pancheva, whose legal opinion I respected very much, and some other people who said wrongs couldn't get justice. Then I answered, not as a lawyer and said – well, gentlemen, I understand that there is no right from injustice, and does this mean that all the buildings that were built without permission are destroyed. Are we going to tear down the whole Kaludierica, where several tens of thousands of people live, and every city in Serbia has one of its Kaludierica. Since it's impossible, then we'll pass the law to legalize it anyway, to make people pay communal expenses, etc. And that they legalize their facilities, if they weren't built just so they couldn't be legalized, as I saw in the Krgnaca case that someone had betrayed the building on a big water pipe. If the pipes under his house break down, then his house has to be torn down, that's clear. Just like we couldn't take down all the buildings built without permission back then, so I'm making an analogy with the Amnesty Law proposal. It's not just about our young people who are abroad. The law applies to young people who are in Serbia and have not responded to the call. What do we do with 2,500 young men? I'm sorry he didn't come today, the minister of diaspora. I've participated multiple times in this discussion on the board about this bill, and it would be really good if he were here today. We have 2,500 young people abroad and probably a significantly smaller number here in Serbia, who have not responded to the call, so trials are being conducted, etc. I think there's a little something in prison for that. What can happen if we don't pass a law like this? It's that analogy with that law I mentioned earlier about construction without permission. These young people who are abroad won't be able to come, they'll be afraid of prisons, trials, etc., and some may even give up our citizenship for that. I think it's much better to pass a new law, because to stress that, this law does not free them from military service. He just relieves them of criminal responsibilities for not showing up when they were called. And that's when I spoke, and today I repeat here, I would never vote for another amnesty law regarding not giving up on a military call again. This should be the last time we've solved this issue, as we've solved by legalizing illegally built buildings, to allow these young men to come. It's just that all 2,500 people are rich people, I don't know how they're known for their abroad, just like that. They're young people, they didn't want to get rich. They may have gotten a job abroad, worked or schooled there, but they haven't been able to make so many young people rich, like it's easy to get rich in Western countries or America. It's not that simple out there. The easiest people can get rich with us. We can do it two ways, we can refuse this law and write off 2,500 young people that they can't come here to visit theirs, if they have parents or relatives, to make it impossible for them to come and serve the army and force them to give up our citizenship. That would solve the problem that way. If we refused the law, we would do much more damage to this country, and we really need to talk about it. I said this should be the last law of that kind, and I repeat, I would never vote again for some law of amnesty, which would be passed over a year of two, for new young men who would not respond to military service. Let me tell you right now, I've had a chance to see some young men serving an army on that so-called. It's a civilian way. Listen, civilian military service has to be an exception, if for some religious reasons or other convictions it doesn't want to take up arms, but those young men who don't have such problems, and that they're in hospitals, libraries, and I don't know where, it's absolutely not allowed, and I think in that sense our army has had any objections that it's going to change. Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, I've spent my entire working life with young people. Believe me, there's not much pride and honor left to go to the army. In Serbia, unfortunately, it is so, many young men are eager to form a professional army in Serbia, so whoever wants to go to serve the army and make money because it is his life's commitment. A lot of people just don't want to. It may be an unpleasant fact that we wish to say as Serbs, so whoever did not serve the army cannot marry, etc., that is not true, so Mr Nikolic knows that many young men married when they served the army. As in the villages, young people get married, then they go to the army, even in the cities there were. I know some of my students who were married or got married during the study, and then they went to the army. That's not the reason. I think I have cited the main reasons why this law should be adopted and why it should be the last law of this kind in this country of Serbia. So, to the professional army, and when the military becomes professional, it's understood that we won't have any problems like this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24818	The word has the People's Messenger Toma Busetic, then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica, Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this law is unacceptable to the SPS, it means further destruction of an army that is otherwise heavily destroyed. No one wants to go to war and there must be no substitute for the thesis, but the military is like that, it takes a deterrence factor from every kind of enemy. We cannot say today that Serbia has solved all problems, that there are no more enemies, on the contrary, history teaches us, and today's situation, that such an environment, that many countries around us express territorial claims in one way or another. We need a strong and powerful army, and a strong and powerful army cannot be without soldiers. So it's not an army of 20,000 or 25,000 soldiers, as recommended by foreign factors, domestic military analysts and domestic politicians. Military analysts are mostly in the service of a foreign factor, so foreign mercenaries with large and significant assets. They keep telling us about it, and God damn it, many domestic politicians, that our solution is a professional army of tens of thousands of soldiers. First, it's an insufficient number, and on the other hand, a professional army of 10,000 soldiers costs more than 100,000 soldiers in the regular service. That's why we say that the adoption of such a law is a further important destruction of the army. Who's going to join the army, if we pass a law like this and what happens to it, is it going to be a definitive decomposition, because I repeat, there's no army without soldiers. We need to get in the way of this process of decommissioning an army that started right after October 5th, and everything under the company of various kinds of reforms. On several occasions, nearly all of the most capable officers, such as General Adeni Delic, Ljubisa Stojmirovic and many others, were targeted from the army for a period of six years. This was also done during 2001 and 2002, including during 2003, and was done in 2004, 2005 and this year. What to expect from the Supreme Defence Council, where Marovic, Tadic, Filip Vujanovic, Minister Stankovic, who will be running which will be more serviceable to the foreign factor. Of course, there is Vuk Draskovic, he is the case over all cases, but all of them as mere perpetrators of the international factor will do whatever is required of them. That's why retired officers are the most capable officers, the ones who are targeted, and that should be said, the ones who have defended the country, and very successfully. These officers defended Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, for nearly three months and preserved the army. They were neither defeated, as politicians, above all President Slobodan Milosevic, acted on Resolution 1244. It is a compromise, and all who have said that the resolution is a capitulation, is not a capitulation, nor is the Kuman agreement a capitulation, on the contrary, in the Kumanovo Agreement it is mentioned in five or six places that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, which today is a straw of salvation in the talks that are being conducted, although they are funded, are not being led, but are being conducted these months. We remember destroying weapons, missiles in the presence of an American ambassador. All of this was imposed by a foreign factor, and our politicians, these domestically, were zealously executed after 5 October. It is quite clear, at least to me, that what is happening today in the Assembly, when it comes to this law, is a recommendation of an international factor. It seems to me that the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who gave the initiative to pass such a law, is well involved and simply, no one here in Serbia can refuse all these recommendations. What the international factor asked Serbian politicians to do after October 5th, so-called. democratic governments? Let us remember, they sought the amnesty of the Cypriot terrorists, headed by Brovine, it was immediately sought that all Serbian statesmen, generals who defended the country, were extradited to The Hague and today we bear witness that only Serbs, Serbian statesmen, Serbian generals were in The Hague. This is a distraction with Gotovina. Today, no more serious Muslim politician from that time or more serious politician or statesman of Croatia is in The Hague, has been charged, neither Mesic nor Ganic, we also know about Dobrovoljaka Street, we know about all their crimes, but nobody mentions it anymore without talking about the Shiptars. So, let's not talk about how they are amnesty and regardless of some accusations today, they're quite free to move in Kosovo and deal with politics. That's why it's scary when a good part of the politicians says we have to face the past, and we don't care what the Croats, Muslims and all those who caused the wars that happened in the '90s. What is important, what the international community imposes on us, is a legitimate question – what about the obligations of the international community? Why are the obligations of the international community not fulfilled, why is Resolution 1244 not implemented? No one more serious than our government president, the state, since 5 October, has mentioned the issue of implementing Resolution 1244, means the disarmament of the KLA, security and security for Kosovo's population, the return of the refugees from Kosovo and Metohija. No one can mention it, because it's a big fear of an international factor. How come now the convicted criminals, such as Ceku and Haradinaj, are not only at large, but also took over the prime minister's duties, first Haradinaj, and now Cheku. Don't any of the serious politicians in Serbia, including the entire Serbian people, know that Ceku has been appointed by international mediators these days. Ahtisaari was in Kosovo and Metohija one day, and on the same day Kosumi was replaced and so to say, in a few days, Agim Ceku was appointed. Why are they doing this to us? They're doing the same thing they did in Rambouje, to humiliate us, to engage criminals in the negotiation process, so Thaci participated in Rambouje, and now we have the head of Kosovo's government, Agim Ceku. So, the international community keeps humiliating us. It humiliates us because no one is more serious about what they require of us. What have helped us since October 5th, except for these billions of donations. Today in Serbia, we rightly ask – where is the money, no improvement, no progress exists from these great donations and from these great money. We are constantly required by various reforms, and when we talk about the army today, this law, so they insist – carry out military reform. What is the military reform? And this law, the Amnesty Act, is part of that strategy on military reform. So, to reduce the army, replace the best officers, General, place the obedient ones, destroy the weapons. What do they offer us in return? What is this help from an international factor or an international community, when we talk about the most powerful political developments? They say we've been given a high threshold for the upcoming referendum in Montenegro. They say 55%, that's a good solution. I don't think they're solid behind it. In addition, representatives of the international community, long before the referendum, already call on Serbian politicians, together with Svetozar Marovic, to hold talks on future relations between Serbia and Montenegro. So, in some ways, they already prejudge the possible outcome in Montenegro. What does that mean? This means that it is possible for Montenegro to be 51% for independent Montenegro in the referendum and that, in some ways, it is accepted as reality. The request relaxes Milo Djukanovic's position. We have a similar situation, like when there was a referendum in Macedonia. You know the question was raised at a referendum in Macedonia: "Do you want Macedonia to be internationally recognised and to co-operate with all Yugoslav republics? ". The issue was so formulated that the last Macedonian also had an easy position to define the issue in the referendum. An even more plastic case, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Negotiations have not even started yet, and Martti Ahtisaari, a well-known negotiator in those June 1999 negotiations, says Kosovo will certainly be independent, as the people of Kosovo will decide. Since when are Albanians the people of Kosovo? They are a national minority within the Serbian state. So we already have a prejudge on the solution for Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, they want that case closed. It will be a solution for KIM, but no one has the right to interfere when it comes to the rights of the Irish, the Catalans, the Basques, the Corsicans, the Sicilians and many other states. So that Pandora's box can't be opened. It should be closed with Kosovo, that KiM will gain independence. This is the role of an international factor that every government and all statesmen in Serbia, after October 5th, support and effectively implement all their decisions. So this deputy Marty Ahtisaari a few days ago, or yesterday, Albe Roan, said, "Here, the negotiations started, the negotiations are being held by Ceku, and there are no results on decentralisation. It won't be. Will these delegations meet, will there be any results? I doubt it will be. Simply, under the auspices of the international community, we know what happened at KIM after 5 October or since 1999, a number of crimes, burning houses, churches took place. What did the international community do? Nothing. Thus, this unspeakable listening to the international factor does not lead to anything and does not produce any results. Having a feasibility study, which is the process of negotiating an Association Stability Agreement, we welcome it, but I do not believe that there will be more important results, that the people of Serbia will live much better after all. After all, the role of the international factor was most often and best spoken by our President Slobodan Milosevic. He said it in The Hague, he said it back in the '90s. The international factor was crucial in breaking the first Yugoslavia, it openly assisted the separatist forces in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Metohija everywhere. The international factor has initiated a crisis on KIM. This crisis wouldn't have happened. Milosevic made an agreement with Fatos Nan that it was an internal issue of Serbia, but then the Americans, the Germans, came, began terrorist actions, training separatists. So the international factor caused the KIM crisis. After all, they also bombed us under the company – humanitarian disasters and threatened human rights. Does anyone else believe in Serbia today that KIM was a humanitarian disaster, where the human rights of Shipara were threatened? It was a humanitarian disaster when the bombing began, human rights were never threatened, only at the time of Slobodan Milosevic the rights of the Serb people were protected. So, just at that time, from the time of his government, back in the Alliance of Communists, from 1987 to the arrival of the NATO Pact in 1999. Only at the time were Serbs living as people in Kosovo and Metohija. Never before and never after. And at the time of the king, they were persecuted, in the time of Titus, not to speak now, in the time of DOS. And today they say -- NATO is pushing for an independent Kosovo, because if Kosovo and Metohija are not an independent state, then NATO has participated in the aggression for free. So it's clear and it should be clear to the last Serb, which is why NATO's pact committed aggression, which is why they bombed us -- to take our territories, occupy us, rob us. Milosevic resolutely opposed all of it. He stood up to the breaking of Yugoslavia. He really advocated Yugoslavia, as this was the best way to resolve the Serbian issue. All Serbs lived in one country and had the right to continue living in the same state. They had the right to self-determination, to remain in the same state as Croats and Slovenians had the right to self-determination, but not as republics, but as peoples. Of course, that state -- Yugoslav, Serbian, as you will, would be much bigger than Serbia is now. That's true. It's the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24820	I'm sorry, Mr. Bushettic, since the MPs are distracting me, would you at least mention the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24821	I talk about the law all the time, Mr. Markovic. I'll tell you why I think this bill was given by an international factor. So, this was proposed by the international factor, the foreigners proposed to Boris Tadic and to all those who are in good relations with them to pass the law, to make amnesty, to no longer have an army in Serbia, to stop serving the military deadline, not to have an army to occupy us more easily, to rob us, to finish their job by the end. That's why I say this law is unacceptable to us, because it has far-reaching consequences. It's all in that function. The army remains the only institution that means something, even though it's badly destroyed. The most capable generals have been removed, fired, retired, those who are obedient have come, who say we do not need an army, we have nothing to defend ourselves from, NATO will defend us. Where will NATO defend us? Who are they gonna defend us from? We've completed all the processes. The Shiplars are peacemakers, they won't touch us, the rebellion can be in southern Serbia any minute. Anything can happen. You know that no one has given up territorial claims – Bulgarians and many others, who have consistently had some territorial claims. We Serbs never had, but that's our destiny. So, the international factor has no good intentions, they want to break us down, occupy us, rob us, that's what I said several times, and through this form and this law they want to do the same. The state must have dignity, it's not mere formalism, it's not a national vanity, it's a responsible policy of every state leadership. So, this army of ministers, I heard you talking -- the army's going to disappear in 2010, we're going to have a professional army, it's not a good answer. It is a great hypocrisis of all those who are arming themselves, which is expanding their army, and we have nothing, we cannot defend ourselves, and the situation in Serbia is this today. If there was some rebellion in southern Serbia, who's going to go? The Hague threatens like the Damak sword, if anything is made, you go to The Hague immediately, everyone says – so there's no need, if there's a Divac and this society or two thousand other people, why shouldn't the Divac serve the army? And Kezman and everyone else. And secondly, what's the army now? The army's been six months, my men. Well, it's not, you know, three years in Israel, even women serve two years, and we're six months away. Let's amnesty everything, let's let no one join the army and fall to the end. I think this law is absolutely unacceptable to us and we're not voting for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24822	Thank you, Mr. Bushetti. Here you are, People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24823	Ladies and gentlemen, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 100, and regarding 104, dear colleague Tomo said in his discussion that Muslims are guilty of war. Some are, I'm Muslim, and I'm not guilty of war. I fought on the side of the Serb brothers. And no more, when you say something, you say – Izetbegovic, Sulejman Ugljanin and these are responsible for the war. Spaho Suleiman is a Muslim, but not guilty of war. And I'll always be on my Serb brothers' side and don't ever mention it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24824	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. I'm sorry, but if you thought I should react, the president is not responding in these situations, as I have not responded to the incorrectly enforcing of the law that the military is serving to resolve security issues within the country. God forbid, of course, she serves to defend the country. Here you are, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, then the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica, and the People's Messenger Branislav Rankic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24825	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, traditions and history of Serbia have never faced such a phenomenon, that we question our own security and armed forces and that we lose both sovereignty and, as we say, legitimacy. The two empires fell to their knees in front of the Serbian army, what are we going to do now that the Serbia-Montenegro Army is broken and brought under a great deal of question, whether it can continue to exist and survive and whether it can count on its security and its security. By reading this bill, I can freely say that Serbia is not a safe state, there is no one to guard it, it is losing its armed forces, it has collapsed against its army, the army is decimated, humiliated and today reduced to a beggar stick. I wonder why that unfortunate minister who studied for eight years didn't come before this House today, barely with a six-year-old, and we have thousands and thousands of officers who could take the honorary seat of the Secretary of Defense and present our army, not bring in an obedient and foreign servant to command the armed forces and decide how many soldiers we will have, how many planes, tanks, automatic rifles, bullets and not to count on. If it is up to that minister, count on the greater than he to see what he's doing, what he's trying to do; who he's working with and who he's packing with; when he comes back from The Hague and when he's going to The Hague; who he's in a relationship with and on what grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24826	I beg your pardon, Mr. Jojic, so I won't be charged myself. I didn't invite any Serbian-Montenegro ministers here. That is why, of course, none of the ministers can be present, and it is the law proposed by the Serbian government and set out by the competent minister not to be that someone has not responded to the call. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24827	Mr. President, it is the rules which are laid down in the Amnesty Act, I will read the first article: "Amnesty is given to persons who, from 7 October 2000 to the date of entry into force of this law, which is suspected of committing criminal acts: refusal to accept and use the weapons referred to in Article 202, non-resistance of the call and avoidance of military service from Article 214, avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception from Article 215 and arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army from Article 217 prescribed by the Basic Criminal Code ("Official Journal of the SFRY"), No. 44/76, 36/77, 34/84, 37/84, 74/87, 57/89, 3/90, 38/90, 45/90, 54/90, Official Journal of the SRJ, No. 35/92, 16/93, 31/93, 37/93, 24/94 and 61/01 and Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 39/03. What does that mean? So as far as we and the Serbian radicals know ourselves in this procedure both in law and in the defence of the country, we should have this self-called defence minister who was supposed to come to us to explain whether the state is in danger, its territory, whether Kosovo is concerned, the Raška area perhaps tomorrow, whether Montenegro is leaving or not, what is going on with the army in Montenegro, whether the command of Serbia-Montenegro's army has taken over Djukanovic and Filip Vujanovic, and whether it has any authority there or not? That is why, Mr. President, I say it is essential whether the defence minister comes here and explains to the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia whether this is how we question our country's security or not. This is what I believe, as an MP, that all MPs, no matter what political foreigners they belong to, as well as Serbian citizens, have the right to hear originally from the minister, so to speak, the competent resolution minister, because it is the crimes that were prescribed in the head of criminal acts relating to military and military officials, that is what we had to hear today.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24828	I'm sorry, Mr. Jojic, I fully understand your expectations, but this is the National Assembly, and it is not possible for any minister of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro to enter this hall, except at the invitation of the president, and it is necessary to have a representative present. So once again I explain, it's not possible, it's in the parliament of the state community, and it's worse, you know, yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24829	Mr. President, I'm asking you a question - I'm looking for an answer. Why didn't you call the Secretary of Defense today? If this falls under your jurisdiction, I understand what Mr Stojkovic came as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and why do we not have a defence minister to come to see the situation of the state and its security? What did you miss calling him? Are you ashamed to bring that miracle to the congregation, that it represents an army? We've got generals and officers who can be honorable, a hundred times more willing and capable, but they're not alike, they weren't at the "he" to look for a membership card, not to count who he went to. Second, how many times did he go to Carla del Ponte without the public knowing and why he's going there? Is Carl del Ponte defending this country? Is he preparing a security assessment with Carla del Ponte? (President: I totally understand you, but I'm just explaining to you and the public that I didn't invite the Secretary of Defense, because there was no occasion. How is there no cause? There is a fat and large cause – 2500 persons should be freed. I declare to Serbian citizens that the proposer has proposed that deserters and those who do not serve in the Republic of Serbia be freed in this honorable and proud Serbia. Everyone should be proud to serve the army. Don't mind me, but I need to tell you something from my own personal example, which should be known. I could have advised my son, when he got the call – don't serve the army, don't take the gun. However, my son Gojko decided to join the army. And I advised him - you're going to join the army. There he is, in the army and I am proud to carry a rifle in proud Serbia, to defend not only him, but all the sons of Serbia to defend Serbia, as was defended by our ancestors: Zivojin Misic, Radomir Putnik, etc. How are you going to explain now to those persons in custody or in prison, that within three days, the court has jurisdiction to come up with a solution to let them go, if there are some at a prison sentence. Why would those who stole a chicken or a bicycle hang someone, so they fell and hurt themselves? He's in prison, and the one who's supposed to defend his country is rewarded and should go free. Where's that? There's not a single country. The way the Serbian government behaves, when it comes to the military, it does not exist. Why not pass some regulation to improve the position of the army? How much are officers' salaries? I was present recently when Lieutenant Colonel SCG said - I don't have 30 dinars to buy a muffin for breakfast, because my wife doesn't work, two kids at school, I live in private. What are we not worried about? We're taking care of the profits that have fled abroad, and when. Let's just change the circumstances. What circumstances have changed? Even the circumstances are more favourable than having to serve the army, because the country was bombed, destroyed. We need to rebuild our army. The other day there was a show, Belarus showing its aviation, tanks and armies. When did our jet plane take off? Do our hunters fly, do they train? How many jets, planes, how many tanks do we have for use today? If the Shiplars attack us, then what are we going to do, will we also amnesty and release them? Fjore Brovine has been amnested. I was contacted by the president of the SRJ, when I was minister, Mr Kostunica, and said that Fjor Brovin was pardoned, and she pulled her legs and hands off Serbian children when they were born in Pristina, at the hospital. She was a doctor, a minister during those known terrorist activities. She was imprisoned in Pogorevec, sentenced by the District Court in Nis. After 15-20 days the car I used – he drove away. Here's Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he saw it, he drove Brovina to Pristina. Kostunica pardoned Fjor Brovina. A thousand 300 Shipatarian terrorists were convicted in Pozharevc. Vojislav Kostunica is making a decision to pardon 1300 terrorists. We wonder if any of the Serbs who are trapped, pardoned or exchanged. Where our sisters, mothers, daughters, who have been raped, public houses have been opened in Pristina and Albania. No one has taken the right to say to themselves – wait for people, shall we exchange, pardon, or amnesty? Yes, but also reciprocity. It didn't happen, as you can see. No Serb Shipari has been released. They either killed him or liquidated him in another way. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't break up the army. Serbian radicals will certainly try to train the army at any time, so that it can defend the country on land and air. It will separate itself from the mouth, but these people and that defence country will bow to the utmost attention, which must have priority. In this way, deserters who run away from serving the army are now rewarded. What Mr. Toma Nikolic said, his sons served the army, all the radicals served the army. God forbid it's heard in my village that my sons didn't serve the army, I couldn't show up in front of my peasants. They'd say, "What is he like, if your son hadn't left to serve a civilian military term?" No, that's not what I used to do. I'm proud that the radicals of their children are being sent to the army, whether it's it or not. I hope this does not contribute to the natokovs, testified to the historic enemies of Serbia. It doesn't answer to them that we have an army. That's why now we have to pass the law and make more medals, give them even money help. The SRS won't vote for it. We radicals will never allow it, we will restore the army safely, because the SRS is convincingly and convincingly winning the next election and you will see what kind of army we will have in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24830	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. I'm sorry I had to give you procedural clarifications. It is also my pleasure to remind you that you are right, according to reports issued by the defence minister, regardless of the various attacks on the military, the reaction of the recruits does not depend and it remains very large, which means that this consciousness in the Serb people exists. That's statistics. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24831	Mr. Stojkovic, you are neither guilty nor obliged to sit in this room. You've sent your children into the army, fulfilled your obligation, and I believe your children will fulfill that obligation. I believe it is difficult for you to listen to this, but please tell Vojislav Kostunica, remind him of what Mr Jojic directly pointed out where Vojislav Kostunica was complicit, i.e. opened the process of complicity in disseminating our army. Let me remind you how it went. When Voytila and Reagan agreed on what to do, how to break up the Eastern bloc in 1984, an agreement was reached in that agreement that Voytila gave up the theology of liberation in South America, in order to make American capital an even greater breakthrough, and in return the Eastern policy of the Vatican and the special policy of the Vatican to break up the former SFRY. That is why in 1991, Americans changed their political stance in just four months from sovereign, independent, with non-injurious borders of the SFRY, to recognition of Croatia's independence, Slovenia, etc. The factor that interfered with that break-up of the former SFRY was JNA, and it began with its breaking. The first chicken egg in the JNA to break it was the Union of Communists-Movement for Yugoslavia. Of course, Boris Tadic came, as the military minister even rewritten some doctrinal understanding of the military obligation. We have long had the legal opportunity in our military legislation to point out the objection of conscience, which means that someone is serving an army without carrying a weapon. They went to engineering units, they were in this so-called logistics – chefs, medical staff, but with uniform, military libraries, orchestras, etc. In addition to an extremely good military regulation that allowed a small number of people to be released from military service because of health problems, or to be declared limited to military service, and to get another benefit, in terms of conditions in which they meet their legal obligation. It's all under the influence of advisers who didn't serve the military, so the chief military advisers of Defence, Boris Tadic, were people who didn't know what the army was, because they didn't serve it. They said we needed civilian service and then we got baby-sitters, we got these others. In the military department in Covin, they remembered wisely, so all those who had been civilian service sent to that hospital to collect leaves, happy not to go to the army, so when they saw that the treatment there was a collection of leaves, they were better-than-better to go to serve the army. So the demeanor goes to the extremes. There's no naturalist here in this area, and this is still the field of law. The analogy is not useful, it's forbidden, it can't be applied in this area, it can't be interpreted by an analogy compared to another regulation, but there it is, the lay congregation, so now anyone with the title can say anything and anything here, that thinks he's right, but he's not. Analog interpretation is right, literally said – forbidden and therefore all decisions fall. If someone calls by mistake and says that they will be used by an analogy, know that the verdict falls, because the higher body makes sure that no analogy is ever applied, there are other interpretations. I'm just surprised there was no reward under this law. So, in addition to getting rid of the criminal prosecution of these 2,500, as indicated here, I think one member should have said that each of them received 1,000 euros more from the state, as Mladjan Dinkic provided a surplus in the budget and the possibility of competing to get an apartment. So, they're not going to jail, they're not answering criminally for breaking the law, but they need the state to honor them, 1,000 euros for allowance, and since they're under 45 years old -- the priority of the corporation you've passed the law on, to get an apartment right away. Why? They proved in fact they were right, they were right. Those who didn't want to join the army, they're right, you said, and you didn't even vote this bill, should enjoy social recognition. The president mentioned earlier that the information on the recruit's response to military service is quite satisfactory. Yeah, 70%. That's why this law is passed so that next year it's not 70% but only 10%. This is where 70% of people are punished, and it rewards 30%. The one who broke the law is rewarded. Let me remind you a little bit of who these members are and how they're doing with our amnesty. Amnesty and pardon are regulated by Criminal Law, but we find some amnesty that happened in the meantime, so I'll start from the first one that was done in 1996. I must say, since I was then an MP in the Federal Assembly, that for several years there was pressure to give one amnesty and that amnesty was covered by all the persons who committed a crime by 14 December 1995, so criminal acts are listed. Why that date? The Dayton Agreement. I have to tell you when he's resorting to amnesty. International humanitarian law knows about the institute, or standard, when amnesty usually comes. Amnesty comes when major armed conflicts are over, when peace is achieved, then at some point amnesty is resorted to, because it is no longer in this state of emergency, in a state of social conflict that could not be resolved, but the armed parties have taken arms into their hands and then have to go with acts of mercy towards those who, because of fear or other things, have not fulfilled their legal obligation, regardless of which parties in the conflict they were at. Probably, in 1996 under great pressure, I must say, under the pressure of the Democratic Party, which was symbolically represented in the Federal Assembly, but international organisations, NGOs, black, white, yellow, were given this amnesty. We didn't vote for that amnesty, that's what I have to tell you. Criminal acts 214 and 217 are covered. Criminal law, at the time of the SRJ, since that law regulated those crimes in a special head. What's going on? In 2001, the SRJ also passed the Law on Amnesty and included the same crimes that are listed in this draft law, which is now on the agenda: Article 202. – refusal, acceptance, use of weapons, let someone really explain the problem of being prosecuted by this member of the Criminal Law, when the defence minister, Tadic, made it possible for everyone to serve without weapons. How is it possible that someone can answer to this article? Furthermore, the non-declaration of the call and avoidance of military service, as referred to in Article 214, then the avoidance of military service by incapacitation and deception, referred to in Article 215, arbitrary distance, escape from the Yugoslav Army, from Article 217, avoidance of regulations and checks, as referred to in Articles 218 and 219. We just heard there's a DSS amendment that includes these acts, completely unnecessary. These acts are only possible if the society is in a state of immediate war danger, so there is some preparation for armed interventions, etc. It wasn't, so it's almost impossible this work. What is covered by this bill? The period from October 7th to today, which is the period, so-called The "democratic bloc" has been potentiating -- a period of great democracy, an expansion of democracy, the first democratic government, the first democratic prime minister, the first democratic army, the first democratic president, first and democratic. Is it possible that someone in such a wave of democracy is avoiding a legal obligation? How did someone dare stand up to democracy in the first place? You've changed these laws. A new army law has been passed, you have destroyed military courts, you have thrown them here, you have destroyed military intelligence, the military has been divided. A moment ago, the minister comes out and says -- you know what, we have to pass this law, Montenegro has amnesty. So what? In Montenegro, there is a government that, every six months, the prime minister of his sister's lawyer, has engaged in two million euros across the Adriatic Sea, went to Naples, Bari, and handed it over to one of the prosecutors there and asked them no longer to talk about Milo Djukanovic participating in cigarette smuggling. The whole political problem is based on the fate of one man. For what? Because the Italian Supreme Court, on the question of their prosecutor, answered Milo Djukanovic's immunity abroad, is not valid. Italy can arrest him abroad and put him in jail. The whole issue of the referendum and this rocking and breaking of the state is because it needs to be protected by someone's criteria, by the mafia's criteria, by the man who has the longest government in Europe. He started with a sweater in his 30s, and here's 16, 17 years, if he's the Prime Minister, if he's the President of the Republic, that's all democracy. You keep these people company and things like that. Of course, our army is destroying itself. Now you expect the radicals to show maximum democracy, understanding, some act of mercy towards those who did not respect the first democratic government, democratic power, democratic prime minister, democratic president of the Republic who served as defence minister and introduced military service with diapers, costumes, with the collection of leaves etc. I think you should have a little respect for this building, these chairs and these citizens who might be watching this transmission, because really after this – who of you can go out and tell someone, you know, you should answer the call and go serve the army. I don't know how you can invite someone to serve the army, they'll shut your mouth right now and say, "Stop, you're making me serve the army, if my idols, and they're probably athletes, actors for young people, they can't serve the army." If they can do other things, why shouldn't I? There's talk of a transformation here, there's an MP sitting here for a long time and he can afford anything, like someone's looking forward to being a professional soldier, like he's enjoying it, so he says, "Let's make 10,000 professional soldiers, etc." If you need to transform the army, make a transformation, then go to some releases, to something else. You haven't transformed the army yet. You are looking at the law to reduce this by 70%, and I must say for the public, they are responding neatly to the calls of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A few days ago, a general on TV said: both Serbs and Hungarians and Muslims and Bulgarians, all who experience Serbia as their own country, are responding. He even gave the percentages, that some national groups respond to each other in a higher percentage. Why are you ruining this? People see this country as their own, and you don't let them experience it that way. You are complicit of Javier Solana, the NATO Pact, you should know that NATO has formed a PE12 pact, the European Coal Community has formed PE12, Albania formed Austro-Hungarian in 1913, in coalition with the Vatican, and talks on Kosovo and Metohija are now leading to Vienna. Isn't it clear to you which house you're involved in? You represent all of this by democracy, openness, tolerance, the ultimate reach of some policy. What is your policy? We have no army, no police, no patriotism, no sense of this country. Of course, they file a bill, they set themselves on fire outside, they wait 126, they vote, they can't be applied afterwards. It's been our practice for five years. A law that has been passed since Serbia's democracy. No law. Half of them are not applicable, and the other half they apply as they wish at all levels, so our army will be with brooms, and at the same time you're stalking people, you're making some affairs for uniforms, vests, etc. Where's the logic? What logic does that make? Now part of it, because of our citizens who really care when they send their children into the army. No Mladjan Dinkic, he doesn't care about that now. Why didn't he propose amendments to the Law on Income Tax, that anyone who sent a child into the army would not pay taxes on the income of citizens. Why didn't he suggest another tax release and some benefit for the one who meets the legal obligation? Let's turn things around, honor the one who respects the law. No, you honor the one who breaks the law. Please, give the tax release, give you some electricity benefits, for the phone, make up something, we'll support every benefit for that family that sent the child into the army. Why the benefits? Because there's increased cost of eating and other things. Let's make it this way, every weekend they go home and it's not the army they used to be, but let's give a gesture to say that we care about the state. There is no state that does not have a monopoly of physical coercion, which is unable to protect its borders. Now someone will say, what are our limits. No matter what our limits are. Why does America have an army, why does the Netherlands now raise an army to 80,000 soldiers, and the NATO Pact? Everyone raises the number of soldiers, we're the only ones talking about -- the biggest democracy, you shut down the army, you don't need an army, you turn things around. It's like you belong to these media agencies run by former Idoli. Don't do that. Please inform that Kostunica, wake him up and tell him to withdraw these two laws. You're blowing up the state with these laws. Of course we will not enter the hall when this is voted on and we will always call those who allegedly support the minority government, guard them, guard the state from the Democratic Party, and the DS is in coalition with the DSS, because the DSS supported for the co-habitation of Tadic, and Tadic said the next day -- I was elected by the people, what DSS. Who's going to understand what you're doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24832	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic, then Branislav Rankic. Otherwise, the law hasn't changed in the meantime. It's not possible for people to send their children into the army. They're only going to the military for a full-time citizen. Therefore, they enjoy all rights or privileges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24833	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a bill on amnesty. It is, according to its content, a very short law, which contains only 11 members, so if you reject those three last members representing transitional and final provisions, it is practically a law that comes down to one side. Amnesty is, by its legal nature, an act in the form of a law passed by the Assembly, which gives an indefinite number of persons the release from prosecution, the release from a sentence resolution and the erasure of convictions. It's not an act of mercy from the executive government, as it is said here. The Amnesty Act provides for the giving of amnesty to persons who have committed crimes from 7 October 2000 until the date of entry into force of this law, and these are crimes against armed forces, criminal acts as set out in Article 202. 214 and 215. They belong to a group of most serious crimes, which are crimes of refusal to accept and use weapons, avoidance of military service, arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army. Therefore, these crimes for which amnesty is sought are foreseen by the basic Criminal Law, which is within the jurisdiction of the federal state, so it is only logical that the amnesty for these crimes can only be given by the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. The question is, if amnesty is given for these serious crimes, what's the military obligation? So, if this military obligation is not fulfilled, we cannot justify it, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, because serving the military is a legal obligation and there must be no justification for not fulfilling it. I am now addressing the citizens of Serbia, after October 5th and the "buldozer" of the revolution, the savage burning of the Assembly, TV, reportedly came overnight, or blossomed, democracy led by the worst people -- criminals, so now the Serbian government, after six years, would amnesty, or ablimate all those cowards and deserters who did the crimes provided for by our law, hiding above the flourishing democracy, which the puppet government allegedly brought, and this puppet government, lying and cheating on our troubled people. How is it possible to abolize two and a half thousand cowards and deserters who have refused to serve the military deadline, and then the question is rightly asked – why not pass a law that will be abrogated for crimes, or a large number of citizens who have been convicted of much minor crimes. In practice, it happens, and I had as a lawyer a case for one of my starving clients, and I gave the defense according to official duty, both of which took half a kilo of sausage, and to be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. If you amnesty deserters and cowards who have committed serious crimes then abolize the hungry citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24834	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, then the MPs Branislav Rankic, then Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. National Assembly, for the sake of the public, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I'll be fair to the government, and I'll say, right now there are twenty SRS MPs in the room, four or five G17 MPs plus, and of the others there's no one, there's sorry, two from the DSS, excuse me. If this is the National Assembly and if this is what the government should boast and rise up, and you adopt, you say, important laws, and you don't have time to sit in the National Assembly, since it's a good time, some would use it to walk the streets of Belgrade or some smarter business they have, I don't know which jobs they're doing better, in any case it's humiliating Serbian citizens and showing what kind of relationship we have with Serbian citizens. What's this about? The key question that is being raised today, absolutely crucial, perhaps only, is not whether someone will pass on to the families of two and a half thousand people, two and a half thousand boys who have avoided a military obligation; whether they will get their votes or not in some upcoming election, whether they will use what they are against this law and tell them – don't vote for it or don't know what; the key question is whether we have a state or not. So I call upon all the citizens who see this not to think about it – let it all go, let it all go, let them only think about what is left of the state. One of the key problems of the Dossow government since 5 October was the disappearance of the state, but not in economic flows. They interfered everywhere, first of all in robbery campaigns, kidnapping where they arrived, what they came for, and how much they got, in auctions, tenders, auctions, competitions, public procurement, whatever they wanted, where they got, they put their hands in big money, they took big money, and that's all they got involved in. In all other things, they watched the state take it apart, destroy it and destroy it. Just to remind you of the story of all DOS parties that we have a police state in Serbia, do you remember that? So we have a police state for 130,000 cops, that's what they said. When they came to power and counted the cops, they said, "I'm sorry, we made a little mistake, there are only 28,000 police officers and Serbia is missing police officers." By the way, it turns out they're mostly honorable, capable, honest and responsible people. What happened? Nothing. We lied a big deal, nothing special. They were talking – we're going into transformation, modernizing our army, we're going to have a professional machine, there's going to be weapons of white-world, Israeli rifles, American tanks, English planes, I don't even know what kind of plane I'm going to be anymore, I could list what they promised us, and their friends at the coffee table convinced and said they would do anything for Serbia. What happened? It happened that we lost an army, an army, and today, unfortunately, with the army of this country, everyone is making fun of, making fun of those who shouldn't, and it's being destroyed by those who make fun of both the people and the army. I remind you, today I have said and asked the representatives of the government, and you, Mr. Chairman, I know you are not in charge, but you could have received some information, how is it possible that Lieutenant Colonel of the Military Academy by name and last name – Milisav Pancic, was retired in his 40s and some years, just because he was sent by Slobodan Milosevic? As it is possible for General Bozidar Delic to be retired in 49 years, the best commander Serbia had in Kosovo and Metohija, protected Kosare, moved towards Albania, defended Serb soldiers, the country successfully defended Serbia. Do you know how many tanks they destroyed? Fifty, but those models, because they destroyed his models, not his tanks. A lot of missiles fell where it wasn't supposed to fall, so General Delic had to fall. That is why every Serbian officer must disappear from the officer's service, only petty thieves, careerists and those who will listen to this errand boy Carla Del Ponte – Zoran Stankovic can stay there. Is that true? Yeah, it's true. You spoke, you put away your children, they all took away their children, so Tomislav Nikolic's son, Radomir Nikolic, was a soldier during NATO aggression, and he didn't have to take pictures like Goran Svilanovic, and he hung his rifle at three o'clock in the afternoon, so he went back and said where and how to shoot. No, but the man was in the Boats, where they bombed every night, where the most grenades and missiles fell. That's Tomislav Nikolic's son, and you lied to him, too. There are no things you didn't make up and didn't make up to fake the situation in Serbia. You were talking, there's a new time coming. So why do we need an army, why do we need a defence minister, what we need from any of you, who you're making more fun of, you're putting citizens in an unequal position. You want me to tell you something, look at the citizens of Serbia, because there are no MPs and I am addressing the MPs of the SRS and a small number of members of the government, very little, therefore, to see what the position of Serbian citizens is. Those who have committed serious crimes for which the law provides for a prison sentence, and for many years, it will not be processed at all, and today there has been an inspection in the National Assembly, I am a non-smoker, anti-smoking, I don't drink coffee, I don't smoke, I don't care, none of it interests me, there's an inspection and a girl, a woman on the second floor, a waitress who has a salary of 12 or 13,000 dinars, I don't even know if she has that much, you know, 5,000 dinars is a penalty because she smokes. What don't, that...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24836	Because the law was broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24837	And because the law is broken, you won't forgive her for 5,000 dinars. There's no bread to eat, and those who have as much as they want and whatever they want don't have to answer for it. And that's your equal legal status? One more thing, when Krasic said, I don't think you had an evil intention, Mr. President, I'm sure of it, I have to tell you that I have a son and a daughter, he's a blessing for every father to have a daughter and he doesn't have to be particularly rewarded for it in years when a man's child is sent into the army. As old as he is, he'll go to the army, whether you're in power or anyone else. If we have a system like this, he'll go to the army, and I'll be proud to send him. I'll send him out as the Serbs did, but all the other people who love Serbia, who live in this country, have always done. What does that mean to you? You send him not into the army, but who sends him? I was sent by my father and mother, as they did each other and as they always did in our people, in the best possible way. Here we are celebrating something that is not normal, not only do we encourage everything to say – there is no state, I don't care that we all drew that there is no army. This shows that no one should ever go to the army. Is that true? That's right. So this is what you showed that no one should ever go to the army. You've called for a coup d'état. You've done it more than once, except you couldn't say it from your media exposures, from those who said that Toma Nikolic was killing grandparents in Antino, so after it turned out not true, we didn't say it, Natasa Kandic told us, and she's a trust woman. A woman of so many true things said that it was a miracle unseen. Then after October 5th, as the highlight of democracy, you delivered only one statement – information: they were released, amnested, pardoned, from Fjore Brovina to the Mazrek brothers. You let Mazreka brothers, who in the video of Serbia TV, I personally own him, not having him in the television archives, I have him in my house, and in my professional format, he says in the camera: yes, I raped Serbian girls by order of Fatmir Ljam and some Krasniqi, I forgot his name, it doesn't matter. But the name of Fatmir Lijam is important because he's been released, because there's no evidence. They will not see the video, nor what Mazreku says in the camera, is sufficient evidence, but that is why Vojislav Seselj will be prosecuted for his hate speech, because they, when they raped Serbian girls and when they were shot, killed, must have had a speech of love, so you let them go free and said it was a wonderful gesture. What did we get for it? Did we get that we have greater rights for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that we have our country in KIM? We didn't. Only someone with a heels got in the ass of a Western official, and nothing else. What did the state get out of it? It's nice to brag, but I wonder what the citizens of Serbia got from all these stories? They didn't get anything. Now they say, imagine, the European Union, they're only going with carrots, and the stick and carrots are for donkeys, that's why you know, that's why it's said, just sometimes it needs one thing and then another; but they certainly treat us like donkeys. He says, since it's carrots, we continue negotiations, everything's fine, let them go. People, read the book of Harris Holbauer, an Austrian who talks about the expansion of Europe to the East. Everyone who's read anything from economic policy, political economy, anything knows that. For economics, markets, cheap raw materials, cheap labour, that's their interest. If German capital didn't spread to Poland, we'd have terrible problems, recession, and like this, they're somewhere on the stagnation level or a small plus. First of all, they need it. Who's going to give up the market of seven million? Who's going to give up the expansion, the cheap labour force, the raw materials, the deal we have with the Russian Federation and the possibility of exporting by 0.70% instead of their 17%, what is it? It's their interest. What are we doing all this time, how do we use it for ourselves and our people? Not at all. Our people live miserablely, poorly. All that matters is that we're on the best possible path. What road we're on, nobody knows. The other day, analyses of US, British and other intelligence services are published, say: Macedonia, and perhaps Serbia-Montenegro around 2020 in the European Union, and perhaps not. Who knows what's gonna happen by then. You're not informing the public that China, meanwhile, became the world's first foreign reserve country, with 853 billion dollars. Don't tell me how much the Russian foreign exchange reserves have increased and how much their development fund is, they call it – the stabilisation fund, how much it's increased, how many billions of dollars. You don't tell people why they beat the Patriotic forces in Ukraine, not those who were doing revolutions a year ago. Why? Because it's all a lie. That's why Serbia's citizens, which at the time of Viktor Janukovic was 13% production growth, in their time is 2.5%, and again only thanks to the eastern part, where it is mostly a Russian animal who supports Janukovic. The question is, is there anything true about what you're doing? The minister's only argument was – it has already been made in Montenegro. Montenegro will vote Montenegrin language and Montenegro's police church. There's nothing Milo Djukanovic and other separatists won't vote there. They can one day say they don't know what. What we should – and we should vote here; yes, we are all monkeys, as this Tadic counsellor suggests for fecal issues. A man can't say anything else. How long has an affair been made for our army? How meaningful, how many times was the first news everywhere and in every place and why? To destroy the country. I've seen something done, there's a government regulation to attach our flags to state institutions, etc. What's not on every bridge, anywhere? If someone didn't tell you you were fascists, I don't know what, what's the problem? Is anyone ashamed of their country, their flag, their people? That's our key problem. This just keeps breaking down, and it's not just our country's defense system. I ask you, Mr. Minister, how can, although it is not your portfolio, someone in the government sleep, and he let me now say the hard word - scum, Zoran Stojkovic, but I will not, therefore, fire the daughter and wife of Jova Djog. What's his daughter and wife's fault? What's this man's fault? Why don't you kill everyone who opposes you? Milisav Pancic retired today, I said that already, Colonel. He is guilty because he was sent by Slobodan Milosevic. Guys, are you crazy? It's an extraordinary officer, to be seen by a man, a capable commander. Because he is a capable commander, because he has something to see and hear, he cannot be an officer, because there should be some among us who know nothing or know what they can do, except how much money they put in their pockets. They don't put it in their pockets anymore, they put shovels and loads in their trucks. It's the only thing they're going to accept officers by now. And the way you're gonna load it into a truck, that's all it's gonna be, you're gonna put these away in any way you can. I'm asking you, by what law is it that they don't let family members, someone they think has done something against the government, where does it have, in what law does it say, Mr. Minister? Behold, you are a lawyer, and I ask you as a lawyer, in which law does it say that you should tell me. I don't know, I haven't heard of that law. Maybe that Veran Matic will find him, as they found the law to privatise that television for 68,000 euros or I don't know exactly how much, but they found it. All robbed state and social and still appear as an alliance of nations. They'll tell someone how they behave and what they do. You've fined this waitress with 5,000 dinars for one cigarette, but it's important that those who commit more serious crimes than the Mazreka brothers, Fjore Brovine and all the others, you'll never punish anywhere and never. And one more thing, what about those who will do it from today on out? Shall we have another session, Mr. Minister, in a year, for those who did it from 5 April this to 5 April of the following year, as is now from 7 October. Is that how it's gonna be? They will, let's not lie to each other. You sent a direct call to the people – destroy the state and don't send the children into the army, no one will go. I don't know what you're accomplishing, except that the state institutions are collapsing, no one takes the state seriously, and we have nothing more important, nothing more, we only have one country, only one country - our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24838	Thank you, Mr. Vukic, for the word of the People's MP Branislav Rankic, then the People's MP Vojislav Milajić, then Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the bill on amnesty is indeed the ultimate blow to the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, and this occasion I would remind you that an amnesty has been carried out practically without any law, and it has been applied to police in the Republic of Serbia, and it is likely, by the logic of this law, that, for some time, if this government is kept for some time, the Amnesty Act that will apply to the police, although the amnesty there is practically implemented. What's this about? Since of these two and a half thousand, you probably don't have anyone who's been incarcerated, police have been here since October 5th, a large number of people who refused to carry out orders from their superiors were later amnested, rewarded by better jobs and returned to do the jobs they were doing. Since the military has indeed been in an invisible position for a long time, especially after October 5th, this law will only add to the letter "I". Someone used to say, when it comes to the Law on Amnesty, if you amnesty those who have really escaped military service in an ugly way, without any need of course, since neither dates nor anything – why didn't you pass a law that would amnesty some other people, such as those who were forced to pay for electricity in time, when you were supposed to come to power, so globally, as large – DOS? Why are you not the ones that you have prevented from carrying out your civic obligations towards the state, which, when it comes to the collection of money from the same citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you wanted to amnesty and you even tried to impose financial and other disciplines on them all. I think that destroying and destroying our army has been the most contributed by the so-called civilian control of the army, which has been promoted for several years as one of the most important objectives behind which, of course, NGOs and foreign factors are, above all, here on the domestic ground: Natasha, Sonja, etc.; the outside are: Carla, Solana and others. And that civilian military control is practically aimed at destroying the military, because I don't believe that the American military forces have any civilian control, regardless of their Congress or anyone else's decision to use. But civilian control within the army, as we understand it, does not exist. However, we are allowed to go to military facilities, you saw for yourself, enters as anyone wishes, and now, if you amnest those who avoid serving the army, that means that you simply say it – Serbia-Montenegro's army no longer exists. Everything here is allowed, anyone who doesn't want to join the army, doesn't have to go, will have no consequence because he didn't go, and won't have a future unless he goes. Why do you who have practically taken over to run the country have to think five six years in advance to make it good for the state and the citizens? Here's a simple example. If you remember, in the first round of negotiations in Vienna, it was said by international representatives that Serbia must pay one period of Milosevic's rule by rewarding Kosovo's Cypriots -- Kosovo's independence. I suppose Vojislav Kostunica reacted in such a way that he said it was a fight against terrorism, that it was not a struggle by the Shipara for human and minority rights, and then the dead-cold one from the international community told him: so if so, then why did you amnesty a thousand and a half of Shipara, on the grounds that they were freedom fighters? Of course, that's why every card was taken out of the hands of our negotiating team, because he practically admitted by that release that it was something else, not terrorism, which is essentially what it is. I don't know where Mr. President of the Assembly got the data that in the military response more than 90%, the data from June this year says that out of the tens of thousands of recruits invited, only four and a half thousand responded to the service, which means it's less than 50%. I don't know if that's the percentage of people who wash diapers help deliver women in hospitals, clean circles of leaves, not knowing it's psychotherapy, not a military deadline, that's. military service. You see, since it is a synchronised action run by some international factors, but unfortunately also representatives of the government in Serbia, we happen to have in some newspapers on the same side of the news today, and the news is that in the spring the rebellion in southern Serbia is being prepared, of course, by Shipara in Bujanovac, Medvedji and Presevo. In addition, the news is that in the next 15 days, 700 Lieutenant Colonels of the Serbia-Montenegro Army retires. What you're practically saying is, I believe that such news is being conducted, that someone is behind it and that the details are being worked out where it should be. You say simply to the Shiptars – feel free to prepare yourself, have weapons, have instructors, thank God, from abroad, cross over to you from the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, they will train you, go ahead. Here, when you leave, we will immediately withdraw 700 of our colonels, and you know they are very educated people who are capable of resisting such an announcement. You specifically tell them, gentlemen, you can reach Nis, and even when you get to Nis, the question is whether we'll have anyone to confront you, since we've made a decision that those who don't want to, don't have to, there's no one to defend. Here, I would not, of course, like such a scenario to happen, but this is exactly what this law proposes, and I believe that the parliament is being followed by others who are interested in it and who are following the laws that we are making. I'll inform you of something else, it would be better if someone else were in your place, since I don't believe it's a job you should be doing when it comes to defending this law, that in the last few years, there's been a senseless destruction of the overall military performance in the Republic of Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, that hundreds of tanks have been destroyed, at prices that don't exceed 300 euros, that some 250 tanks that are in use have been destroyed. It is enough to buy only half a new tank, to plan to destroy about six to seven thousand hand rockets that are launched from a hand launcher – "Strela 2M", whose value exceeds several hundredm euros, and that is, under the pretext that America says is suitable for terrorist activities. That is why this cannot be owned by the Serbia-Montenegro Army, but the Cypriot army in Kosovo, or the Kosovo Protection Corps, owns and is allowed by them, because they are practically terrorists. If it's intended and suitable for terrorist facts, then they're allowed. Because of these double standards that the world imposes on us, the government of Serbia, or you, if you are in a situation, should withdraw the law, because we can no longer be confused in front of citizens, we cannot do what we are not asked to do. I don't think anyone's officially asked for this, except for a few NGOs. If you take this for something important, you really don't need to run the Republic of Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24840	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić, then the People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and Nenad Mitrovica. By the way, I did not present the exact information, I just pointed out that Mr. Jojic was right to have major affairs and attacks against the military that last, fortunately, do not affect the percentage of the response. It's public data, and as you know, I was in a position to have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24841	Ladies and gentlemen, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is stated that 2500 people have either been prosecuted or have been brought to an end for crimes related to the non-declaration of the call and avoidance of military duty or the refusal to carry arms and other criminal acts related to the military's obligation and to the military. It has also been stated that since 7 October 2000 there have been major social changes, I do not know exactly what was thought, that this is one of the reasons why these people should meet and bring an act of mercy, as the proposing representative put it here, by the legislative authority. The legislative authority neither makes laws nor decisions by grace nor mercy, but makes them by the congregation’s majority, and as the congregation’s majority decides, such laws and decisions of this house will be adopted. In addition, the proposaler's representative presented the reason for preparing legislation to allow for the purchase of military training. He also stated the reason that Montenegro has already passed an amnesty law, that it has amnesty. By the way, he stated as a reason that a lot of young people, sportsmen abroad, because of the nature of their work, not only athletes, but also other professions, were prevented from responding to military service, as they would suffer some damage, would lose their jobs or some kind of profit. He said all of this in a very quiet voice, which suggests that even the proposing's representative does not believe in the reasons for the adoption of this law. As a representative of the government, since the government is officially proposing this law, it must also represent the bill. I would also refer to the moral aspect of this bill. Last week we had in the assembly procedure a bill on martial law, which was withdrawn from the procedure on a proposal from the government, so I'd put it in parallel with those two laws. It's two categories of people. The Law on Combat-Invalid Protection regulates relations for that category of people who responded to the state's call, participated in war activities. Some had the misfortune that they had lost their lives, that they were wounded, some were fortunate to return alive and healthy, but they responded to the call of the state and went to war. The bill envisioned the reduction of all rights that the category of persons could achieve under the law, with a total of 25%, and wartime military people with disabilities had protests before the Serbian government, after which, under the pressure of the SAA, the law was withdrawn from the procedure. On the other hand, we have the Amnesty Act, which requires us to amnesty of 2,500 people who have in various ways avoided their constitutional and legal obligation to respond to the SCG military's call and repay some debt to their country. If it was the war in 2001, from October 7th to today, let me understand. There are people who are very afraid of war. Basically, we're all afraid of war. Who likes war? No one in their right mind can love war. We all have that fear, someone smaller, someone bigger. What are the important social changes that have taken place since October 7th so as to have a moral justification for amnesty because of a short period of work in the meantime? I guess these people in 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995, who were at war, had a lot of work to do, and they didn't run away again, but took the gun, the state invited them, made themselves available to their country, participated in the war, some also crippled, some unfortunately lost their lives, but did not run away. Now the state wants to reward them by reducing 25% of the total income of the families of fallen fighters, wartime wartime peoples, civilian war peoples and civil victims of war so far. This law has great moral weight according to this category of people who responded to the call of the state and participated in the war. With this amnesty you amnesty of people who in peacetime conditions, when there is no war danger, when there was no war, from some of their own selfish interests did not want to respond to the state's call, even though it was constitutional and legal obligation. Now let's reward them and amnesty them. You have those who have fled abroad. They also had travel expenses. It was meant to escape abroad. Someone by plane, someone by car. You also have a stay abroad, hotels are extremely expensive. You were supposed to get a job there on black when you didn't have a work permit. These are all big problems for these people. I think they should have been brought into this law to make up for the damage they had spent abroad for the time they had spent running away from their constitutional and legal obligations. On the other hand, you deny rights to people who are moral and safe, who are patriots and who have put themselves in office of the state and responded to the call of the state. It's a huge moral dilemma for every country. If we claim to be a serious state, we must take care of hundreds of thousands of people who have participated since 1991 in all war acts. Who will answer the call tomorrow if there is an aggression against our country? Everyone's gonna say, "I'd better run away, wait for all this to end," so some "democratic" government will come, and it'll all amnesty." What, they're smart, and these are the fools that went to war? I think you personally agree with what I'm saying and you're representing this bill by official duty, because you're a member of the government, but I don't think you agree deeply with the act of amnesty. In the end, I would also like to tell you that all the serious states are taking care of their armed forces, rigorously punishing deserters and those who violate military regulations and regulations that are related to armed forces, and those countries that you never doubted had any rigorous regulations and were giving away huge means of arms and military. I'll tell you who stands out most for the army in Europe, per capita. So, not in total, but in proportion to the population, who is the most isolated and who is the other country. The first is Switzerland, and immediately after Sweden, both countries are neutral. Switzerland hasn't fought for 500 years, Sweden for 200 years. They appreciate their armed forces and it speaks to the seriousness of these states. If we want to be a serious state, we need to appreciate our armed forces, to appreciate and respect our children that we send to the military, and we must in no way allow those who are trying to play the laws, who are looking to profit from similar situations as we have since 1991, so we say, not to list all the wars that were. We have to act like a serious state, and we can't let people like that get amnesty because of a huge number of people. So what if it's 2,500 people? That is exactly what should be a reason and a reminder to all future recruits and all other military bonds to take care of their obligations to their country and nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24842	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, so the MP Nenad Mitrovica. I'm sorry, you understand, I laughed at you for not being commendable but calling on the situation in which the elections were held for three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24843	I thought you were laughing because the newly arrived MP forgot to draw the card when he left the hall again. So I was wrong. Since you're at your disposal, Mr. President, as you say, good information on the response of recruits to military service, and you're very well aware of that, since it's not some special secret, especially in this country, we have precise data. Here, to help you and Serbian citizens know exactly what our recruits' response to military service is, and everything related to this bill. In the March period in Serbia, 68% and 5.517 of the soldiers planned to respond to the planned 8,090 soldiers, respectively, serving 2,368 by changing diapers, collecting leaves, so that civilians serve a military deadline. In Montenegro, 83% of the recruits who are up for military service and watch out, in the heroic, heroic Montenegro, only 21% of the recruits serve under arms, while 62% serve a civilian military deadline. It's only six months of military service. Whether it is a good response, as you say or not, let the public of Serbia assess. For me, it's a good response when 100% healthy and capable men respond to the country's call and serve a military deadline. You, me, our generation, have served our military time within a long time. Someone served 12 months, some 15, and a generation before us 18, generations ago – 36 months in the Navy, but the fill was 100%. It was an honor to serve the army. I remember in 1968 and the crisis in Czechoslovakia, many young people who were rejected for military service were looking forward to this crisis because they said: now is a dangerous situation, and the state will have to invite us to serve the army. This was the understanding of duty, of love for the army, of country and desire to be defended by learning in the army of the country. You see how it is today. You heard earlier from our MPs that by the end of the year about 700 senior officers, of the rank of majors, colonels, colonels, generals, will be gone, or will cease active service in the armed forces of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. Maybe that's not the problem, maybe we really have more colonels than all of NATO forces, maybe it's all true, especially when this kind of response, when after this law and amnesty of those who refused to serve an even smaller number of young men will be agreed to serve in the armed forces of this still common state. Perhaps all of this is true, it may be an expensive army, but the second question is, if you retire the most capable piece, you heard it before, Alexander Vukic told you what kind of man, any colonel, capable commander, person, if you send General Delic to retire, if many colonels and colonels who are not even 40 years old, and were members of the Elderly Staff of the 63rd Paradural Division in Nis and participated in many war activities, defended the country in Kosovo and wherever necessary – will never become generals and will never progress, even though they have completed all the necessary schools. Their only fault is that they participated in war operations, which were very successful in commanding and performing the facts where it was most needed and because they prevented the American or other military from crossing our country's territory. They will never become generals, although the military call is in their blood, in tradition, even though their grandfathers and fathers were officers and fought. That's the problem. The problem is, not only did 68% respond, of which 2,368 will serve the army of civilians, but the children who have agreed to serve under arms will serve the military term. How they're going to train, what they're going to shoot, when they can't fire a bullet today, they say it's expensive, when the fighting means are completely out of line, when there's no fuel to take off our planes and there's no money to pay for repairing the most ordinary piece for some of the fighter planes that, by the way, are three, four or five generations behind the NATO Force plane. Can't you remember that brave pilot who took off in MIG 29, knowing that he's being flown against by an squadron that has radars that reveal their targets, that he doesn't have to make any visual contact between the aircraft and that they can destroy their missiles that fighter plane of our Air Force, he still took off. That's what I'm talking about. According to Vukcevic, that wolf's minister of diaspora – you do not come by accident, you have a job there, etc. He can tell them, he's got it. To him, the Croatian government in the White monastery makes the house as if it were a victim of a bombing, as if something had been destroyed there, and it was not destroyed. That's what I'm saying, and he can sue me. I'm not gonna call for immunity. You say they left because they couldn't find a job in a country of democracy, in a country everyone respects, which they all give, and at the same time we hear that only Germany, as a government, has invested 500m euros, that the total investments that have entered our country since 5 October – five billion dollars, that foreign reserves are growing, creating better conditions for the development of private enterprise, and that we are a country that has a high growth rate of industrial and other production. There's something illogical about it. In the end, let me address the SPS MPs by means of an indirect route, because I hope at least one of them is watching this television broadcast, since they're not in the O.R. This law can be withdrawn immediately, the minister is here. It's just enough for the head of their parliamentary group to come out and say, "We won't go in when this law is voted on." The head of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said that the radicals would not be here, the decision-making quorum would not be, or perhaps then you would drive out to the purity of the "yellow", and then the "yellow" would come down, give you a quorum to save all deserters who are subject to this amnesty law, because the largest number of those who have avoided the military commitment, who have been hiding, like Goran Vesic and similar from their ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24844	The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is the Law on Amnesty, which says in its first article that amnesty is given to persons who, from 7 October 2000 to the day of entry into force of this law, have committed, i.e. where there is a reasonable suspicion that they have committed crimes, and it is listed: refusal to receive and use weapons, non-refuse of calls and avoidance of military service, avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception and arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, mentioned by the bill on amnesty, the current government is tasked with destroying the destroyed army until the end, i.e. What was initiated by former Defence Minister Boris Tadic, followed by Prvoslav Davinic, will most likely end the current minister, Zoran Stankovic, who allegedly has a moral obligation towards his godfather, the president of the Bujanovac municipality, Nagip Arifi, to amnest terrorists through this law now in front of lawmakers. We have an example in southern Serbia in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, where the Cypriots avoided serving a military deadline, but were therefore members of the self-proclaimed terrorist KLA and KLA BM. Which means they shot our army and the police on the other side. Now the state and this government are going to amnesty the terrorists mentioned. I must say that the current government, like the one before it, is unable to remove Albanian flags with the mention of the markings of the Shiptar terrorists in the Great Trnovac. The same Albanian flags were carried in the town of Bujanovac the other day, when the Cypriot political parties organised a gathering that was supposed to have a trial character, to see if the government in this country would react to the emphasis of separatist and terrorist markings. The same government has not responded, and the Shiparians have determined by this check that the government will probably not react even if the terrorists are behind the weapons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, twenty days ago, the president of the Bujanovac municipality, Nagip Arifi, ordered that the locks and locks be replaced in the premises of the military department located in the municipality's building. Employees working in the military department all day were unable to enter and perform their regular duties, and, on the other hand, confidential military documents could easily have come into the hands of the Shiptar terrorists. Instead of the minister and the defence ministry reacting and issuing an order for the president of the Bujanovac municipality, Nagip Arifi, to be arrested and to be responsible for the action done, the defence ministry said on the same day that there was a misunderstanding. In fact, I must point out that the only truth here is that Zoran Stankovic, as I said at the beginning of my speech, has a moral obligation towards his godfather, the President of the Bujanovac Municipality, and that is why he did not react, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to protect classified military documentation and property. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by passing this law, you will destroy this little army that remains in our country. That is why I call on the Minister of Justice, as the legislator of this law, to withdraw the law from the assembly procedure, because it will destroy the army, and by destroying the army, you will destroy the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-04-0.u24846	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? I'm concluding a principled search. The sequel is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. on the 4th item of the agenda, and at the same time I warn all MPs who will take part in the debate tomorrow that we will probably be working until the 5th item of the agenda – Amendments to the Mining Act.
