ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24982	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. There is no notice that the sittings were prevented from being attended by some of the MPs. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda for items 6 to 17 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move on to a common principle search of 6 - 17 points of the agenda: – SUPPORTS OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE PARINARY CONTRACTIONS (AUTRUCTION OF BELGRADE – NEW NOW, SCHOOL, INDICATION OF SERBIA, SERBIA, PENSION ADMINISTRATION, RESTRUCTURATION OF PRIOR – 2, PRIVATE AND FINANCE SECTOR - 2) AND GERANCE OF THE GRANGEMENT FOR THE ‘TAMNAVA’ FUNDING AS THE FUND IS NOT HERE, I GIVE A BREAK OF FIVE MINUTE, BECAUSE I HAVE INFORMATION THAT IT WILL COME ANY TIME. [[After breaks – 10,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24984	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may I apologize to you for this delay, at the beginning. Today, we have ten counterguarantees issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on various loans and two agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on mutual assistance in customs matters, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Islamic Republic of Iran. As for these two agreements, as you know, so far the Serbian Parliament has not ratified these agreements since it was the subject of ratification of the National Assembly. However, since 1 January of this year, there is no longer a common customs office and since two track approaches have been accepted to join the European Union, Member States are specifically concluding agreements on assistance in customs matters with other countries. As for concrete agreements, the agreement with the Republic of Croatia was signed on 15 December 2005. The essence of the agreement is to exchange information between the two customs services and to use this information in possible court proceedings. It also envisions the involvement of experts in these processes, as well as the protection of personal data that can be found in that information. This Agreement allows for more effective co-operation in preventing and investigating violations of customs, foreign and foreign trade rules, providing assistance in providing information in order to combat smuggling, improve customs techniques and address problems that may potentially arise in the application of customs rules. The agreement also aims to speed up the customs procedure in goods and passenger transport and to carry out appropriate co-operation in the training of staff and exchange of experts. A similar agreement is made between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, on mutual assistance in co-operation in customs matters. This agreement also regulated mutual assistance in preventing and investigating violations of customs foreign and foreign trade rules, notifications used to combat smuggling and all activities that enable the more efficient operation of these two customs services. Otherwise, the Council of Ministers of the State in February 2004 agreed to go into bilateral negotiations with Iran, while an agreement was signed in Tehran on 1 June 2005, between the government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance in resolving these issues. As for counterguarantees, as you know, the Serbian Parliament provides counterguarantees for guarantees already issued by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. However, the Public Debt Act, which did not exist until last year when it was adopted in the Serbian Parliament, did not have the obligation to give counter-guarantee to World Bank loans, so today we only have three counter-guarantees that allow the adoption of funds, while as much as seven counter-guarantees is actually formal giving a counter-guarantee for something already withdrawn in the previous period, which was approved by the National Community Assembly. So we have seven counter-guarantees on loans from the World Bank for Loans already withdrawn on the basis of ratification in the National Assembly and we only have three new counter-guarantees, which are: the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the German Development Bank. First of all, as usual when we talk about borrowing the state, I would like to highlight several important data relating to the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. The total public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 9.7 billion euros on 28 February 2006. That is 4.5 billion euros less than 31 December 2000, as the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was then 14.2 billion euros. Of these 9.7 billion euros, as is the total public debt today, which means domestic and external, 4.8 billion euros is external debt, 700m euros are guarantees issued by external loans, and this falls within a potential debt if public enterprises that have not been able to pay them, then it is also a potential public debt of the Republic of Serbia, so that the external debt of the Republic of Serbia, total and potential together, amounts to 5.5 billion euros, while all domestic public debt remains, above all, a commitment to the old foreign savings, a loan for Serbia's economic renaissance and has some smaller items. As for the participation of the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia in the gross domestic product today is 44%. If you remember 2000 in December, our total level of public debt compared to domestic product was 170%, which was reduced at the start of the government's term to slightly above 60%. After the end of the IMF arrangement and an additional debt write-off to the 700m-dollar Paris Club, which was made in February of this year, the total level of public debt fell to 44% in the gross domestic product. To remind you, one of the criteria for membership in the European Monetary Union is the level of public debt of 60%. So we are now at 44%, well below this criteria, and I must stress that Serbia is still paying so-called. Kosovo's debt, which is located on enterprises that are currently not under the authority of our fiscal authorities. The Kosovo debt is slightly above a billion dollars and, from 2000 to today, from the start of paying off debts again, around 130m dollars have been paid on behalf of the Kosovo debt interest. I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia has launched an initiative to fully write off a billion-dollar debt, plus to additionally write off the total debt of the Republic of Serbia for the amount of interest paid so far at 130m dollars. Negotiations will go, we'll see how it ends, but in any case, we expect that after the write-off of this billion-dollar debt, our total level of public debt falls to about 39% of the participation in the gross domestic product. Many say Serbia is a highly in charge of the country. That's just not true right now. We were highly in charge of the country in 2000, when we had the participation of public debt as much as 170% in gross domestic product. This can also be illustrated by the data on the level of annual public debt payments, as different figures are presented in the public entirely arbitraryly. So what the state, which the Republic of Serbia is paying this year, is an external debt of $316m and a domestic debt of $413m. We must be aware that domestic public debt is greater than external public debt. The domestic public debt, first of all, is a commitment to the old foreign currency savings, according to savings. This year, only old foreign savings are paid over 250m euros, the payment leaves on 31 May of this year and these funds, as you know, are provided in the budget for this year. As for external debt, external debt payments with this Kosovo debt, even with these billions of dollars we expect will never be written off, by 2017, $480m. So that's the maximum amount of annual foreign debt payments. This year, 316 million, 2017 will be $480 million. Along with domestic debt, old foreign savings commitments and other commitments, the maximum level of public debt repayment of the Republic of Serbia is expected in 2010. Otherwise, in this year we will pay $730 million in public debt, which we have provided in the budget this Assembly adopted for this year. Now we pay 730, and in 2010, it will be the maximum payoff rate of a billion dollars, however, given that our economy in the last two years is growing at an 8% rate, it will really be no problem for those billions of dollars to be paid in 2010, because that is an additional burden, but in the meantime, budget revenues will grow, as it happens year by year, such a trend continues in this year. In that sense, we do not need to relax, we are a medium-indebted country, but surely there is absolutely no danger of any debt crisis, if even in the future it continues to manage public finances responsibly. Once again, we now have four times as much public debt as five years ago. Serbia has actually been detached. As for the concrete counterguarantees we're talking about, they enter into this information that I've presented. So, with these counter-guarantees in front of you today, before the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly, the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia together with guarantees is 9.7 billion euros. We today have 10 counter-guarantees totalling 380m euros, of which 174m euros are related to old borrowing laws adopted in the National Community Assembly, which are now under the Serbian law on the public debt issue of counter-guarantee, so you will see that here there are two World Bank loans from the beginning of 2002 to which we give counter-guarantees. They have long been withdrawn, simply, formally under the Public Debt Act, we must give counter-guarantee to all loans, for which the Republic of Serbia guarantees and corresponds. As for new counter-guarantees for those loans that are yet to be withdrawn, three are most important, and this is primarily a counter-guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Belgrade-Novi Sad section. It is the fact that a 72m-euro bridge is being built at Beška. So, out of those 72m euros, the majority of the over 50m will be used to build a bridge at Beska to fully establish a highway between Belgrade and Novi Sad. The rest will go to the construction of certain shares of this highway. Also, here is a proposal for a counterguarantee to the European Investment Bank of 25m euros for the construction of nine new schools in places where analysis has shown that there is a lack of capacity, because we have one situation, in some cities we have more capacity in education, and somewhere we have a shortage. As for new schools, new schools will be built in Novi Sad on Veternik, Stari Pazova, Subotica, i.e. in Baimok, Zemun, two new schools, with one primary school for students with special needs, a new technical school in Vranje, a secondary medical school in Kraljev, a secondary medical school in Novi Pazar and a primary school in Smederev. These are new schools, 25m euros is the amount of this loan. As for the payment terms for this previous credit to Beska, for the Belgrade highway – Novi Sad, the loan is paid into 22 equal wars every six months, starting on 17 July 2010. Therefore, the loan is paid from 2010 to 2020 to 10 years. By 2010, it was a start-up period. The interest rate is at the level of the euro library. As for the counterguarantee on the loan of the European Investment Bank, this is also a loan with a 20-year repayment period, a five-year period and a euro libora as an interest rate. The Euro Libor is approximately, somewhere, about, below 3% on the annual level at this point. As far as the third counter-guarantee law is concerned, I apologize, this is a guarantee, not a counter-guarantee, which is the proposal for a guarantee law for the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation, or a bank for development, under the responsibility of the EPS Public Enterprise to finance a project for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the surface digging 'The Tamnava – Western Field'. It is a 16m-euro loan, with a 9m-euro donation going with it. The credit would be paid for over a period of seven years, starting in 2008 and as the name of the loan itself says – it would be used to obtain adequate mining equipment for the needs of the surface spear "Tamnava – Western field". In addition to these three guarantees and counterguarantees, all the other seven refer to World Bank loans, with some loans already being withdrawn. All these loans relating to structural adjustments have already been withdrawn. The last one was withdrawn in December of this year, after being ratified by the National Assembly. As far as project loans are concerned, we have here a loan for a project to revitalise a $25m irrigation and disposal system. Then, there is also a $25m loan here, which will be used to finance a payment consolidation and pension administration reform project in Serbia, aimed at more effectively charging contributions to the pension fund. A World Bank loan concerns the modernisation of the EPS and the Power Network of Serbia, worth 21m dollars. All other loans are loans for structural adjustment, I already said, withdrawn in the previous period. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, given that together with these counter-guarantees, amounting to 380m euros, the total level of public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 9.7 billion euros, of which the external 5.5, together with these guarantees, is only at this point 44% of our gross domestic product, given that many countries in Europe have a significantly higher debt level, primarily Croatia, Denmark, Greece, many countries, Belgium, especially – Belgium has almost 100% of the public debt in the social product, have more than we, therefore, propose that this assembly adopt these proposals, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to have a sustainable public debt service situation, as we had in these years. Of course, we still need our social product to grow, at least by 5% per year. However, given that in the last two years we have an average of 8% of growth, given that in 2004, our social product grew 9.3% in Serbia, and last year 6.5%, therefore, it is on average about 8% in two years, if such growth continues, there will indeed be no problem with the service of these debts, and especially given the possibility of additional debt cuts, even rerouting a part of the debt to the Paris Club, with Corridor 10 in the south of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24985	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24986	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, when I listened to Minister Dinkic, I got the impression that he doesn't live in this country, that there's prosperity here and that everything is booming here. Mr. Minister says he's reducing the government debt, he didn't say he increased it in 2001, when he admitted debts we didn't have to admit, so now he's talking about how they managed to write off those same debts. It boasts that Serbia has a much smaller public debt than other countries that are much more developed than Serbia and which have a much stronger economy than Serbia. Mr. Minister, you said that foreign states and those states are in debt with international associations that have money and they pump that money into the economy, and that money comes back from the economy. This is where you left our domestic economy to manage itself on the financial market, absolutely alone. You've destroyed domestic banking, you've reduced the number of banks, and that's why you've reduced competition. In the country, money that is given under much, much more unfavourable conditions is constantly pumped over foreign banks than would be common and that the state is taking care of it. When it comes to our economy, and you're the finance and economy minister, you should know that you don't even have subsidies for export companies, so, for export-related companies, you just started some export-pro promotion agency, and that's that. You're talking about how the standard of living here is growing, how production is growing, and you don't even mention, let's say, the situation of our external trade deficit; how big it is or whether it's falling. Ever since you've been in power, he's never been bigger. Never! You may have reduced it slightly compared to 2004, but it was never bigger. You ask the question, that and that stuff that comes in, where the money comes back from. What's that gonna pay for? Normally, foreign exchanges. What if you don't have enough money to pump into the economy? To pump into the market? Then what's going on? There is a threat to dinar stability and inflation in the country. Why don't you talk about it? Why don't you say that because of the pressure from the EU, you're not in a position to do domestic business, precisely because there are no favourable loans, under unfavourable conditions, to have unfavourable competition on the world and domestic market, why don't you admit that you can't, by customs regulations, allow at least here to function normally. You are setting customs rates on the basis of EU recommendations. You yourself know that our economy, as it is, cannot withstand that pressure. What stranger came to the state to build a factory? And to whom are these counterguarantees more given, and what is the purpose? I've been listening to a lot of stories here, and there's a question of the justification of all the counterguarantees. No, it's not such a great situation. What you wrote off, for at least a year, you're so successful in the economy that you're in charge. And citizens work in this economy, and the full budget of the Republic of Serbia is from that economy. Now that you're able to collect something from export through customs, it's not a debt, it can't be the country's economic policy in the long run, Mr. Minister. Now let's move on to counterguarantees, and since I've already had a situation to only talk about some law for a minute and 20 seconds on the basis of the Rules of Procedure that brought in the final DOS, now my colleague has succeeded in uniting the debate at 12 points to make me try in a minute and 20 seconds to talk about one item of the agenda. It is said that there is a counter-guarantee for Belgrade's highway -- Novi Sad 72m euros. Here's a question, Mr. Minister, why did the National Assembly decide in May or June of last year, just as the loan contract was signed, on the basis of a decision to call the concession highway Belgrade – Novi Sad. Are we going to fix someone's highway, fix it, set up infrastructure, and then, instead of states, that's why Serbian citizens are benefiting, that's what we give someone else to use to make money. Is that why you give this counterguarantee?- I'm sorry. It says here that the beneficiary of the counterguarantee is the Republic Road Directorate. If we give the counterguarantee who's the credit user. It's probably the credit user and the one who's gonna be the beneficiary of the concession. Why would the state give someone counter-guarantee and not a state body? Why? The question arises who it will be, and all indicators say that if the concession is given for 20 to 25 years, as planned, it will be good at least ten billion euros. Pretty much money. Funding schools. When a man looks quite nicely, our children should go to decent schools, have decent equipment and learning tools, etc. Our Ministry of Education, Mr. Minister, is terminating schools. It rationalizes how you experts like to say school space. I don't mind that all of these schools, which are said to be made out of credit, will be made, but because of the reduction, or rationalization of that business space, only the Ministry will have more money in the budget. We don't have to owe the state. We can do it by our means that we already have, which are already there. Schools are being shut down in Serbia, which are the oldest in Europe, in the Balkans, if you didn't know. It doesn't matter. The important thing is, we're gonna make something, we're gonna owe the state, and it doesn't matter what we have money for that purpose. The irrigation systems, they're the same, I agree, these systems are important to the state, they're important, you can see it, and you can see it now. High water levels can receive large water accumulations and should be cleaned and arranged. I'd like to ask the Minister's question: last year we had a flood, is it some higher power for these floods? It's for some, but it's not for some. It is some of Romania's fault, if any of you gentlemen of the government have dared to make a reparations request to Romania for those floods we had in Vojvodina. Nobody! Shut up! They invent that Romanian national minorities are at risk in Serbia, and that's what the president of Romania tells the Council of Europe. Furthermore, the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association loan (Serbia-Montenegro component – project for Serbia). You'd think it was okay. Let's see that too. What's this about? It is evident that here, and not the amount is said, I am not telling you, but to the citizens, because there are some special rights being mentioned, it is not said in euros, nor in dollars, it is not said in dinars, it is said in dinars, it is the special rights of towing, so we do not know how much the responsibility of Serbian citizens is, we are not obliged to know how much a right, a special right to pull costs. That's what you're supposed to write here, but the EPS user and that, million and 240 special rights to pull and Serbia's power grid is 1,660,000 special rights to pull. Mr. Minister, who is this money to, and why does our EPS always have to be in debt? What happened to the big robbery in EPS and NIS, who made that profit? Wolf Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic?- I'm sorry. And now, because two, let's say, the white-world villain robbed the country by half a billion euros, now we're taking it, so we're borrowing the state with new loans. It is likely that they could still be rich, have infrastructure in electricity, continue to earn, as they have now earned, at the expense of Serbian citizens. Reforming the pension administration, Mr. Minister, you say that this loan is taken to improve and consolidate payment in the pension fund. We heard yesterday that not even the EPS, and you can influence that, is not paying into pension and health insurance funds. So, whose charge do you mean by who? From private companies? Right away, if he doesn't pay, he's got inspection coming up, he's closing the facility, he's giving a warrant, he's making a forced payment. Who are you raising this loan for? For the EPS, to make them pay you better in the fund. But then it's crazy, then the state's incompetent; is that your goal to make anything in this country just disappear? Now, in the next counter-guarantee, you've overcome yourself, we're giving the SRJ counter-guarantee, a loan withdrawn on February 5th, 2002, says the credit user of the Republic of Serbia, is not even aware of what the money was spent on. And what's going to matter is that we're going to give up any federal state, even these freakic creatures called the state community, but come on, there's another common state, at least on paper, and now we're giving up both SRJ and the state community. It seems that this international financial factor is putting pressure on us, that we ourselves, i.e. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia abolishes the common state in advance. One way is this, especially when a special law on this loan has been passed, is by the Federal Assembly again, and we are now repealing the laws that have already been passed, we are accepting some new obligations and the question is whether the state union has any place in the UN at all. Then who represents Serbia, the state union is both before international financial organisations and the UN, to recognise a legal entity? The fact that there is no budget is your fault, Mr. Minister, your party president, Miroljub Labus, because you participated in the disappearance of the common state, you're still in it. That's your problem. You stand alone as a party to break up the common state. You're also in favour of Kosovo leaving, never mind, and give it to Kosovo, just to keep a few of us here, so we can get rich. Furthermore, item 14 – Second credit for structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia, writes: Credit user Republika Srpska. Where and who he owes to again, for 30 million and 100,000 special rights to draw, and where the money will be spent, no one knows, you didn't say that about this pay phone. You're simply borrowing the state. We give counterguarantee to something, the first thing we don't know is what it is, and the second thing, we don't even know how much it costs. The MPs are not obliged to know what special drag rights are, which is the parameter, is that something that changes, is that money? We are now giving another government task, which we are free to say is purely political marketing, the first loan for programme policy development in the financial sector. The credit has been spent a long time ago, and now the question is, since we already had various loans, what has been improved in the private and financial sectors for all this time. What's improved, what happened in the private sector, is the state even taking care of small and medium-sized enterprises, because you all advocate that they are the bearers of all business activities, even in large countries that are financially much stronger. Who did you raise this loan for? For paper projects, something to write that may never be implemented or the potential users of these loans will be someone who is privileged. So we don't know what that money's used for. Here, 38 million special drag rights, yet no one knows how much it costs, again the question is why this insane borrowing of the state and the citizens of Serbia. And the 17th point – EPS, a project for the purchase of mining equipment, for the needs of the surface spear "Tamnava - Western field". Now, ministers are asking why we owe the EPS so much, because we said the EPS, or the power grids, had already been in debt, and now we're in debt to the mines. And I ask you nicely what you did about Vuk Hamovic and Military Lazarevic, about the theft of electricity. Why don't you just arrest those two thugs, confiscate what they stole and return to the EPS. Why? You're doing it with Bogoljub Karic, so why don't you do it with those two. Or maybe they're yours? The way we're doing it now, we're in charge of the power industry. Where will those funds be returned from?- I'm sorry. And it will surely be returned by an increase in electricity prices. There has been a gathering recently, yet another assembly is announced, it will certainly be there by autumn. There is a question of where you are leading the country, Mr. Minister, especially if we know that any collection of electricity must have consequences for the citizens of Serbia, whose standard of living falls because of this accumulation, by the economy of Serbia, because the price of electricity is calculated in each product, means in one way it stimulates inflation, which again leads to the decline of the citizens' living standards and the overall power of the state to oppose international competition in any market.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24987	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24988	Thank you, here, just a few clarifications. I've remained in debt for some clarifications regarding the term "special drag rights." The special drawing rights are in fact the currency of international financial organisations, the IMF and the World Bank. The National Bank of Serbia, as well as other central banks in the world, each day publish a course list, what a special right to draw is worth. In particular, on today, one special right to pull is equal to 1.19 euros. So it is a currency, specific, which is used only in terms of the IMF and the World Bank and is therefore not something that is explained in the laws. However, it is certain that both citizens and MPs should be explained what is a special right to drag. In addition, the IMF and the World Bank are international financial institutions established by member states. We are one of the members and we have accepted this term in that statute. This is why all the contracts relating to the IMF and the World Bank mention special rights to draw. That means they have a variable rate relative to other currencies, they form their course based on a basket of foreign currencies and I say right now that course is 1.19 relative to the euro. As for these issues and misunderstandings, possibly, about World Bank loans, I will repeat once again, World Bank loans are granted for two purposes. First, these are project loans for concrete projects, such as improving the state of electricity, irrigation, pension reform or something else. So there's no dilemma about these loans. I have seen that there is now a dilemma in the previous speaker for which loans for structural adjustment, i.e. for the development of the private financial sector. Essentially, these loans have been approved by Serbia since the beginning of 2002 for the budget. They went directly to the budget and served at the time to cover the budget deficit, and on the continuum of reforms implemented in the financial and private sectors. In other words, while Serbia had deficits, it had them until 2005, World Bank loans for structural adjustment were spent to cover the budget deficit. Last year was the first year when Serbia had no deficit and surplus, so in fact we will no longer withdraw these loans for structural adjustment. Here we give, I've already explained, a counter-guarantee for some loans that have long been withdrawn and have covered the deficit in some previous periods. The only new guarantees and counterguarantees apply to these project loans for Beška, for schools, for reforms of the pension administration and for irrigation and disposal, for the cleaning of irrigation and disposal channels. I'd like to say one more thing. Given that the Republic of Serbia has a surplus in the budget this year, all the income accepted this year will be used exclusively for public investment. In the next ten days, the finance ministry will propose a billion-euro national investment plan to the government of the Republic of Serbia, where key sectors will be health, education, infrastructure and economy. So four key sectors, you're right, is not an ideal situation in Serbia. We know that there are a lot of problems and difficulties, however, by reducing the level of public debt on one hand, that we have created a budget surplus, for the first time the citizens of Serbia will be able to see what the budget surplus is for. Because when you have a budget surplus, you can invest everything you get extra, you can invest in the moment when the badgers come out on the highways, when tenders are announced for the purchase of 30,000 computers for schools, 30,000 beds for hospitals, for school benches, tables, for Belgrade highways, for the bypass around Belgrade, for the highway from Kragujevac to Corridor 10, for the gasifications in local areas, for local roads, for ecology, for many other projects, citizens will be clear for the first time why it is a good budget surplus. It's good, because we've been saving two years to make one reserve this year between 1.3 billion and 1.5 billion euros, given the estimated minimum revenue from privatisation, which we can invest in both employment and development of the economy, in infrastructure, in the treatment of people, in education, in the pillars of our system, which will bring, I'm sure, a improvement in the future. So the effect of each policy cannot be measured in one year. It has to be seen throughout the cycle, so at the end of this government's term, after four years, it'll only be clear what we've been doing in the first two years of office, and what we've been doing for the last two years, and how consistency and meaning have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24989	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24990	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have one set of counterguarantees, namely the law on the issue of counterguarantees to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. All of this can be viewed in two ways. One is routine in principle, as international financial institutions are in charge of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in appropriate volumes. The funds are being allocated to Montenegro and Serbia. What belongs to Serbia has concrete users of these financial means such as the Roads Directorate, the EPS, the Power Networks of Serbia, etc., but for those who use funds in Serbia, the type of Directorate and the like, a guarantee, i.e. the counter-guarantee of the state union Serbia-Montenegro must give Serbia as a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because these funds are also used in the area of the Republic of Serbia. Hence, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but I want to point to another aspect of the counter-guarantee. First of all, from the point of view of issues, or projects or areas where funds are used based on these borrowings from international financial organisations, including the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association, etc. First of all, I would like to say a few sentences concerning the presentation of Mr. Minister, which concerns the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia. I guess the data he gave us, and with 28 February 2006, it's true, and that's something we should be happy with. Only the dilemma remains that the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia was increased between 1992 and the end of 2000. This is a particular topic, and I know reliably, I think the minister has no other data either, that there was an increase in the debt of the Republic of Serbia during that period, primarily on the basis of the interest that was calculated in the period 1992-2000, so when it was collected at the end of 2000, we had such a duty, which was spoken of by the minister. Then, in negotiations with the Paris Club's trustees and the London Club's trustees club, there was a good deal of these interest write-offs, and there was a total reduction in the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. It is also good that the government is working to write off the public debt belonging to Kosovo and Metohija, as far as I know, that is a billion and 160 million dollars, i.e. the debt of the Republic of Serbia. And this has its logic, above all, because these funds and are used to build capital facilities in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and today the Republic of Serbia, although Kosovo and Metohija are formally and legally still part of the Republic of Serbia, is not able to benefit from any of these resources in Kosovo and Metohija, but also has an obligation to meet, or pay interest. We see that in 2006 it was about 130 million dollars. Of course, it is one of the main tasks of the Ministry of Finance and other competent institutions, to negotiate with international financial institutions with the write-off of the debt, because it makes no sense for the Republic of Serbia to pay debts based on Kosovo and Metohija, and to know that there is no revenue based on the acquisition of these capacities, i.e. capital investments built in Kosovo and Metohija. For me here is the most interesting counterguarantee to be given for the project to finance the revitalisation of the irrigation and disposal system. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the end of 2005 and the beginning of 2006 are just talking about investing in this area and how significant funds, I mean higher funds than this project was done. Whether it's 25m euros or 16m and 600,000 draws, it's not the most important thing for me at this point, but I'm sure with 25m euros, we can't solve this problem until the end, and the problem was so much expressed that there seems to me to be no more pressing work for the government and for the competent ministry than to get into a broad action to solve this problem. I think the issue of draining is even more of a problem than irrigation. You have built a Tisa-Dunav-Tisa channel, which is unfortunately clouded and which does not perform its function. You have a situation today that in Vojvodina hundreds of thousands of hectares of land are flooded without that channel working. At the same time, it was meant to serve as a drainage to drain those groundwaters, however, all of this happened to be cloudy, clogged. Despite these unregulated water streams on the side, you have a situation that also groundwaters break out to the surface and blue at hundreds of thousands of hectares of fertile areas in Vojvodina, not only in Vojvodina, but in all Serbia, in the banks of the Morava River, etc. The damage caused by this base is huge. I am afraid that in 2006, we will have such losses in agriculture, which we cannot even imagine today, because it is certainly necessary for at least a few weeks, perhaps even months, that all this great water from the space of Vojvodina and other fertile areas in Serbia is withdrawn, so that farmers can enter some activity on those land. If they get into the June of the month phase, then it's no longer possible and this year is lost until the end. It is a risk that it is precisely talking about the need for systematic planning of a wider procedure from the government's point of view and the participation of international financial institutions in financing such projects, because in the long run we seem to have little to do with it. Of course I can talk about this another way, but I don't want to spread that story. That's why I don't have a problem with whether we as a state are going to be in additional debt to that 360 or 380 million dollars, but it's a fundamental and key question of how we're going to use these funds. It's not a debt issue, it's a problem in the quality of those projects that we finance with these funds. I hope each of these projects is well designed and well imagined. The disadvantage of the proposals coming into this assembly in the form of a counterguarantee law is that they do not contain enough information on projects financed by these funds. Then we come into a situation that even as MPs, we are not informed enough about what is actually financed by these funds, how these projects are done, what is further imagined in this area, and how much financial burdens are in terms of interest, principal payments, grace period, etc. I don't think it would be difficult for all the processors of these counterguarantees, no matter where the ministry encourages them, to make more precise and concrete explanations, in terms of listing projects and in terms of the level of investment for each project, to understand what this is about. If the minister hadn't spoken about the schools, financed by the project of improving secondary and primary education where the loan was organised by the Ministry of Education and Sports, we wouldn't know it was these nine schools. We'd only know if it were nine schools, but we wouldn't know it was nine schools that were evenly deployed in Serbia. So there's Vojvodina, there's central Serbia, there's southern Serbia, etc. Of course, I can't be against funding such projects, even in this way, which means borrowing and giving appropriate counter-guarantee. It is true what Mr. Minister said – that counterguarantees are, in fact, only a potential responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, in case one who is a direct beneficiary of the funds does not ensure that these loans are returned. Let's say, at the Roads Directorate, if the Roads Directorate, 72m or 75m euros, intended for the end of the Beška bridge, does not return, then it will be denied for a part of the budget, which would otherwise be determined by the Road Directorate. Therefore, they have an economic logic in all of this, they have revenues that the Roads Directorate makes during each year and have a level of debt-based burden, they have an obligation to fund this task evenly and neatly, i.e. to serve. If this is not the Road Directorate, then the Republic of Serbia must do it, because the international community does not forgive anyone. He shouldn't even forgive them if we use them wisely and fully. I was just talking about the draining and irrigation project. I want to warn you that you can read about it yourself, that many investors will not invest in areas that are subject to erosion and rinks, in which water streams are not regulated, because investments in these areas are not safe. In what sense are they not safe? Not in a legal sense, but in a natural, geographical sense, because if you build some production capacity in an area that is prone to floods or slides, then you have an increased risk, and there are no insurance houses that would ensure that investors have no risk. Therefore, there is an additional incentive to invest much more in the project than is now the case. Just a few more sentences about the Agreement with the Republic of Iran. I hope you've read the explanation. It kind of points to the justification of that. I think this is a routine problem, because this agreement has been ratified in the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly, and we are now confirming it here in some way, because it concerns Serbia, which within the Ministry of Finance, has the Customs Administration, and this Customs Administration should co-operate with the same authorities in the Islamic Republic of Iran. For me, it is particularly important in the content of this agreement that common forces, using both human and all other technical resources, will lead to the fight against narcotics, i.e. drug trafficking and other intoxicating drugs, drugs, especially those goods that are in the treatment of excise duties, such as tobacco, alcohol, etc. So we come to the fact that both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Iran have an agreement on which we will co-operate, and for mutual benefit. I see no reason why this may be the subject of any dispute here in the Assembly, and therefore all these counter-guarantees and guarantees that have been proposed, or laws and these two agreements with Croatia and Iran, in my opinion, should also oblige the Government to work even more on agreements of this kind, especially on these projects of the type of disposal, irrigation, expansion of the school network, reform of the pension administration, which is the problem, although some may be made unnecessary now to take loans and to finance the reform of the administration in the area of retirement. I assure you that there must be such a problem and that it is necessary to rationalise the work of these services, because from the pension fund we must also finance pensioners, but also those who work on these jobs, in order for the pensioner to get his pension, which is certainly small. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore vote in favour of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24991	G17 plus Milosevic Albianic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24992	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the counterguarantees on the agenda today always raise the issue of the Serbian state's debt. I don't know why certain MPs are disturbed by the clear and unequivocal fact. The end of the contract with the IMF has written off $700m in debt now, totaling $4.7 billion. If it is said to be four times less debt, it means that the debt was 170% of gross social product in 2000, and today it is 44% compared to the gross social product. It is clearly seen from external estimates that the situation has been corrected and it is unequivocally necessary to tell citizens. This result cannot be slow because it is valid, clear, recognizable, you can take it to the Ministry of Finance, you can take it to the Republic Bureau of Statistics wherever you want, wherever you want, and all citizens of Serbia are clear, therefore, that the state of Serbia is well-resolved, to a good extent freed itself from the Balast past and debt crises of the 1990s. What other assessments of the situation in this sphere have been made? You know that Serbia has been declared by the World Bank as world champion by the speed of reform and the ambience for foreign investment here. It's a score coming from the World Bank. We can't create it. It is so and it is an actual state of mind about Serbia, about Serbia's new face, about Serbia as a country worth investing in. There were a few other estimates that should be mentioned. We know that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Assembly was successfully held in Belgrade, you saw headlines in the paper – this is Serbia's new face, worth investing in, a new image of our country, and that should be pointed out. You know the fact that we've become a trading partner with the U.S. by taking down the latest sanctions. These are all estimates coming from the international community. The evaluations, of course, also come from the European Union, because we have received a positive assessment of the feasibility study and started Stabilisation and Association negotiations, which we are very good at conducting. What is also important to point out, that all these assessments outside crown the rise of Serbia's credit rating. Three times in the previous two years has improved our country's credit rating. We're not going to have someone just to improve our credit rating if we have a problem. It is obvious that reforms have moved forward, that reforms are being implemented well in the banking system where they are best implemented, but also in the area of finance. It is clear that these estimates actually speak of us being on the right track, on the path of reform and on the European path. It should be said that in 2005, he marked a significant inflow of foreign investment, $1,600,000, which is the highest since 2000 to today. But when we talk about foreign investments, and two days ago, it was visible to everyone in Serbia, that an agreement was made in the government of the Republic of Serbia between the Austrians and the state of Serbia, an agreement that actually ends the story of "Mobtel", an agreement that withdraws the lawsuits and which clearly states that the mobile operator is going to bid with an initial price of 800m euros. Therefore, it is clear that in 2006, the level of foreign investment will exceed the figure that was in 2005, which is the desire to improve the development path that we all want, and the development allows for direct foreign investment. What was also mentioned in the discussion here is the issue of the external trade deficit. It should be said that exports increased by 30% in 2005, which significantly reduced the external trade deficit by 17% and made clear the trend and intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance. It is therefore important to say that in Serbia, in addition to the ambience that we have managed to restore our country to the world, regulate those obligations that are in the country itself, these are pensioners' debts, these are old debts that also burden the state, such as old foreign savings, loans for Serbia's rebirth, in one good way and things are regulated. It should be noted that the government of the Republic of Serbia is thrift, that it is effective, that the administration has decreased significantly by 10%. It's the first time since 2000 that the administration is shrinking. What's a wish? The desire is for the administration to be more efficient, not this big, and that's exactly what it's doing. What's the problem? When you look at the structure of employment you will see that the administration by number decreases in the state administration, you will see that employment decreases in public enterprises. What else will you see? You'll see one problem, which is that employment is increasing in local self-government. Look yourself in the eyes where you are in power in local self-government, whether employment is increasing in those places, contrary to the trend imposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That should be considered and followed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. What is important is that in 2005, the government of the Republic of Serbia started certain projects, such as apartments for couples up to 45 years old and now look at the situation. The National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits was founded. With what idea? Since the housing chain was cut in 1990, then what does it do after the last 15 years of people couldn't solve their housing problems? And the government found itself there to vouch for the loans people would take to solve, because that loan war would replace the rent they pay privately if they didn't have anywhere to live. Also, a young talent fund has been established, and associated with this story of apartments, because young people who are the best in the country are awarded awards for winning medals, which grants the best students, in fact, are motivated by these young people to stay here and contribute to the development of our country and our country. What's also important, I'll repeat that the Mobtel story has been successfully completed. It is important to say that some who stole state and national money are sanctioned and that money is being returned to the state and citizens of Serbia through projects of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, a billion euros for Serbia. That's the point. It's a clear and unequivocal thing to say to people. Of course, it will invest in different areas. Health care. Is it not good to renovate 160 health homes in Serbia? Who's gonna say that's not good?- I'm sorry. To replace old beds, to bring new equipment, to renovate clinical centres. Isn't it good that at least every school has a computer classroom? Isn't it good to replace the old benches and chairs with new ones? It is an investment in investment in the future, because we all know it is important to invest in education. Of course, investment will also be in all other areas, such as: traffic, bypasses around Belgrade, housing, energy, agriculture, police, judiciary, etc. All areas are planned for significant investments, and a billion euros for Serbia is actually the right way to get the money back to the citizens of Serbia. The G17 plus parliamentary group will certainly vote for the aforementioned counterguarantees, but at the same time we call on other parliamentary groups to do so. It was important that I make these arguments and the facts. Whoever wants to check it out. The Republic Bureau of Statistics has valid data and you can see from this data that it is clear that progress is coming in Serbia. I can say in three words that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, can be characterised by all the ministries in the government: law, order and progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24993	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted only one parliamentary group, the SRS. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and let Gordana Pop-Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24994	Mr. Mihailovic, last night, a session was interrupted and Mr. Markovic, as president of the National Assembly or you who are changing it, at the moment, were obliged to give a notice, as the session was interrupted due to some events. You're going like nothing happened. It is the first and major violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr. Markovic wrote. The second major violation of the Rules of Procedure is that you didn't give a warning to my predecessor. Ninety percent of the time he spent talking about something that's not on the agenda, and the 10% that has some touch points with the agenda doesn't match the truth. It absolutely doesn't match the truth, not even that truth based on some statistical research, because statistics don't lead a man at 44 years of age as a young man. That's what you should know. What's worth, he's in charge of these things, and among other things, he's in charge of these things. Since my predecessor has brilliantly figured out that ten laws join one debate, there are two laws that cannot possibly get into this package with these eight. These are the two agreements, where the promoter and the one representing the government over these laws acknowledge that they do not care about the state union, common life, common state-owned structures, which would cover Serbia-Montenegro's territory. It's just like nothing's worth what's happened. When you brought the Constitutional Charter, under the order of Javier Solana, you massacred one state-owned creature, and you transferred customs to the level of the republic, the Member State of the state community. Now we hear you've shut down that joint office, and now everyone can sign an agreement on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. Look at the bill, interpret who signed these agreements, with an independent state of Croatia and with Iran, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. You'll see, some Emilia. What is she? Who is she? Who authorized her to sign something? Probably the ones on that scale weren't even allowed to sign, so they planted some clerk to sign. It's past the government, and now move on. So you're destroying the state at every turn, every signature and every move. Speaking of this agreement, with you dear independent state of Croatia, you'll have to sort of explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what you wrote in Article 8. Agreement. Probably someone won't understand or that no one might understand what you wrote, so you say - controlled delivery. Of course, it is some help to prevent illegal drug trafficking, etc. First, Article 8(1) states - the customs services of the Contracting Party shall be mutually agreed, etc. He says they can use controlled delivery methods to control shipments of intoxicating drugs, previous psychotropic substances or other goods in order to detect customs offences and identify a person who commits a customs offence. It can be understood somehow, but what's going on now, he says - illegal shipments. So the signatories of the Agreement agree that something is illegal. It says: illegal shipments whose shipments are controlled (this is a Serbian language, and I see that there is a foreign variant here) can, with the consent of the competent authorities, be stopped or can be allowed to continue the movement without the goods being left intact (and it is an illegal delivery) or that the goods referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, are removed or replaced in full or in part. Mr. Dinkic, I'm absolutely sure you don't support this, no matter what I think of you both politically and personally, but I'm absolutely sure you don't support this, because this is practically legalizing illegal drug trafficking. He says this, once again to you, Minister, perhaps this Croatian variant is more difficult for you, I don't understand, 'uncontrollable shipments whose shipments are being controlled', so you control illegal deliveries, 'I can, with the consent of the authorities, be stopped or can be allowed to continue the movement', you allow as an alternative to the continuation of illegal delivery. I suppose this is what Ceda Jovanovic dictated to you, that the Legion no longer goes with diving equipment when it's exporting drugs, but someone else is legally ending through customs. How can you bring this, like this? How can you establish some relationships and mutual co-operation in illegal drug trafficking? Look how he framed you from abroad. Iran – Serbia – Croatia, as a transverse. I don't know what color that transverse is, I just know it's a transverse in which to allow legal drug trafficking towards the Western market. Please, if that is, as the gentleman said, the transversal, why the identical agreement is not written with the state of Iran. There's no such nonsense in the agreement with the state of Iran. So you're dealing with an independent state of Croatia. You're in the same business. You're allowing illegal traffic to be unpunished and drugs to not stop at our borders. Where's that big representative of yours that asked to put this on the agenda, let him come out and tell us why he's asking us to vote for this deal. I don't know what he's come up with. We can't accept this, we can't vote to establish some friendly relations with those who expelled 500,000 of our relatives. We can't go with those who were in 1991, while the Prime Minister was Stipe Mesic, exorcising people from Zagreb, Varazdin and other places, just because they are Serbs, only because they may not accept that they are citizens of the second order. There were 12% of Serbs, and now it's only 2.5%. When 12% is established, let us develop friendly relationships, not drug dealing. You are now in that opening on your own, please, illegal traffic can go on. I don't know who's writing you these laws on counterguarantees, guarantees and these things. It's just amazing that the state community gives a guarantee, so of course, since it's a non-serious creation, and it knows what Solana was making. In order to gain this seriousness, a counter-guarantee is required of one who can in fact respond, because he is the holder of rights and obligations and has some property, so a counter-guarantee is sought from the Republic of Serbia; well, in these agreements, the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee, the Republic of Serbia is the user of credit, the Republic of Serbia is this, that. There's a little bit of a mix-up here. If you wanted to have a counter-guarantee paper, then you could have ended it with one, possibly two members of this law. But by some automation, you've been inserting two, three other members that are completely pointless. The Republic gives counter-guarantee, she's a credit user and she assumes that if she doesn't repay as a credit user, then the Republic, as a counter-guarantee, will return. From where? Same cash register, same bag. Please, this isn't written like this! Third thing, very important, we have three arrangements here. One is with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the other is with the International Development Association, and the third is with the European Investment Bank. Some agreements are completely unnecessary, let's say, this agreement, that is, when it comes to the law, which is counter-guarantee, where 16 or 17m euros are provided to improve the administration, I think it concerns pensions, pension administration. As the minister said at the beginning, so that contributions would be better charged. The minister could have charged these contributions from B92. The minister knows that, he stopped that action. There was some kind of inspection, and she realized that everyone there was working on the wild. Those who, through B92, criticize you and swear to the law, and that Yugoslavia, and this, which don't wash their hair there, etc. They're law-abiding people. There went some inspection and saw, they didn't report half of it to work, did they, Mr. Minister? They need to make a contribution. There isn't. B92 can do whatever he wants. The situation is similar with other TVs, but in return, the minister received a perfectly decent term in B92 and not to attack G17 plus, but to provide media support in some actions, etc. Now something the minister knows very well isn't worth defusing. In your parliamentary group, many people ask you, Mr. Minister, what kind of economic policy is this, because they can't understand... Out of the O.R.: Don't make it up! I'm making it up? I'll get you some paper! ... They can't figure out what economic policy it is, because they can't explain it to the citizens, so they told you at one meeting, Mr. Minister, so how when we don't understand, how to explain to others, what economic policy it is. I know very well that the International Development Association, in addition to these agreements that they offer there, and they offer some loans, gives some annexes. One or two annexes can be seen, but there are two or three annexes that can't be seen. They serve as a list of political requirements conditioned by the borrower. Let me remind you, in 2001, they conditioned us that pension growth must be lower, to go with the average cost of life and growth prices to a little bit. They asked us to raise the price of electricity to some level, gradually, to that average price in Europe. They asked us to raise the price of the drugs, they asked for some more budget interventions. They put out a list of 400 companies that have to go to so-called. tender privatisation and to enable the foreign exchange to finish some of the jobs. I'm sure there are political demands for this, too, and the public needs to be informed. It's not a political request, Artman's gone, because Carly needs Mladic. It's not a political request, Mladic, so let's move on to negotiations. As you can see, it stretches. They respect your problems. However, there are serious demands that question the sovereignty of this country, and if the facts are misrepresented, what you have done in the good part of your opening presentation and have done, then you can actually create a very bad picture. I can tell you, after Djelic's change in statistical mode, how statistics show a gross social product, and just to remind you, that six times a consumer basket was changed, during that Milosavljevic, to convince us that "there is a little bit of it," and that was used by a representative of your party who was just wondering how someone could object, so everything is best in Serbia. If we neglect that statistics and these statements, then I must remind you, Minister, because I know that you will understand, unlike some of your parliamentary group, we have been opening a very important issue for a very long time, where the social development of the Republic of Serbia lies. Who needs to secure the battery? How do you need to secure the battery? Whether building infrastructure or this whole wide thing, which is mandatory, has some touching points with the state, whether it's a cost or something new. If we have such a surplus, why are we in charge? You don't need much knowledge from the economy. If we have a surplus, it means we've provided funds that we can finance our infrastructure development, and above all, I mean infrastructure. Where's the development policy? Is this society capable of leaving something at the end of the year to develop? These are very important issues to which there is no programme response from this government. The last one couldn't do anything, you know, I can't compare you to them, really. They didn't have anything. With them, Djelic, a man from Mars fell, had no idea what was going on in Serbia, told everything and everything, wrote some laws. No law is applicable. Where's the development? Who provides development funds, and when is it due? I'm absolutely sure with this verse, without some program, we're in a situation where we've been from fifty-five years to eighty-something years. Just to remind you, when the '80s and some years were made a cross section, so people also saw for themselves what was done these years and when they cut our debt to abroad, then there was the conclusion that all that was social development, some newfound value was the result of some loans and loans. So society has shown its inability to single out for its development. So I'm opening the question again, is that the cost, where the funds for future development are accumulated, and when we get into a situation that we have to borrow? You see, the railroad guys got into some co-production two years ago, with these NDH guys, with Radet Končar, so they can fix the locomotives, make them better. Of course, it went to fix everything, came back, and locomotives unusable. Look, it doesn't make any sense, because it's about the concession, you've called us here for everything and you said, tomorrow the concessions are going to be, but these radicals are causing some problems. Why is the bridge at Beška outside the concession arrangement. In Vela's version of the concession, he gives the concessionaire and the part that was built from Toponica to the average, although it's already been built, he gives the future concession, but due to alleged maintenance. When that's understood, then we don't need the Road Directorate at all. You can turn everything off. Since there are more of my colleagues who want to talk, I will break up here and take advantage of the opportunity when it comes to concrete amendments and laws to show you that we are not against development, we are about to make schools, make roads, bridges, but explain to us, if it's a surplus on all sides, you said, a billion surpluses, of which you invest a little on these things, don't get into these loans, because what's written down, as you interpret it, you just forgot to say that it was incurable. So there was essentially no claim against us, and the state from 1992 to 2000 – October 5, and if it wanted to, could not be in charge because it was under sanctions. The state expressed its willingness to properly service its obligations on international loans, so some received those wars, and many years they refused to accept, because it was also a measure of how to destroy us. The federal budget has always planned funds to service the debt to the abroad. When you talk about duty, when you talk about it epochally, someone's in charge before, you attack Tito, if you attack him, but don't let what you think of him talk about someone who was in power in 1998 or 1999. That, in 1998 and 1999, and that he wanted, he couldn't take the loan. When he was allowed to give credit. There were only two arrangements, one was for those tracks, and the other was for the oil. I agree that there's a possibility that it's being criticised, whether it was good, but through a 90-year-old debt, so you can master the facts so you know what's true, because it really seems funny when you say, you're in charge, and then you say, you're out of the whole world, so you've been running an isolation policy, and you say here, you're in debt. It doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24995	The word has a finance minister. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24996	Here is an clarification on the issue of controlling the delivery of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Croatia, and with Iran in mutual assistance in customs matters. You have not probably read carefully, in both agreements there is a member controlling the delivery, therefore, in the Agreement with Croatia and the Agreement with Iran, and in the Agreement with Croatia it is Article 8 and in the Agreement with Iran it is Article 11. So you probably didn't read it in detail. Why is this member standing? I reacted the same way you did when I first read it, I asked the competent people in customs, the thing is next. Under the rules of the World Customs Organisation, the police and customs service if they see drugs being smuggled, they have the right, if national legislation allows, ours to enable, and also Croatian, Iranian, in general, all those who are members of the World Customs Organisation to deliberately release a smaller shipment to catch a bigger fish in the next round. So, a controlled missing illegal trade, if it's a small amount, to detect the entire chain and to execute capture at the moment when the biggest delivery is at stake. It's an explanation given to me as a finance minister from customs and police. So this member has nothing to do with finance, has to do with security. Just thanks to the application of that member, last year our customs office did something that belongs to the domain of the largest European institutions, four kilos of cocaine has been caught, which has been the biggest seizure in the last few years, and 300 kilos of cocaine and only in one capture. So once again I want to thank those customs officers who did this, they've already got a one-year salary as a reward from the Ministry of Finance, it's really a little relative to what they did. I hope that our customs will continue to be among the world's leading to the discovery of drug trafficking. So, all customs services coordinate, co-operate, report, and when there is some doubt, even when it is discovered, they have to keep it legally recorded, report to their colleagues, and then get caught where the delivery centre is, because otherwise, they would have a smaller effect. That's an explanation. So, I'm no expert on this area, but that's the explanation they gave me. As far as the second part of the previous exhibition is concerned, I think it's a matter of clarification. It is not unwarranted to wonder, why, in a situation where we have a budget surplus, when we will have a privatisation income of one billion and three hundred to one billion and a half euros, at least this year, except in new borrowings, and that is the question that was raised here. However, here is the answer to that question. It is true that, when we have a budget surplus, all privatisation income can go for investments and to settle some of the previous debts that exist, debts in the pharmaceutical industry, debts to the military, or to suppliers, pensioners' debts, and everything else. It's safe, it's enough to invest, so the question is why new loans, because the idea of making two billion is with a billion. So let's not invest just a billion, from our own resources, and where the infrastructure is concerned, let's add and do more. Here's an example, in the national investment plan, which we will propose to the government next week, that is, to be discussed in two weeks at the government, we will propose that 200 million go for the road infrastructure, 200m euros. However, needs are not only on key corridors. Key corridors cannot be created with 200m euros. This concession is not only the direction from Saturday to Belgrade, but also from Belgrade to Požega, since we want to develop western Serbia as well. In that sense, the concession is worth 800m euros. The fact is that it is less profitable, from a financial point of view, from Belgrade to Požega, than Belgrade -- Subotica. It is clear that there is more traffic and that is why it is put under concession and something that we are in charge of, in order to finance the development of another part of our country, which is western Serbia. So, in order for Western Serbia to develop faster than before, that is how we use these effects. Secondly, with these 200m euros, when you look at the needs of local roads, every municipality, every place has a need to develop local roads, especially in those underdeveloped areas, where rural roads need to be paved. You need maltenes close to a million euros for each municipality to finish, to make each municipality look the way it should, with paved local roads. The first-stage tour around Belgrade costs 120m euros and it would be completely irrational for us to now give 120m euros from the privatisation revenues for the bypass around Belgrade, when we can make an arrangement that we are now negotiating with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank; we give a third and a third of this bank a third so that Serbia – 40m and 40m European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, and we have 40m from the privatisation revenues for the bypass, and we have 160m for other projects. The idea of actually finishing some important routes on the highways, to Corridor 10, first of all Kragujevac to connect with Corridor 10, means Batocino. So those places that had a sudden expansion with good local politics and attracted foreign investors and made industrial zones, like Indjia. To connect India with Corridor 10, it's small directions, but a huge traffic jam. Then, let's make a good journey from Loznica to Šapac, make one valid road from Zaječar to Književci, to the Old Mountain. Because we want the Old Mountain to make a miracle of the ski center, with 100km of trails, to connect Svrljag with the Old Mountain, too, to complete the direction from Nis and to have appropriate investments in that part of Serbia. We talked to Mr. Bogdanovic, mayor of Belgrade, about traffic in Belgrade. It's unbearable. Gazela cannot be reconstructed unless the work on the bypass is accelerated. So, it takes not only one, but two bridges in Belgrade: this one through the Sava to finance the City of Belgrade, and we from the Republic of Serbia to finance the bridge at Vinca and thus completely bypass Belgrade with freight traffic. We made a deal with Mr. Bogdanovic. The question was how to fund two bridges when there's no money, when they only have money for one bridge. We said, "Here, now we're done with "Mobtel," we have safe income, why wait for two bridges to be built for five years, let's suddenly build two bridges. So that's what the surplus is, plus the bridge in the King, of course. This is a bridge that the local self-government has already found to make another tape, meaning a bridge that connects. In any case, logic is, if we are already building infrastructure, there are European banks, such as the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will gladly co-finance projects. We'll go, so we don't wait for the procedure, we'll start with the bypasses around Belgrade as soon as we adopt this plan at the government, and then we'll negotiate for the loans. Yesterday we talked about using these funds in fact. Next week, I expect the government to adopt this national investment plan. After that, a selection of all investment needs will be carried out in Serbia, in various areas. It's going to make a priority order, it's going to make so-called. the general plan and then the specific plans for each area will be implemented in this way. The plan is that in the infrastructure, apart from the privatisation funds, we hire additional loans, to make it an effect on the dinar of our investment, two more dinars of credit, in order to make the maximum effects. Serbia needs fast construction of infrastructure for faster economic development. So, and the concession that goes from Saturday to Požega, let's see how to build Corridor 10 from Nis to the Bulgarian border and from Leskovec to Presevo and plus these important regional roads. I forgot another important regional route. Romania's great importance lately must be made a good way from Belgrade to Vrsac, i.e. to the Romanian border. So these are all the directions that are being planned. It's impossible to close all of this with only 200m euros. It takes both concessions and credit and privatisation revenues, if we want to build everything at once. Maybe not, really, all of this at once, but a lot of these projects can go once. And when we know that apart from these roads, we're going to make industrial parks, industrial zones, I'm sure we're going to significantly launch economic activity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24997	Here you go, Mr. Albianic, then Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24998	I'm sorry, I'll be real quick, but Mr. Krasic found it appropriate to twist certain things that I said, to misrepresent the public. I did not say that there is good living in Serbia and that honey and milk flow here, but I made it clear what improvements are and what progress looks like. The consumer basket, which you mentioned, in 2000 there were three salaries for a single consumer basket. Today it takes one salary for one consumer basket. I'm not going to say that's enough, of course it's not because people have other obligations, such as electricity bills, communals, telephones, etc. It means it's not enough, but it's a clear trend of progress. Also, the average salary in 2000 was 40 euros, and today it is 220. If you're asking me if it's enough, of course it's not. And don't twist my words and my exposure. Speaking of gross domestic product and looking at Serbia in the last 20 years, you will notice that we have a slight growth of up to the 1980s. Between the 1980s and 1990s, there is no growth of gross domestic product, and then for the first time, in fact, there is a debt crisis. Between 1990 and 2000, we have a sudden decline in gross domestic product and since 2001 we have a return to growth. And that's the facts, that's the clear stuff, that's the exact data, whether you accept it or not. That's your exact data. And don't tell me to turn around and mention Tito, who I didn't mention. You guys used to go up to Santa's with a Glue. It is clear that if it is better in Serbia today, it is the feeling of any individual who can judge it. I can't say it's better instead of people. It's not good enough, but everything seems to be getting better. Here, I'm going to take an example of my father receiving a farm pension of 4,800 dinars today. I ask him if the situation is better in Serbia today or not, and he tells me – he is. I ask him if he can tell me the reasons, and he says – I have a farm pension today, it was gone or there was a debt for agricultural pensions. Today it is possible for a farmer to apply for a agricultural loan. Mr. Chairman, can you calm these radicals down because they won't allow it. It's nice what they're getting, but the citizens of Serbia... (President: You're out of time, Mr. Albianic. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. So, please, especially the citizens who listen to us, I'm reading the exact data, and I'm not letting my words turn around here at the pay phone. Whether you want to or not, progress in Serbia exists. The work of the government of the Republic of Serbia is such that progress in the future will still be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u24999	I thank you, Mr. Albianic, just more peasants to believe. Here you go, Mr. Beauty, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25000	If I were Albianic's father, I'd be glad to see my son on TV, and that's a perfectly normal feeling. I understand your father, Mr. Albianic, and, of course, I have nothing to add, it's emotions and it's supposed to be nurtured. But no Mr. Dinkic, he's busy again. What's written in this agreement with NDH, in Article 8, and what's in Article 11 with the Republic of Iran, are two different things, completely different things. First, it's not hard to see the difference visually. Article 8 has two positions, Article 11 is unique. And in Article 11, with the Republic of Iran, you can recognize what the minister was saying. He says, "Foreign Contracting Parties may, on the basis of mutual arrangements, decide to allow entry into, crossing through or out of their territory, goods known or suspected of being the subject of traffic, with or under the control of the competent authorities, and in order to investigate and combat customs offences," etc. This means that the states have agreed – we can do a little, what Dinkic says, and miss some goods, to catch some who are in charge, but it stands with the Republic of Iran, with NDH it does not stand. One interpretation cannot conclude that what is in Article 11. That's the first thing. The second thing, which is very important, is that no one in this room has disputed the government's understanding that the detours, bridges, however, should be built, did not mention railways, and other infrastructure facilities. Why would radicals object to an initiative to build a school in that territory where there is no one object that could be a school, and there is a need, there are children etc? We do not object, but you could hear Mr Arsic, he explained it very clearly here, several times – if the fact that schools are being shut down in some territories where democracy is more unfavourable and these objects are being sold, issued, etc., then those funds should be directed to build new schools in some territories where there is a need. I don't know why you object to this, which is very logical. That's what any Serbian host would tell you, and your father, Mr. Albianic, is a peasant man, not a hollow, but a man's host, and he's quite a leper. You object to our elemental logic. What Mr Dinkic deliberately avoided to answer, and it refers to whether we will be able, at the moment he is due to return, to return it to the way it is prescribed by the agreements that are now being given counterguarantee. We don't know these agreements, because it's been adopted in the building across the street, probably some longer deadlines, probably the war of 22, it's half-year, so it's 11 years, probably four or five years doesn't pay anything, waits, etc. What are the economic movements in our country? They are unfavourable, from the perspective of economic space. Between 900,000 and a million people are jobless, a very unfavourable age structure of people waiting for work. A 50-year-old man can get a job today. New people, new jobs, gone. There are no new jobs! (President: Time.) Just one more sentence. If we extract some data from the statistics, rather than dissipating to see what is behind it, then we can give a bad picture given both by Mr Dinkic and Mr Albianic. There's goods, it's mostly sides, there's no goods, there's something small about food and other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25001	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25002	Dear colleagues, it is a great inspiration to go out for this pay phone when Minister Dinkic is there, even in the hallway, but when he follows the meeting, because he really has something to say. It is also a great inspiration to go out for a pay phone when it is obvious that no one other than the SRS is interested in commenting on what the Government has proposed to us in the form of counterguarantee for adoption, except for one MP who, of course, must support his party colleague, who is acting as minister, but has done so in an unfortunate way, telling us that reforms have moved on. I wrote it down, like I knew what would be controversial. He says, "Reforms have moved away as soon as we get good grades." I put a question mark here – from whom? And you say, from the European Union, and we know that they are very kind to us, or to some world or to some west, which means we're on a good path. I'm familiar with this slogan: "Serbia on the Right Way." I don't just know where we're gonna get to. Given what statistics are and how much a lying method is, if she is ordered to work in such a way as to give false results, when we talk about how much the average salary has been increased, and we know that there used to be two million people, and now there's a million people working, and the same pay fund, so when it's divided, some of them who are math teachers here, they should know that it's something that's not right. Therefore, neither we live better nor we will live better, until there is full employment in this Serbia. Are there any such countries in the world? There is, but unfortunately, in the family, either one member or one member does not work, so let's not let that average salary know how much, it's not enough. I understand that there are those here who are very happy with their status, they would have reason to be here and to honor, and we're going to buy someone a chandelier for emigration, and that one can be euphoric for this speaker. As an average citizen, on average referred to what's going on in the country, I'm only going to ask those questions people ask me when they meet me on the street. What I would tell them from all of this, if I could read them what this is for, what we took credit for, and what we are now giving the counterguarantees of the Republic of Serbia, nothing would be clear to anyone. They would say: what is it, why did we take, what will be spent or did someone tell us what it was already spent on, whether we had to take credit or could it from other funds, so we have a surplus in the budget, and we don't spend that surplus on these things, and do we have to invest so much in infrastructure, just from credit funds, or maybe NATO's pact makes us take care of that infrastructure, since Vuk Draskovic signed, unauthorized and unconstitutional, that agreement with NATO on free passage through our territory?- I'm sorry. Maybe their convoys won't be able to go through these holes of ours, but they need a little better roads. So, not enough, first of all, to explain what we've got for those who have an average understanding of matter, and since we're typical representatives of this people, I qualify myself as such. So, I mean, I'm on average into this matter and I'm not much of an economic expert, but I know, and the minister confirmed it to me, and he answered me nicely when I asked him from the bench what our external trade deficit was, and he said, in 2005, it was $6,022,3 billion, and he was $7 billion. So, something a little smaller, whether because we've exported more or because of VAT, it's already a matter for experts, that they evaluate, but it looks like it's because of this other one. The foreign debt is 11.6 billion. He doesn't shrink or very little. Why is that? Because we have nothing to take out. If you ask any country that wants to cooperate with us and that imports from Serbia some goods that it likes or that it pays, they will say – I cannot ensure the continued import of these goods of the same quality. Because we don't have any more serious companies in this country. That is our problem, and that is why we cannot say that Serbia is on the right track, because it is not on the right track. She's not on the right track, because she was wrong at the start. He couldn't buy an U.S. Steel for $23 million, and tomorrow U.S. "Steel" listed it as his property at 600 million. So much is worth, so much they estimated when they wrote down what their assets were worth, 600 million. We gave for 23 and took over the debt. Who are we doing this to, and how is it that someone normal doesn't suspect that any of it has any use?- I'm sorry. It's normal to suspect, and why we let him suspect. We gave everything alive we could, whatever we were asked for, no privatisation was done properly, there's some malversion in each one. We can ask Minister Dinkic here a hundred questions related to the destruction of the Plattice Service, the National Savings Bank, other various sales, the destruction of domestic banks, and I don't know what. Where's the money he was chasing in Cyprus? He doesn't find them anywhere or find them, so he's got them somewhere else, he's got as many islands as we can get to, and we can't find them on the map. Here's this, say, one loan we took to build these seven schools. I was one of those, went to sign that memo with the International Investment Fund. To tell you the truth, I went as the president of the municipality to sign it, because it's undeniable and we were glad to qualify and enter the plan to build a school in the settlement of 'Altina', since these children, here's the exact information, there are 778 of them, going to five elementary schools that are so far away that they have to cross the highway. It is indeed insecure and problematic, and now a school needs to be built, to sign the agreement, the Ministry, local self-government and the International Investment Fund. However, praises, praises, gratitude to them for giving 50% of the loan, so 25m euros, and the state of Serbia provides 25m euros in order to build seven schools, believe me they called me to say something I said I didn't answer the word. I was embarrassed to spit them out directly and tell them the truth, because these schools are not built by the European Investment Fund, but by the citizens of Serbia who are going to repay the loan. All you have to do is call things a real name. So we're making those seven schools ourselves, but we didn't have the money now to build seven, we could have started three, but we took more credits to do it in a year or a year or a half, because we're in a hurry. It is not worth it, when the finance minister likes to go anywhere in Serbia, changes three cities during the day, he says - we are doing a reconstruction of our health homes here, and then talks about buying beds. It's not a health home reconstruction. I guess the health care network is important for this Serbia, whether it's right, whether it has good equipment, not bed change. Beds will buy themselves homes of health, local self-government, there are always donors to buy 30 beds. Things are completely cataractly set up. If we're constantly on debt write-offs, and we're always in the same debt, then there's something wrong with that math, and you're living up there and you can't say, and you can't even say that you're saying that you're living better. If a month's increase in percentage of your salary is allocated only for utility costs, including electricity and water, telephone, Internet, which has become normal for every house to have, various cable programs and everything else, then what's left for your life. You're supposed to be teaching kids. You, Mr. Albian, have little children, you don't know what it is. You don't know how much one book costs for a student; how much it costs one drink, one date a week, and if you have a son so a girl has to pay for a drink or a movie, let me ask you if you can set him up with your salary a month. Imagine how miserable those where one works or where no one works. That's why everything that's going on in Serbia. The state is alarming. No matter how many numbers you've given yourself and tried to claim it's better, get out on the street, ask people, talk to them, they'll tell you how it is. It is not true that local self-government employs an increasing number of people. I can tell you that's not the case. But there's a problem, there's a legal vacuum where officials of local self-government didn't fall under that Law on civil servants and civil servants, so it's kind of unregulated. We expect it to be regulated very quickly. There's a lot of pay gaps. In some claim to local self-government, this is the latest, the minister asked for the payments to be returned to September. He'd have to prove to us how it's possible to apply the law that was passed in November, you know, when we brought the budget, and it's known when it was September, so, before that, there were some increases, let's say for September, and he should know that all payments are in the course of the year, for any month, only advances to the final account. So, in December, you can pay for January, February and March until you draw a line on the form and say final. That's what the minister knows as much as he was an assistant at law school, but since he doesn't want to know, he's now estimated that he needs to get a little banged up in local self-governments, which are poor anyway, so he can buy some money to calm some enlighteners, but he'll hardly be able to calm them down.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25003	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25004	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know, ma'am, why it bothers you with the sentence - Serbia on the right path. I don't know what you'd want him to be on the wrong track, so you'd probably feel better then?- I'm sorry. You said the statistics were fake. Does this mean that you have now admitted, while you were in power, that you falsely presented the data using statistics? I responsibly claim that the data that the Republic Statistics Institute is doing today are accurate, valid and correct. I cannot believe that there are people in Serbia, even if they were MPs of the SRS, that they want it to be bad in Serbia. You're a monkey, you're a monkey. Ma'am, don't throw, don't throw so vulgarly. The chairman is required to warn you. So I can't believe that in Serbia, even if they were MPs of the SRS, they want it to be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25005	Please, let's hear from each other. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25006	I can't believe you're bothered by law and order. Why does it bother you? What would you like? You say here that payment traffic has been destroyed, and the fact is that payment traffic has been transferred to banks in a very efficient way and you are bothered that it works as well as in other European countries today. You asked where the money was, what about the money in Cyprus, completely wrong. The question is addressed to you. You have to ask yourself that question, because when that money went away you were in power and I ask you a question – where is the money that you brought out of the country or helped to get out? You've come to realize that we owe you more and more. You're not worth the facts and data that 4.7 billion dollars is a reduction in debt, a reduced discharge for the whole country and citizens. What's it worth telling you when you want to turn the data around? You're saying it's not accurate that there's more employment in local self-government. That's the exact data. For example, the municipality of Shid: the president of the SRS municipality, fired nine, received 56 people. Where are you going to put your shame here in public? Not to mention that people who don't meet legal requirements work in certain places and can't force the president of the municipality to respect the law. Is that why you're bothered by law and order?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25007	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then the president of the municipality of Šid.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25008	Please, the chairman, in the future, remind the MPs when he so directly insults the MPs of the SRS and some Serbian citizens who so identify with us in a negative sense. That's not nice, first of all. You may not have followed closely, but his intention was very bad, since we know how Mr. Albianic behaves and is very rude. I stood up not because of us, but because of those citizens that you so uglyly compared to us, so rude, so simple, and I don't know how often it qualify us, those who spread hate language and so on. Serbia is not on the right track, you ruin Serbia daily! There's no order, there's no law. You're under arrest yesterday. You can't arrest him. Today in the paper, yesterday everyone asks what Natasha says about the pay phone, and today all the newspapers are writing about it. Who and on what grounds goes and arrests the relatives of General Mladic? Is that the state where the law rules? What's that? Is that the established dictatorship here? Don't you all act crazy – I'm not responsible for this resort, ask Jocic this, he can't get anyone to ask him something yesterday, ask Dinkic this, he asks Kostunica and what I know. But, guys, you're all responsible for this. Not all of us can now – imagine that I was accidentally in contact with someone who may have had some contact with General Mladic, I don't know where either. You can arrest all of us. These text messages are coming -- can I come sleep with you for three days, something's chasing me these days, something like that. You're so stupid, you're gonna take it like we're really hiding General Mladic, you're gonna arrest us all. Keep an eye on what you're doing, it's nobody's fault, what they say is "burned to dawn"!- I'm sorry. Time is bringing new problems, Danube's rolling, Sava's flowing, we can't step on the same day and at the same time. One day, someone will ask you what you've been doing. Not after the press chases you to stay out of the way and not answer the question. Mr. Jocic needs to call a press conference to tell us what's going on. Is it the same order, if he knows whether he doesn't know whether he's out of authority or not, and, behold, General, if you hear me and now don't give yourself up alive, not by any chance to these in The Hague?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people wanted me to be the president of the Shid Municipality in the last election. I am and am adequately doing my part and I am doing everything by law and by the authority of Mr Albianić. The government has concluded that 10% of workers in all municipalities, not just in the municipality of Shyd. We did it at the government's conclusion. Otherwise, if we hadn't, we wouldn't have gotten the government's funding, because you threatened it with one conclusion. The fact that you said we hired 56, based on these nine, that's just a lie, that's what you made up, and I can prove it whenever you want. We can, by law, employ 100 workers for a certain period of time, which does not bear the sanctions on the fired nine, who have been indefinitely. I realized that Mr. Albianic was not assigned to these jobs and that he did not know what it was about. That's why I'm saying, to Serbian lawmakers and citizens, that most likely the other presidents of the municipalities will have problems like I do, because they taught these nine to sue the municipality because they lost their jobs, although we did everything by law and paid them off, paid them compensation under the law, and they said in court that they think they were rewarded for their work, so they paid that money. That's what experts taught them to do. This will be a unique case in Serbia and in the judiciary at all that someone who has acted under the law has received a solution on surplus labour, received severance, sued the court, and believe the dispute is being conducted, and now we are the main defendants. They send their inspections, the inspections come, they give orders to get back to work, everything's out of your mind. First, he says fire you, and when you fire them, they come and say return them. And what are we doing? We're going from hollow to empty, and this is reflected by us experts. Mr. Albianic, if there's anything else you don't know about the Shid municipality, feel free to ask me, I'll explain it to you and the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25011	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25012	Mr. Chairman, it is good that you take care of some order, because you have disrupted the scenarios made by Mladja and Albianic, because they wanted to absolutely destroy this discussion, which usually happens when it comes to laws that defend against this assembly, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25013	I never took care of the script, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25014	Yeah, you broke their script. It's about Article 104. I'm not personally offended when I go out, Mr. Albianic, or anyone, because morale is not debated at the assembly speaker, but elsewhere. However, it really works offensively for people who spend a lot of time in the National Assembly, write amendments, participate in the debate, are dedicated to this job that they have been paid for, and then one man, like that, walks past the congregation, let’s stop by and say something and go home. What else is going on? Look, Mr. Angelkovic, remember this well. It is quite obvious that there is a sharp conflict within DOS, this original DOS. Let me remind you how they're changing harder now. Mladjan Dinkic went to Cyprus to look for money, told the public – I found money, returned it, billions and 700 coming in a few days. After that, Velja appeared who did not believe Junior, went to Cyprus, checked and said – there was nothing I could do, since the younger one had left before me and he ended it better. Then, the third one who left was Vladan Batic; and this holy triumph is fighting in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25015	I was just afraid you'd forget him.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25016	I can't forget them at all. After quarreling, Batic now initiates proceedings against Velimir Ilic and Mladjan Dinkic with the question – where are our money. From Cyprus, money sailed to another island, a third island, so something comes back here in some illegal ways, and apparently this illegal traffic is under control, like the NDH thing you've concluded. Now come here Mr. Albianic, a man used to balloons, pots, etc. And he, as an expert of that party of his, says, at a time when you were in power, and points to radicals, the money went to Cyprus. In this assembly, the man who wrote a book on ministerial travels to Cyprus, I think his name is Dragan Vlahovic, has eighty-something sides, with a photocopy of documentation, everything and everything, exactly with the dates when he was wearing and how he wore it. As the governor of the National Bank of Cyprus waited at the airport and why it was done. And Mladja was also in control of Borka Vukic, who you attacked and turned out to be a genius, as Mr Dinkic said. It is a genius for banking, etc. There's no crime, there's nothing. Mladjan Dinkic collected 82 boxes of forms of the 10-54 National Bank at the time of Yugoslavia (which was the form with which foreign exchanges were legally exported) and placed here and not to let anyone see what was and what was paid and how was paid and where it was. (President: Time.) ) You see, these thugs abuse it, so we're being attacked by radicals for a period when we weren't in power, but we were in opposition, and some of us were even in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25017	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr. Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25018	Mr. Angelkovic, besides being a good leader of this assembly whenever you chair, you're a little wrong. You've given this Albian a lot of permission. So far, you've had to warn him at least a few times. This kind of behavior in the congregation really doesn't suit the MP, but well, he'll get it, too, probably, if he goes on like this. (President: I'm tolerated, Mr. Peric, I'm not punishing anyone. ) For two years now in this congregation and in these benches I have listened to Mr Albianić and he keeps talking, we are on a good path, we are on a good path, and we have not yet set foot in the way. We're certainly on a good path without going back from the crash, and that's true. It's getting worse than it used to be. He's talking about consumer baskets, and I heard him 20, 30 times, all the time some baskets, and there were two for pay, and there was one for pay, etc. Mr. Albianic, now with a salary, you can walk ten empty baskets around the supermarket, no one's defending you. Next, I didn't realize, I've been thinking for a long time, why Mr. Albianic, as head of the parliamentary club, always defends Mr. Dinkic and when he defends him, he's just defenseless. Okay, he'll figure it out. He's doing more damage than he's doing. But I realized, it specifically defends him when he's supposed to be in charge of the state around some guarantees, about some loans. In the end, I tied it up and realized that it was probably out of those debts that Dinkic gave him for balloons, when someone died to play balloons and look forward. It's not normal for one man and more for the MP, but it's up to him. We have experts now, and there are special cases, so the people say, come on, let him go, he's brainless... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25019	Thank you, Mr. Peric, Mr. Albianic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25020	So, there's no reason to replicate Mr. Peric, he's had a good time here. The only thing I'm saying is that the speaker I'm replicating, in fact, admitted that in Shid, people are employed for a certain time. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. People receive salaries and contributions as well as employees indefinitely. This means that employment in the municipality of Šid has increased and that information has been received from citizens of the municipality of Šid, and all of this will be tried by citizens in the elections. Now I urge us to continue our work on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25021	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25022	This MP who belongs to a party whose name in Serbia as a synonym is translated as a thief, not a code, but a thief, dares here to lie and speak falsely, when it comes to the municipality of Shid and other municipalities in Serbia. I even talk about municipalities where there are no Serb radicals, when it is known that employment in municipalities is exclusively about the decision, i.e. the conclusion of Mladjan Dinkic, I will not tell the Government, but, however, the government is behind it. Mladjan Dinkic is the one who threatens and reminds that he is here, when we discussed the budget, literally threatened that all those who are budget users will not pay salaries unless they reduce the number of employees he is asking for. First immediately at the beginning of this year, after the New Year's holidays, finely raises salaries for employees in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It goes, like, undetected, and immediately after that, he agreed with Nenad Bogdanovic to raise salaries in the city administration. And today, the highest salaries are employed by the city administration in Belgrade and the government of the Republic of Serbia, I mean the administration. Then Nenad Bogdanovic sends over Belgrade and Dinkic further through Serbia to reduce the number of employees and reduce salaries by 20% for local self-government employees in Serbia. He who advocates law and order should at least say what's true. What he's saying is that his party is characterized by, that is, this government, order, law and progress, I think that the funniest coin is for every citizen of Serbia. Because if it wasn't once the order in Serbia, it's gone today. If there was ever a violation of the law in Serbia, it breaks today. When the top of the government and the top of the government in Serbia (not only now, but since 2000) is involved in the biggest criminal and corruption affairs, if that is the order and if it is the law and if it is for the order of someone who is waving balloons, next to where the funeral of the former President of the Republic is held, then, indeed, let it be honor for him and his order and his law. And what progress there is in Serbia, all Serbian citizens know that. You can talk here as much as you want about your statistical lies and about your various data that you are trying to convince Serbian citizens to live well. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens have never lived up there. I'm not looking forward to it, even if you're... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Even if you were also your representatives in the government, I would be much happier if today the citizens of Serbia lived at least a little better or at least the same way they did. But unfortunately, they live much, much worse. The only hope is that you will have to call the elections soon and that Serbian citizens will broom you with a broom.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25023	Thank you. Do you want a replica or a Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, it's you first, so on you. I think we should finally get (I, as you remember on several occasions asked for) how many employees were in the municipalities in 2000, how many in 2003, and now it's time to get for January 1, 2005 and then see exactly who's what we're hiring. Because the fact is that in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 at the very least, the number of employees in local self-government was likely doubled. In order not to discuss who he is, if he does not have the possibility of obtaining from the municipalities, and I have repeatedly asked for it on the Finance Committee and here in the Assembly, then it is the order (Mr Albianić, wait a little) from social and pension insurance to get proof of how much he was registered in the PIO Fund on 1 January 2000, 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2005, so that all MPs know how much he was employed and how much he employed in local self-government. Excuse me and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25024	Mr. Chairman, I am sorry that you allow multiple times, not only now, to use extremely inappropriate words, which humiliate not only the institution, but also the people sitting in it, and especially the citizens of Serbia who listen to all this. With indignity, I refuse these primitive and leprosy words that are heard, and above all, the insult, which I personally express myself to, because I belong to the party G17 plus, which I am proud of. And if someone told me that I'm a thief, not to protest, but I don't agree in such a perceptive, primitive way. I'm asking you to be polite as I speak, because I haven't thrown any of you away, and I don't particularly allow you to talk to me and qualify me in a way that is false, rude and uncivilized. It's a shame, I'm yelling, of course, because I'm not a thief, I've been in this House for three months, and you've been sitting for 12 years. Your mouth is full of concern for the people, your mouth is full of great justice, shame... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: You barely came.) I barely came? Shame on you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Go away. To stay away from, to whom should I bow? Here they give a ton of semi-literate and semi-intelligent people who handle three or four downfalls, laughing at those who handle five downfalls, and that's what we've brought down this congregation and the discussion in it. It's a shame not to stick to the agenda. Those who use this pay phone to sow proscality, primitiveism, rudeness, uncivilized relationships, of course, are humiliating all of us. I protest the insult that has been given to me for belonging to a party that is the most valuable thing this Serbia currently has. Throwing it out of the O.R. Your gravitation just proves that I'm absolutely right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25025	Just a moment, ma'am, don't answer the same tone as you came out to protest for the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25026	They won't let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25027	No, it's one thing whether they allow you to speak or not, but calling MPs half-written and calling MPs the way you went, and you just went out to demonstrate such a speech, is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please warn a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been broken...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25028	I said, "Article 104."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25029	So, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and you've broken that article.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25030	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25031	I'm here to decide whether or not it is, so please, if you do, point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, say one more thing. Don't use those terms here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25032	Okay, I apologize to the people I hurt if I said they were semi-literate, but I think in front of Serbia we're all on that test and they're absolutely going to assess how much literacy it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25033	I'm begging you, I already did it here once. Please, Mr. Spaho, when I give you my word, sit down now. So, I remember here one debate a few months ago when on one side and on the other, there were the same hard words, I didn't react to either, because everyone has to keep an eye on their constituents and how they're going to address themselves here in the assembly and the voters, but it's inadmissible too, so you're reacting to such terms with terms that are also inadmissible. People's MPs have been elected by citizens, and as elected are the best representatives of Serbian citizens. That fact must be respected, must be kept in mind and Members of the public respected, here each other, and as much as the citizens will respect it, they will show it in the elections. Please keep that in mind when you speak here to the National Assembly, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure for insulting each other. Here you go, Mr. Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure, and you, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from Loznica, the municipality where the government holds the G17. There G17 fired a lot, even a radical, even one Muslim who worked in the municipality, it was the only Muslim and was fired, and he worked as a porter. They hired 25 of their members at customs, and now you're saying something about Shid. Do not go out and speak for municipalities where Serbian radicals are, because they have proven themselves, starts from Nis and beyond, how good it is, what they do and how they do. I'm also going to be attached to this, when I'm out, for this turmoil until the arrest, so Mr. Mladic's family... I'm ordering, as Muslim, General Young man not to surrender, for as much as he defended his people and his country, he defended me and my family and thousands of Muslims who fought on the side of the Serbs at that time. I belong, ma'am, to the SRS, and she was never a thief's party, nor am I a thief, and I don't know which one of you strangers you belong to... And the bags and the money, I think you're a thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25035	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Kojcic, would you like a replica? First things first.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have the honour of relying on your comment just now, since a day or two is happening, I don't know what it's called professionally in politics, but the story is known to most people. It's said like this: when a man sneezes, in China, then, he says, upsets a butterfly, a butterfly flies, upsets a flock of sparrows, and a flock of sparrows builds a lahoen, and the lahoon builds a monsoon in India and then comes to a hurricane in London and so on. So we have to keep an eye on each other, and when we sneeze, we don't produce a typhoon somewhere. Point 2. I think that, absolutely, to all of us, first of all, who are sitting here is quite clear that one kind of harmonic relationship, if that's what you can say, but democracy is not what I mean as a Unionist, as homogeneous, as if I don't know what kind of unity, unanimity, that we can at least agree on procedures and style. Something is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and something regulates our behavior. What this country needs the least, at this point, is block division. So, you and me. I have to say, there are radicals, sometimes when they ask me, I don't know, you're a democratic block, it's not a democratic block, it's people who accept the democratic rules of the game, and I don't accept that I'm being introduced into that trap of block division. I don't know, they're "yellow" like they say, I think it's inappropriate to talk about people that way. No, these are all democratic parties, we each do in our own way, there is, of course, what communists would say, deviation, there are individuals everywhere, but what we need is what would be called democratic unity. So Serbia cannot live to be divided into society, and at least to generate this division from this house. To get back to that story, we'll take care of it when we sneeze. It wasn't told to anyone, I'm talking to myself, at the very least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25037	I thank you, Mr. Koicic. The word is Verse Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, replica, good. So, the replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25038	To replicate the lady who entered this assembly on the agenda, the third point of the lamb-pig roasting and fish, the fourth point of the drink, the fifth point of music towards the affinity and the sixth point of the variety. The lady who tried to present herself here as writing and said, in this institution, I didn't understand the problem with the downfalls. But, you know, I don't think in Serbia it's a shame to be half-written and illiterate and not say all the downfalls. There are many honest people in the country of Serbia who do not use all the downfalls, which are not written enough, who are not overeducated, but are honorable and honest. And the MPs who represent such people and who here may be using the localism of their neighborhoods where they came from are honorable and honest. But being a thief in Serbia has always been scary and will always be terrible. There's a big difference, you know, accusing someone of being illiterate, semi-literate, that one can be proud. Citizens who have chosen such ones, if we are Serbian radicals, and we can measure and review diplomas on this side with diplomats on the other side, and just see which ones are stronger and where there are more. But I say, in this way we do not want to communicate, we are MPs, we represent citizens of Serbia and we represent honest citizens of Serbia, because they vote for us. Of course, I also believe that honest citizens voted for you because they didn't really know what was hiding and what was the true essence of the party you belong to. As much as you defend yourself, the fact is and it is true what you are told and what everyone in Serbia is saying about you, but since you are very written it would be nice to explain to your committees in the Arangelovac Assembly, who every time you chair dies of laughter, since you cannot learn what is general and what is an individual act. Well, it would be nice if you asked someone so semi-literate and uneducated, you might know that it explains to you what would be really common for you to know by performing the function you perform.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25039	Replica, MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25040	So I'm definitely gonna end up with polemics, and I don't want to keep working this way, but I want to get back to the agenda. I want to say that party G17 plus proud of Vido Petrovic, Mayor of Loznica. These are the ones the Lozniks need, and these are the ones that Serbia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25041	Thank you. We're moving on in the order of applications. National MP Natasa Jovanovic and then Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the parliamentary group, the G17 plus group was not referred to as the text that was presented to the Republic government last year, in November, more specifically, on November 9th. He just sent his Western mentors there to write – Serbia on the right track. They write – Serbia, and as long as it has arrived with the performance of the tasks that we have given you, obedient students, to complete within as short a time as possible. And it's really a big one not to say study, but a half-year-old report. It contains all segments of our social life. And the basic condition of all conditions is to talk about what we're talking about today or any economic topic, you know what? The extradition of all Serbian heroes to The Hague tribunal. That's what Miloljub Albianic stands for, and that's what Kostunica's government, Mladjan Dinkic, stands for, but it won't be easy for you anymore, Mr Albianic. The fact that you arrested and brought in Ratko Mladic's brother-in-laws yesterday, his close relatives and harassed his son, not only will he come out on your nose, Mr. Albianic, but the people, the ones you boast about, will shake hands with you in front of the congregation building whenever they pass something worse than what you experienced when you passed by my leg, you know. Because what you're doing today is embarrassing Serbia and humiliating the Serbian people, and all with the aim of fulfilling the pages and pages of this, has nothing to do with your hollow and empty story. Maybe he's your father, probably a farmer who lives on his estate in the village and tries to create something, and he trained you, and he probably wanted you to be a man and to be a man one day and to be a representative of the people. However, it was a big surprise for you, and for yourself, you couldn't have dreamed of representing someone in Serbia, let alone being an MP, but now it's already a story of your organisation's lie and deception, how you tricked the citizens and got that handful of mandates. But don't you, Mr. Albianic, mention neither Shid, or Zemun, or Novi Sad, or Arangel, or Kragujevac, especially don't think that Kragujevac is on the map of Serbia where I come from!- I'm sorry. You know what? You couldn't reach the censorship there. You've won 1.6 percent of the voters, and that mayoral candidate of yours, of the 11 current candidates, you know who he was, the tenth. And what is he now, Chief of the Shumadian County? And you're telling Mitti Avram that he's firing people and doing some wicked things, you who in Kragujevac couldn't break the census and where the small government represents a man with a few hundred votes!- I'm sorry. You are talking to a man who received 70% of the votes of the citizens of Šid and who is one of the best and most successful municipality presidents in Serbia. Don't come out again and answer, cover your ears and keep your mouth shut. The fact that you were practicing in front of the mirror tonight or I don't know where, I thought it was just Boris Tadic's manners, and gestures, and increasing and lowering tones and very bad diction, when it's already talking about who's talking, whether or not it's cataractly, whether it's going down. It's usually my ears. Mr. Albianic, you didn't have to act so much because you didn't impress the minister. He picked himself up and left. What about the Serbian public? So who can trust you, Mr. Albianic? Well, the whole congregation knows that you're not just a little busy, but we've offered ourselves more if you need it, and you certainly don't need anything, some chandelier or something to bring you, maybe balloons to hang around the house. It's usually your manners, I mean, it's just balloons in your head. Now, as far as these famous results and these counterguarantees are concerned, I'm going back to the truth, because it's pointless to talk to you. You're the one who's been talking about it and you've told something that can't even be confirmed by the minister, it's not behind your claims. On the contrary, he knows, and these employers from this expertise from 9 November last year write to him that the economic situation is very bad. And yes, since the adoption of that famous (with which you boasted everywhere and in every place) feasibility studies or feasibility studies, segments by which you should have followed the parameters of these given tasks are not at all in your favor. That's one problem that you should be worried about now, because if you were more pro-mutant, I mean the whole of Kostunica's government and the previous Dosmania, which you've been praising today even though you weren't directly involved in it, then you'd have a much more ratification of today's session with the Russian Federation, with China, with African countries, with Middle Eastern countries, with India. Not that you and the Ustasha Croatian state are offering to ratify the Agreement on Customs Regulations, when you know very well that the Republika Srpska Krajina is occupied, that in the SRS parliamentary bench there is Mr. Buha, who is the president of the Republika Srpska government in exile, when there are half a million Serbs who have lost their homes and have been expelled from the greatest genocide that has been made over the past 15 years over the Serbian people!- I'm sorry. I don't want to return you to Jasenovac, because obviously, like Mesic, like the rest of the Ustashas, you forgot about it!- I'm sorry. As for this report here, you know what they're doing – where your results are, it says: they're not good, but for them it was good, they say, "a celebration" of the 10-year-old "Storm". The same ones who give you missions through a committee led by your colleague Milivojevic and whom you are blindly accepting, praise the Ustasha Storm and say, celebrated ten years of 'Storms', so perhaps that's why the Serbian authorities don't want them to have more intense bilateral co-operation. Just what you won in November, you say – no, we are good Croats, we love Ustashas. At the next session, after four months, there's a ratification of this. What are you talking about? The deputy trade minister is one of the biggest Croatian lobbyists. The press already called him Hrvoje, the lucky guy, I mentioned him the other day. See how many in our markets and hypermarkets, which are open in Serbia, in the movement of goods and capital there are Croatian and Slovenian goods, and what about Serbian production. Mr. Albianić, as possible, if you're bored and you've found yourself, I don't know under what conditions and possibilities, a credit that's more favourable than me, which I haven't been able to do with many SRS MPs who don't have their own roof over their heads and who live as tenants, how it's possible that you're calling yourself and making citizens, if the government is already doing this with these counter-guarantees, to crash into debt, when you know very well that it's a noose around your neck and when you know it's (and these mentors in the report also wrote to you) that it can be an inflation generator, which you don't even know this year how much it's going to be, nor the finance minister, nor the governor of the National Bank. Since the nine-tenth guess, we've come to 17%. On the other hand, you've completely forgotten the private sector. That I'm not talking about the fact that not only did you not expose it, which was a pattern, especially yours, by showing various affairs on the monitors, at a press conference, before you entered the Assembly, you didn't reveal any of the affair regarding the privatisations that were carried out under DOS rule, you didn't even oppose it. For what? You're just second, replaced players, and you're fine with that part. It is good for you to praise this agreement regarding electricity, because you do not care how much electricity it has actually accumulated, and it has not been expensive since 1 April 15.14% for households. Unfortunately, it was not an April joke, but you did, or "Electroprivreda of Serbia", the president of the Management Board and Djordjevic, director of Elektroprivreda, a completely different tariff system and a completely different tariff for citizens of Serbia. What do you say? The month arrived in April, no more heat on the electricity, until the fall or the first reckoning, we'll give them in two months, it'll be forgotten. She won't forget, I'll tell them today what it looks like. This in the blue zone is no longer up to 600 kilowatt hours of electricity, which is owned by DOS and under your authority 20 times more expensive. From 0.9 cents to 10, now 12 kilowatt hours for the red zone. Where are the salaries, where are the profits? You fired a million people from work. In the next green zone, instead of 600 to 1,600 kilowatts, much less, and not talking about this red zone, it certainly means nothing to you, who knows who pays you. You probably have a servant to pay you both utility bills and electricity bills. These are small things for you. You are dealing with these "serious" state issues. Now, my Albian, you won't get far. You won't, because, with all your acting and all these sharp criticisms you've received from those you listen to and whose opinions you care about, you haven't focused, not this government, not the resolute ministers, on what's a strategic issue for this country, which is to solve very big social problems. You don't do that from the level of local self-government. Only where the radicals in power are very successful is it done, from all existing resources, from all the existing money being poured into the budget. What did you do in the meantime? You're telling us today about the progress in society, the consumer basket. You're also laughing at these economists who are being classified into a group of non-classified ones, against whom you have something, I mean countries of non-classified, because you don't know anything about it and you don't know it, because you laughed when Mr. Nikolic received Ambassador Morocco, that Morocco has 30 million inhabitants, so it's funny to you now, because none of your friends from the West showed up to say that Kosovo and Metohija will get no independence, but just the representatives of Morocco and our friendly countries. That's how you run the country. And as you lead her, as the Prophet said a moment ago, not cleansed by a broom or by the rod of Baptism. It's not a democratic method of action, but let's go to the elections, so you guys sneak up somewhere, I don't know which polling place you vote in, if you're like this Jelasic of yours now in Senjak or Dedinj, to vote, and after that, after five days of election, you're free to turn off your phone, don't answer anyone else, because you won't be important to anyone anymore. You will be an ordinary citizen, Miloljub Albianic, who took advantage of his electoral right on that day and who, the next day, will see that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the prime minister of the new government, came to the building of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in Nemina Street, to present to the nation which, and will be many plants, is going to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25043	Replica was reported by MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for a replica of Miss Jovanovic's presentation. Miss Jovanovic, I understand your problems and frustrations, but I can't help you. So there are a few things that matter. One is, thank God, I'm home, my parents were worth it, we have a house in Tometa's Field, the Požega municipality, and that's a good family house, with a nice word. It's a real place, "golden valley," as I call it. For Croatia, I would not like to say that it is not good to call it Ustasha, no matter what happens, because today they are sitting in government in Croatia and Serbs, at least because of them, separate these things. I know what's bothering you. You're troubled by the interview that I gave to a newspaper, where I said I was an educator and that I was involved in improving education in people, but not in education. I said at the time that Natasa Jovanovic had to address someone for the affections of a teaching profession, as I said if I was a minister of education, I would set up a radical education agency, because now these criminal and correctional institutions are not bringing results, because you are calling for immunity. It upsets you, and now you're trying to make something personal with me here. It's not worth it. The education refers to you. You have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25045	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25046	Usually about someone's frustrations or not when they address the opposite sex, they should talk about the opposite sex. Since I don't see you like that, and I'm a lady, it's really pointless for me, "collabian" Albianic, to talk to you like that. I really don't know, I asked my colleagues in a hurry, did you really give an interview to some newspaper? Unfortunately, because of the high degree of poverty, in certain rural areas and in some areas where such civilizational progress has not been achieved, people do not have wet knots in houses, so they use some other ways to satisfy the minimum of their hygiene. I think that by the way, when they go to those places, they're doing an interview with your picture, so that's probably how it ended. As for education, sir or colleague Albianić, make sure that in your manner, first of all, honest people raise your children, when they haven't raised you, and I believe your parents had a good intention, and those students from school where you were the manager of "conclogator" remember the days when you chased them on school nights and who knows where to see if someone lit a cigarette. You start with your first example, quit smoking and quit smoking, and don't dangle anything from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25047	The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and then Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Dinkic, Minister Vela Ilic and some other ministers when they see that I have applied for the discussion, they get picked up and leave and the right to tell you I don't miss them. I ask the MPs to stop talking about their parents. I suppose now the parent of the MP who mentioned here that his father was receiving a farm pension of 4,000 dinars, a man of red. I think that man is a very successful farmer and all he's done is right, he's the only one he hasn't done... that man...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25049	Don't, Mr. Markovic. Everyone's child is the most beautiful, the smartest and the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25050	I accept criticism. On the other hand, he put a man in an awkward situation, because his neighbor doesn't get a pension, and a neighbor on the other hand gets kicked out of work, he and his wife, and this one takes 4,000. By the way, let him ask what that man can buy for 4,000. There is one more thing, his father is not the government, his party is in power and for all mistakes and guilt, all thieving, all crime is borne by Albianic and his party, not Father Albianic. Let's get back to the subject. First of all, in these proposals for a counter-guarantee law, you'll find the amount in dollars, in euros, and somewhere in special drag rights, so that the citizens of Serbia can understand what the rights are, because here you have 110m euros and 239,800,000 special drag rights. They moved in one of these bill proposals, so they recalculated and said: 55 million special rights draw is $70 million. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia, these 239,800,000 special rights to draw more than 300 million dollars in debt!- I'm sorry. So much for that. Why are the counterguarantees of Serbia being sought when Serbia-Montenegro's state union has given counterguarantee? Did you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, from the ruling coalition, resolve the issue of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro before the referendum? Do your mentors not believe that after the referendum, they will survive the formation they have forged and made so that it is no longer a common state, but the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? Is that what these creditors are asking you to guarantee? Exactly. The proposal for a counterguarantee law of the Republic of Serbia for the restoration of the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, with a proposal to be taken to search, worth 72m euros, along with those 120m euros (which we voted before these large three-month fairies, given to us by Mr Markovic, president of the assembly), is 200m euros on the same highway that prepares to give the concessionaire at 32 years. On the same highway that charges toll and only toll can be built both bridge and road and not be awarded under concession. I've brought a reckoning here, and I've shown that it's possible to build the highway of Belgrade - Požega. The concessionaire won't have to invest any money in a state like this, not built bridge. He won't have to invest any money even if he had to build a bridge and make that part of the road from Novi Sad to Horgos, the other part. Only a toll charge can make that part and make the Belgrade-Pozega highway. This is where the big heist is hiding, hiding the collected works of Velja Ilic, who neatly complex keeps Minister Jocic in the registrars. Looks like our minister's gonna have to open those registrars when he gets here, and he's gonna be here soon. The next proposal is a law on granting counterguarantee to Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance a project to improve the state of schools, with a proposal to be taken into consideration. Since this was already in 2005, I'm interested in what money was spent on, where the equipment specification was purchased. Don't let Albianic go out to talk about buying chalk, sponges, chairs, writing tables and having to take credit for it. What country on this Earth's chalk ball takes credit? Fat money's gone somewhere. I'm looking for, as a People's MP, a specification for everything money has been spent on. Let it be a parliamentary question, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of school, let me tell you how it's done in Belgrade. Preschool institution "Beeica" on Sava Venac, since one of the SPI powers, and the SPS is in power, is helping in many cities, and in Serbia are directly in power, so people can, toppled the wall between their yard and their kindergarten, usurped half of the children's nursery, put the lives of those children and nothing. It's possible. It's from the SPO. I ask, too, as a parliamentary question – what has the public prosecutor done on this matter? Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association's loan, a project to revitalise the irrigation and disposal system. I want it to be explained to me, but there's no minister to explain to me whether the project was this expensive, because I didn't see anything done in Serbia. The groundwaters were supposed to be regulated by this, I guess it was supposed to be a draining and irrigation channel, dragging the groundwaters away, and the next day, when it was supposed to lead to agricultural land. The canal is gone, half of Serbia is underwater. 16,600,000 special draw rights were taken, so divide the 70 million into 55 million, so multiply and it turns out that, somewhere, $20 million was spent on a channel-building project. How did our peasants make these channels so far when they didn't have projects like this that cost $20 million? I demand, under this law, to deliver to the MPs how much money has been withdrawn from this loan, where it has been spent, the specification of the works and to answer me the question why this size of water is when this has already been done. The following is the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association's loan (the Serbia-Montenegro component - a project for Serbia), with a proposal to pass by emergency procedure, 13 million 900,000 special rights. I also demand that the Members of Parliament be delivered to what has been done with this money, because it is 24. 2nd already took out a loan. Now – Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Association for Development (A project for the consolidation of collection and reform of pension administration. Whoever understands will understand. In order for the pension administration to work, credit must be raised, they consolidated and they reformed. Also, I demand that the MPs be answered where this money has been spent. We come to the famous Agreement with the independent state of Croatia, the Ustasha state of Croatia, Croatia where there are no Croats, all the "go" Ustasha, Croatia in which 500,000 Serbs were expelled, which has not arrived to escape have been killed!- I'm sorry. Croatia, in which Albianic said few times, some Serbs also sit in their parliament. Those Serbs are like Miloljub Albianic. They are not Serbs and do not represent Serbian interests!- I'm sorry. The same Croatia that is now buying in Serbia. They bought "Frickom", the daughter of one of the high-ranking Ustasha officials bought "Krecana" in Jelen Doll. I'm sorry I wasn't there yesterday when the mining law was being discussed to ask the minister if he was there at all, whether concessions are being charged, because you sold cements, cements sold and labs!- I'm sorry. You sold the cretin, and you sold that whole hill at the Jelen Dol!- I'm sorry. You sold the Water Factory "Knjiz Milos", with it you sold the sites!- I'm sorry. And what are these concessions if you charge them at all?- I'm sorry. This Croatia buys in Serbia, while Hrvoje and the rest of the Croatians continue to defend their interests!- I'm sorry. They just crossed over here and accounted for the price of 55 million and 500 thousand special drawbacks being the equivalent of $70 million – this is the International Development Association's loan (Structure Adjustment of Business of the Republic of Serbia). Where did they spend this $70 million? What do you structure and adaptations from the economy when nothing still works, when none of the chimneys in Serbia smoke, when no factory in Serbia works, when you fire a million people?- I'm sorry. Also, I demand that the MPs be explained where this money was spent. Then, the International Development Association (Second Structural Adjustment Credit), with a proposal to take over. Here, again, it's about 30 million and 100,000 special rights to pull in one answer for both of you, not to waste your word. Next, credit for the development of the private financial sector. Cheers! Are we going to borrow the National Savings Bank now, which side is it? Are we going to lend Raiffeisen to a bank? Who are we going to borrow with this, or who is going to spend this credit on the development of the private and financial sector? What bank else does Serbia have to be a state bank, that the bank is Serbian citizens, that it is private, but that it is in this part? Furthermore, for the programme development of policy in the private and financial sectors, second credit. This is fine, by asking the MPs to answer whether, this is what's with this Tamnavu loan, for surface copies, whether it's been bought and how much it cost, how much credit it's spent. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian radicals will certainly not vote for any of these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25051	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and the Prophet of Radeth shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia must again, following the directive of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who is not here now, be put back into the role of the Serbian-Montenegro state community jury, which is obviously not working. It is a counter-guarantee for a series of imaginary projects, starting with schools, a system for irrigation and disposal, the restoration of shares of the Belgrade highway -- Novi Sad, a credit for development, which, according to some pattern, is intended to "adjust Serbia", everything and everything. We're about to adapt and how to breathe, that is, as someone demands on the side. What's really amazing about this item of the agenda is certainly the number of these bill proposals, there are 10, which the ruling assembly has so grouped into one point, so MPs of the National Assembly, mostly SRS MPs, will talk about both Iran and schools, about the disposal, highway, Croatia, development, etc. However, this does not happen for the first time in this National Assembly and we MPs of the SRS do not surprise it at all. One of the loan users is, as we can see, the Ministry of Capital Investment, or the Republic Road Directorate. However, the agreement was concluded a year ago, at a large sum of 72m euros. There's a fact here that concerns the purpose of the loan. This is what it says, for the reconstruction of the Belgrade highway -- Novi Sad -- and as we remember last year, the Serbian Parliament, on a proposal from the government, gave its agreement on the issue of concessions. The question is where will these 72m euros go if they haven't already left. If we follow Minister Velimir Ilic toss promises where local emergency elections are held, we can assume what the loans will be used for. We saw it in Smederev, King, Vienna, which means abuse of the position of minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In some villages, locals were fortunate to have called elections in their municipality. Ministers from the ruling coalition, hand-shared and hat-shared, are paved and paved where and where they should not be, are promised by the villages of airports. I guess the minister has plans to open air traffic. And when the elections are all gone, they move to another municipality, they'll probably be the Bor municipality, because soon there are elections for the president of the municipality and that asphalt circus goes on. They give him a bomb name, this bill of law, the development purpose, the pension fund, the restoration of the stock of the highway, and this is where it's scattered into other things. Speaking of loans to rebuild Belgrade highways - Novi Sad, I would like to ask those responsible in the Republic Roads Directorate – where are your money from the tolls charged in Serbia. It's huge money that's been measured by millions. Is it going where Minister Velimir Ilic has his candidate in the local elections, so she repeats the story from Smederev – Sasha is the one who will bring you asphalt as a stork. Whose money? Out of the citizens of Serbia who are being abused for the interests of the parties in power. One of the counterguarantees concerns funding projects to improve the state of schools. It would be good if the proposer had explained more closely where these 25m euros would be spent, except that nine schools were said to be built. The education ministry should deal with, as well as the whole Serbian government, why schools in Serbia are in each fifth village prior to closure. What makes the state stop it. Before this problem, everyone closes their eyes and entire Serbia's areas, especially in southern Serbia, remain without a single child. Those schools you're going to build, so they're not worth three or four million dollars per school, unless something's imposed, according to some declaration that this government knows how to honor the last letter. Strangely, it sounds like a proposal to give counterguarantee to the International Development Association, which is intended for JP EPS and JP "Electro Network of Serbia", one small part. At the moment in Serbia, electricity is again drastically expensive and exhausting citizens of Serbia to the end, the government puts such a bill on the agenda. Instead of cutting off the outflow of funds to those discussed almost two years ago by the Survey Committee, it is precisely the opposite, loans are taken for the needs of the EPS. The real question would be – why has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not yet put a report of the Committee of Auditors where it is clear how much money from the EPS has gone into the pockets of individuals? The funds for payment under the agreement will be provided by the EPS and the ESM, according to the bill, and the funds will be known to Serbian citizens, new and new electricity purchases. Of course, no one in the Serbian government is alarmed or overexcited, all this will cost the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25053	I thank you, Mr. Ilich. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. You have 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25054	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, counterpart Albianic, accepting that we were discussing 15 points of the agenda in a united debate was probably meant to mean that MPs came into a situation that they could not actually discuss the proposals of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure that's how you instructed Mladjan Dinkic and told him – just come, be five minutes and there's nothing to discuss and who's going to talk about 15 proposals at the same time. Now, you see, we have tried, as each time it is, we Serbian radicals are talking about everything that deserves the attention of the National Assembly and the MPs. Of course, I'll just separate a few of these proposals, because it's not possible for me to pay everyone the same attention. The key problems in your proposals are that by proposing that Serbia provides guarantees to Serbia-Montenegro, in fact, you are already condemning Serbia-Montenegro in advance. You don't even have time to wait for Mil's referendum. Of course, we know that, especially you from G17 plus, you support the idea of an independent Serbia, i.e. separating Montenegro from Serbia, and then further separation, for starters, Kosovo, and later probably Vojvodina, the Raske areas, and as much as they ask you of Serbia. We know it is your policy. It is incomprehensible that MPs from MPs who are just as open and publicly not saying they have nothing to say about these and these proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We knew by now that the government of Vojislav Kostunica was a veritable government, but that it was a government that wanted to officially become a drug dealer, we didn't know it until today. We knew that some members of the government might go as far as to do these jobs, but that this proposal of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia admits, or accepts the fact that the government, or the state, is involved in drug dealings, is indeed too much, even from your government. When Zoran Krasic spoke, he quoted Article 8. And I'll quote it for the public. In Article 8 of your proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this 'endehazia', Ustasha Croatia, you say: 'The Customs Service of the Foreign Contracting Party, on the basis of a mutual agreement and in the framework of the powers they have in accordance with national law, can use the methods of controlled delivery to control the shipment of intoxicating drugs', etc. In the second point, you say, 'Unlawful shipments whose deliveries are controlled, may, with the consent of the competent authorities, be stopped or may be allowed to continue to move without the goods being left intact or the goods referred to in Article 1 shall be removed or replaced in full or in part'. Since Mladjan Dinkic is a representative of the government for this law, I would like to ask him if he is authorised on behalf of the government as an official drug dealer within the government of the Republic of Serbia or whether another of his colleagues will do so. So, even if you had suggested a normal agreement with Ustasha Croatia, we Serbian radicals would not have wanted to and could not have voted for it, because I guess we are the only one in Serbia aware of the fact that Ustasha Croatia has carried out ethnic cleansing, that half a million Serbs in this ethnic cleansing have been expelled, that Republika Srpska is occupied by the Ustasha Croatian state. All of these are really enough for us, and more than enough, the reasons that, until these issues are resolved, we are not even discussing, even I say, normal agreements with Ustasha Hrvatska, and especially not about this really uninvolved proposal, which Mladjan Dinkic here tried to explain something, so he said he has no idea what it says. He asked someone to explain it to him, so they explained something to him. Of course, it's not clear to him himself what he's proposing. It's not clear to you who are going to vote for this either. Of course, it's not the first time you've voted for what the government has offered you, and you don't even know what you're voting for. When it comes to Ustasha Croatia, I have to say that if the Serbian government wants some kind of contact and some normalisation of relations with this 'endehazi', then it would be better to take a little care of the conditions, those people, our friends, our countrymen who, having nothing to live on here and without living conditions, return to at least where they were born and are mostly very old and returning. You deceive the public of Serbia, I imagine, to agree to the European Union that conditions have been created and that many Serbs are returning to Croatia. Of course, that's not true. So, those who return, at least as much as they announce to us, and since I know the situation very well in both Croatia and BiH territory, I know perfectly how everyone who tries to return is persecuted. You know how many people have been killed, how harassed and tortured. This could possibly be the topic of talks with those Ustasha representatives, not drug dealing through Serbia. I am interested in this proposal for a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance and co-operation in customs matters. Here I just want to formally ask Mladjan Dinkic, maybe he's looking at us on the screen somewhere, because Predrag Markovic usually, when he wants to deceive the public of Serbia, why there are no MPs of the congregation's majority in the hall, he says -- they're up there and they're following the work. Now, if Mladjan Dinkic is up there looking at us and monitoring the work, he can explain to us what the agreement is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Shouldn't this be an agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of Iran? If not, why did you say that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 72, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then where is the Constitution of the Republic of Montenegro, how can you propose this and not consult the Constitution of the Republic of Montenegro? You absolutely don't know anything. The government's proponents absolutely know nothing, the country's larger ignorants and pests did not remember. This agreement, i.e. the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance a project to improve the state of schools, firstly, I repeat what we all asked you, why the Republic of Serbia guarantees Serbia-Montenegro, who is an older chicken or egg here, but of course, of course, you said your opinion and we know what you think about the common state. I want something else to inform the MPs, and primarily the public of Serbia, otherwise the very concerned public, and above all, educational workers in Serbia. In fact, these days, they appear to be representatives of schools, representing union representatives called “Pensation”, led by one Repac, who recruits, but literally recruits, educational workers in Serbia to organise some seminars on its cost, whose essence is the denatization of educators, literally, say educators who have asked a little more detail about brainwashing, that is, the attempt. Imagine what's interesting. They asked the educators, and many asked me. To this day, I didn't know how to answer them, but today I know, they say, what kind of union is it that doesn't ask whoever approaches that union to pay a membership fee, but rather, they go to schools and teachers who enter that union to cash 100 euros. Now I ask Mladjan Dinkic, is this credit, of which you owe Serbian citizens, whether 100 euros are given to educators who willingly agree to brainwash them and make them some cloned teachers, who are supposed to destroy generations of students in Serbia within your education system. So we had and we have on these proposals and amendments, and in particular we will talk a lot more, and I repeat what all our colleagues have said, we will not vote for this, and I do not think that at least for some of whom we have specifically talked about, no MP who feels like an MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be allowed to vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25055	I thank Mrs. Radetti. Now we're gonna take a break, and the break will be up to 15.00 hours, and then after a break, the word is Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we will continue our afternoon work today's session. From the list declared for a word on the agenda, which is a principle search, these are united points related to counterguarantees and ratification of agreements and contracts, there are ten minutes left for SRS MPs, but the only remaining reported is not currently in the O.R., it is not correct to pronounce a name. Since there are no more entries on the lists, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on points 6 - 17 of the agenda of this session. Thank you. Before we move to the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Cooperatives Act, I want to inform everyone once again so that you can plan your time. What we announced yesterday afternoon, today we will only work until the completion of the principled search of the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Cooperatives. There will be no session tomorrow and there will be a follow-up on Monday, and we will begin the debate in particular, because, as you received a notice yesterday, one item of the agenda has been removed due to the withdrawal of the citizens' protection bid. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf. Ambassador Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25057	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I find it interesting to see the representatives of the authorities rush to finish the session. I thought you were proud of the bill you put before the MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're right, Mr. President, you can finish up and say you have 10 minutes, they're not in the O.R. because it took us 30 seconds to get into the O.R. You can do that, but it's not in line with good customs, it's not in line with the customs of this National Assembly, because you knew we wanted to use the remaining 10 minutes, whether you liked our discussion or not. I just wanted to point out to you the fact that it was extremely incorrect, because maybe you were thinking that someone would do harm to the political party that you belong to. But I don't even need your answer by which you're the most objective in the world or I don't know what, so I came out just to say that people know we had something else to say. I brought it here, because you saw me threaten something yesterday and show you how fat this is. These papers, these files, well, there's about 525 pages, 525 pages of crime and thieving. It's all turned into criminal charges, 525, not one, not two, not five, it can be anyone, not 10, not 50, 525 pages. He's not laughing, he insults Mr. Albianic in the worst way, I'm surprised he doesn't see the president of the National Assembly. And I'm laughing at it, laughing. Well, he told me, because of the viewers, because of the citizens who follow the work of the National Assembly, Mr Albianic shows that I am crazy, that I am not normal. Maybe, Mr. Albianic, you're right, I might be like this, maybe I'm crazy and insane and insane and whatever you want, but 525 pages of thieving and crime and corruption to pick up, for God's sake, it proves you're not crazy or abnormal, but that you're exactly what the Belief Radeta told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25058	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I have to give an explanation that's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but by the rules of physics. When there's someone standing in front of me who's so grown up, thank God, like Mr. Wolf, I really don't see the physical first two seats left and right to the end. It's a perspective. So, I see everything else. In that sense, I can't react to gestures and faces if there are. As you yourself have concluded, yes, it has worked extremely correctly with the beginning of this session. I'm sorry if I damaged someone, but I don't doubt there's enough ability to explain the political views in detail during the next points. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON DEFINITIONS OF CODE LAW You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 36 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds; for Europe's Serbia – six minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPO MPs and three independent MPs – five minutes each, based on Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25059	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been asked on behalf of the promoter, which is the Ministry of Economy, to explain the draft law supplementing the Law on Cooperatives. It'll be a relatively brief explanation, but you'll understand what motivated the government and the Ministry to propose this short bill. The basis of the cooperative's independence is its property. In our legal system, cooperatives use, in addition to cooperative assets, assets recorded in cooperative and other public records as social property, property or social capital. The share of social capital in the total capital of cooperatives is significant, especially when it comes to immovable property, which includes: agricultural land, construction and other facilities which are in the function of carrying out the activities of cooperatives. So from, according to the record, 2446 cooperatives, in 1978 cooperative social property with a percentage of participation of up to 51%, and in 468 cooperatives with over 72%. A significant indicator of agricultural cooperatives, that social capital in the core capital of cooperatives participates with, according to this record, 72.56%. In the light of the practices of uncontrollable outflow of social property, i.e. social capital and cooperatives, in particular through the investment of social property, i.e. social capital, as a founding role, in other existing companies and thus the reduction of the assets which the cooperative has at its disposal, which, in the end, may lead to the disappearance of the cooperative, given the significant participation of social capital in the total capital of cooperatives, should be complemented by the applicable Cooperative Act, which introduces the prior consent of the Agency responsible for privatisation operations for the availability of that property. This kind of control of the availability of social property in cooperatives is of temporary character, given that the issue of social property in cooperatives, i.e. the change of property and property, will be resolved by a new law on cooperatives, which is at the stage of preparation. However, until a new cooperative law is passed, it is necessary, in order to preserve cooperativeship and the principles on which it rests, to effectively prevent uncontrollable availability of social property in cooperatives, to finally regulate the status and property of the new cooperative law. If you'll excuse me, just a few more sentences. The new law is in preparation. It should probably be adopted in the congregation by the end of the year. However, since after the Agency for Registration it became clear, when a detailed insight into how cooperatives work, that the secretary is significantly drained by social capital, this law has activated a similar solution that exists in the Law on Privatisation, which is indeed trying to protect social capital during this transitional period, because, literally, from the moment that the work on a comprehensive new law has been announced, which will finally resolve the issue of property, certain, conditionally speaking, speculative activities have been accelerated. The proposal was intended to, using a similar solution and practice, which appeared in the Privatisation Act, install this solution into the Cooperative Act, in order to prevent various abuses and outflows of social capital that have become dominant in our cooperatives over the years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25060	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich, especially thank you for the additional effort you've made for the procedure in the Assembly, which is what all the data is about. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Aleksandar Vukic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first it was announced Minister Bubalo, he should have come, and then later the paper arrived with a change, and it was said that the Minister of Trade and Tourism would come to explain this law to us. So people wouldn't think that we're talking here about some fundamental law that solves essential issues and the core problems of cooperatives and cooperatives, this whole law, which consists of three members, could have been placed in one member. The Serbian government would never have had to, if it had had any opportunities in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia, technically change it, since it did not, then it brought such a proposal to the National Assembly, counting -- come on, we'll finish it quickly and no one will talk about anything. It is said that there are growing uncontrollable speculant actions and kidnappings, that is, the theft of social property from cooperatives. You see, you arrest Mladić, you arrest anyone who comes to mind, who ever saw his son, because we got that information, and I didn't know there was a duke among you. And it doesn't look like a duke. And you're a lord? Well, that's our country. (What does Tijanic come to you in that section? Castles are crazy, for those who don't know, intellectuals. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to talk about what has been happening in our country since what some falsely call a democratic change, and in fact from the moment the big robbery started, because until then it was covered up, like this and like this, a big, unscrupulous, open robbery of social and state property began. I will talk in line with the facts and with the cross-section of the SRS expert team, and you will hear some interesting information about our agriculture, our cooperatives and everything else. What's most important for our country today when we talk about the progress of our production, agricultural and industrial, and it's gone, they're down, we can't reach 1990 who knows how much more time. This information will be alarming to you: the number of cattle in Serbia at the end of 2005 is the same as in 1910, I don't know if you had that information. He speaks badly enough about the condition we are in. Of the only 25,000 combined and 420,000 tractors, with an average age of 18 years, the consequences are increasingly lower yields per unit of surface. And every year, primarily because of the lack of adequate incentives for the money and favourable loans that you boast about, almost 200,000 hectares of land remains daily, that says enough what Serbia is missing. In this way each product becomes more expensive and uncompetitive, both domestic and foreign. The Serbian government was to appear with measures to protect domestic production. They should have said they were introducing the necessary standards, getting the necessary certificates, for example. for slaughterhouses, milkers, etc. how and what measures will prevent imports of genetically or otherwise unquality and inadequate products for human and animal consumption. Also, price policy has left huge damage to the development of agriculture, and we haven't heard a single word about it. Also, the state had to, and it did not, provide agricultural production premiums, which amount to 30% in Australia, Kuwait and some other countries. We need to achieve production for exports of at least 15% of the value of planned exports. Although agricultural production is, for example, in 2004, only for a little less in our gross social product by 65%, while direct participation is about 26%. Albian, listen to this, something to learn. I'm just educationally acting on the MP to finally learn something, he'll be able to say something smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25062	It's all right, Mr. Wolfie, because I'm warning you there's no discussion during the debate. A moment ago, as you heard, I warned during the phone call of an MP, because I was simply against being distracted by the speaker. Be nice, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25063	So export subsidies are being abolished, and reportedly, more attention will be paid to the creators of our economic policy to modernising and developing the village in general. The European Union, with 500 million inhabitants, gives subsidies for a 127-euro agriculture, while in our country with nine million inhabitants, as some are already ousting Kosovo and Metohija, which account for seven million, amounts to just over 20 euros. Look at the level we're at and how agricultural producers can work and function. In the European Union, as well as in the United States, but also in many other countries that have nothing to do with them and which are not at this stage of development, there are special channels for subsidising agriculture, not only in the form of a common agricultural policy, and therefore, in particular, the reform of our agricultural policy which excludes the possibility of developing international competitive production in the countries of new and future members, without talking about non-members, within a certain period. The deliberate and deliberate destruction of agriculture as the primary branch of the economy in our country and as our development opportunity, at all costs, that we could in no way remain and be competitive on the European and world market. Even on the basis of the Berlin Agreement, France and Germany, the European Union's core countries, which have long made their agricultural production internationally competitive, have proposed that direct aid to the Union agricultural producers from 2007 to 2013, be almost frozen at 2006 level, due to the budgetary part of the solution to this proposal, the reduction and separation from the agricultural aid budget, but at the same time its increase in the slow pace of inflation growth rate. We have a sincere suspicion that this agreement will ever come to life. We haven't built a domestic development bank and we're talking about it, our entire banking sector has been destroyed, robbed and stolen. Some of the political measures directly shut down, closed down, and some sold at incomparably lower prices than the market. The Commercial Bank in Romania, to say that it was three times as powerful or three times as it is in Serbia today, has been sold $3.4 billion. And you know how much they predict and want to sell the Commercial Bank in Serbia? For 270 or 280 million!- I'm sorry. Just count how many tens or hundreds of millions someone thinks they're putting in their own pockets. Just like everything else. In everything else, the main policy of our key politicians is how and how deep their pockets will be, that is, how much, since it can no longer fit in their pockets, to encourage them to load money into trucks. Of course, the basic requirement of foreign customers and strategic partners in this domain is to combine production, i.e. the creation of new cooperatives, as well as the consolidation of existing ones. They're foreign customers. Most often we have an example of the Salford investment fund that came, took, if I'm not mistaken, seven or eight dairy farmers in Serbia and they've all created it by buying more state-owned enterprises, however, without the necessary investments in terms of modernization, changes in structure and specialization of production, as well as the creation of an internationally competitive production system for different products. There is literally minimal reform, minimal modernisation with the layoff of workers, and then goes to more expensive sales than how it was done with previous government or social capital. Someone will say that investment funds are for this, so they behave in this way in all other countries of the world, but I have to say that we had legal conditions that would provide incomparably greater security for workers, for employees, but we could provide incomparably faster and more serious modernisation than today's case. Not to tell you how different we are because of the lack of serious measures in agriculture, non-subsidy and non-subsidisation of what should be our development chance, because that should have been said by Minister Dinkic, not just about how all the money that came to cover the budget deficits, and there is nothing from the development chances. In the end, this money allocated to investment will go largely to social funds or cover social needs, which are undeniable too, but from the new development chances of Serbia there is nothing left. I don't need to tell you how much meat production or how much wheat production is higher in developed countries, 2.3 - 2.7, even three times, than it is in our country, and by the consumption of fertilizer we are among the last in the world, with only 40 kilograms per hectare. We are far behind in everything except how and how to rob what people have created for decades, for years, which remained and existed in one way or another as state or social property. The bill itself is the government's recognition that during the previous period the number of pests has increased, increased the number of those who are trying to obtain social property through speculant actions, tried to kidnap it, and then one of them serves them for personal gain, and no one can benefit from it, simply because there is no modernisation, no serious reforms, no serious investments in agricultural production. We have heard today about how everything flourishes in Serbia, as we are not a highly-indebted country, we are highly in charge, not a medium-indebted country. We have heard about how honey and milk will flow in Serbia, and so far they have run a little, and now they will flow not in streams, but in rivers and seas, there will be a real flood of honey and milk on the citizens of Serbia. As the MPs of the SRS said, it's simply not real. None of us are stupid or stupid to tell you that you are guilty of everything or that you are responsible for everything – so now at any moment we will say that it is your only fault. It's been happening systemically since the '70s and '80s. Weaknesses are covered in different ways. Of course, since the 1990s, there have been major crises and major conflicts in the former Yugoslavia's space, Serbia must feel it. But what is our problem is that there are not enough serious measures how, in what way and what we need to do. I made it here, and that's why I'm sorry... It's not all right because you're telling me all the time behind my back and you're really distracting me. And I have no intention of telling you this because I want some kind of political point to win, and I'm counting after a minute you're gonna end up, but you're not finishing up, and I hear you talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25064	Mr. Wolfiche, just for the sake of having a session, I'm exchanging consultations, not behind my back, but at my desk. I'm sorry if that's distracting you. I'll give you a full concentration to read this data.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25065	You heard what your party colleague told me, that I'm crazy or that I'm not normal. Imagine some lunatic who'll still be focused and you'll be talking behind his back all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25066	Please don't win as the speaker speaks. Go on, Mr. Wolfie, and pay no attention to what your colleagues, party or party, say about you. It is important for me that the Assembly function in a way that is legal, as is yours, and I ask you to continue your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25067	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, I am very proud that Mr. Albianic is not my party colleague, and the people will judge who he is and who he is. Nobody's happier than me that we're on completely distant political sexes, so I guess our feelings are common. So we couldn't hear how and in what way Serbia, apart from the empty story of how it's going to be on the right track, so some of them got upset that someone said we didn't know what that road was, that we didn't know what it meant, except for that empty story and what you had already fed up with God's father. Every day for some conversation you keep going, something very important is happening, and here it is, there's a Miscevic meeting, this one met, this one met, I don't know which way I don't know who, and what's the result of all this?- I'm sorry. Does he have any results, Minister, for all of this? Where's that score? You want me to tell you? Now I've got a message, I hear three of Ratko Mladic's son's boyfriends getting arrested! Is there anything better for the people? There is, in the Jagodinska brewery today, people had to defend their factory; and they don't know from anyone in any way, there are 15 injured 30 arrested. Is there anything that's good for the people? Is there anything out there that people will live better? What are Serbian citizens going to get out of this? Do you want me to tell you why this is being brought? Not for this. This is being brought in to be fully party-political control and everything going through the Privatisation Agency, and what hasn't worked out that way so far. Was there a robbery? Yes, it was! Now there's gonna be more!- I'm sorry. It's the only possible reason, nothing else, and there's nothing else. I was just waiting for another special agency to be established – it says here that it is the agency responsible for privatisation operations. And I'm waiting for another agency to be built, someone else to wash a little money and solve the problems. We brought here what the economic experts of Serbian radicals wrote about our problems, and that's what I wanted to talk about, so they stopped me. I'll take advantage of a part of what strangers, who you respect so much, about economic problems, don't talk about politics. For example, Giuliano Amato, president of the International Commission for the Balkans, recently says the unemployment level is far above the level of tolerance. In Serbia-Montenegro, the number of people below the poverty line is about 30%. Unemployment rate 33%. And then he commented on what we're always talking about, to see just how much they respect us for them, from time to time, and he says, "The biggest problem is the high degree of corruption." Now listen to his example, to see only that it is not said by Serbian radicals, he stated the fact that the basic motto of a businessman in Serbia is the basic principle – the first to arrive, the first to be taken. There are in Serbian a few nicer words and a few nicer sentences, but I think it shows enough vividly how and how this works in our country today. We have industrial production, and that has nothing to do with the market. It's true, it would be good if the market were to be left behind and everything couldn't be left to the laissez faire economy. But it's not about the market, it's about crime and corruption, not the market, which doesn't mean they don't have any. Of course, there are in every country in the world, and I'm not accusing you of everything that's going on, because I'm just not one of those people who's gonna say when it rains that he's guilty of power, like you're guilty of all SRS. You when you rule, not personally, but talking about your authority, when you rule in any way, whenever you have any problem, you are guilty of Serbian radicals. Industrial production naturally stagnates, only 45% of industrial production from the 1990s. Privatisation has not led to an increase in the international competitiveness of the economy, the recovery of domestic production and employment growth. The privatisation revenues, as we heard from Minister Dinkic today, and that is the only truth he has said, indeed, went to cover public expenditures and did not go into development at all. Our key problem for tomorrow that we will have, for any time in the future, is that the development strategy is not done. What are our problems in Serbia today? These are: the decline of industrial agricultural production, the lack of competitiveness of industrial agricultural production on domestic and foreign markets, insufficient and underpaid subsidies for agricultural production and exports, the lack of competition of external trade activities, the artificial decline in imports due to the de jure-based unproduced but de facto existing inacceptability, the uncovered imports at 25-30%, the stagnation of low-level and external trade deficit exports, the extremely fast and non-planned liberalisation which did not follow the extra-carinal restrictions of imports, the excessive tax burdens, restrictive monetary policy, the over-supply of loans to stimulate economic activities, fixed and artificial exchange rates, high public consumption, inflation pressures on liquidity of economic operators, the monetary mass of M1, the bank's high level of finance, the capitalisation of the banks, the capitalisation of the banks, the economy and the capital of the banks. Our country's economic problems are not today. In monetary-credit policy, we also have great pains from the fuller Euroisation of the economy and the population, to the fact that we are highly import-dependent, so that no devaluation so far has been able to produce positive effects, since import dependence has very quickly neutralized the positive cost effects of devaluation. On the other hand, an artificially maintained course collects exports and cheaps imports. The restrictive monetary policy measures I was talking about, the National Bank of Serbia... (Vladimir Humane, from the place: "Time". )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25068	Keep going, Mr. Wolfie, I've interrupted you, which is why I'm extending your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25069	That's not the problem, I was talking about something that had nothing to do with politics or insult you or anything else. It bothered you, too. You have a problem with everything a man tells you. You don't have to wave your hands. I can see less, to tell you the truth, I have a minus one, but I see enough time. You and your glasses can't help you see where Serbia went under you...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25070	Please, Mr. Vukic, don't argue with MPs, I take care of time and I warn the speaker, there's no reason, I warned the MP not to throw it away, there's no reason for you to discuss it with him in this way, be kind and continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25071	Mr. Markovic, I'm going to discuss with whoever I want, not who you're going to tell me. Now I'm going to tell you something, I'm going to keep talking within that time that the SRS has, it's no problem at all, at least wait for me to finish my sentence. We won't vote for this law, nor for everyone else, because you don't know what the strategy is, you don't know, and you don't see Serbia in the future. The only place you see Serbia is from April 1st to April 5th, from April 5th to April 30th, until May 5th, until May 30th, again, and even when you're done with the dirtiest jobs, and if you don't give them God, you will again have something from May to May, and you will remain in power at all costs, and you will blame everything for the SRS for only one reason, which will make this vetiosus vitiosus make once this vicious circle of rigging tenders, auctions, auctions, auctions, people who are absolutely irreplaceable in various chambers of commerce, sports associations, clubs, cultural institutions and everything else, would have to be interrupted once. Because that thief's bike would have to be broken once. That's why we won't vote for this bill either.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25072	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word. No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS and SRS. The word is made by MP Mika Vlaović and then by Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, this supplementation of the law should have been done much earlier. I don't mean to generalise, to put all the cooperatives in the same basket in Serbia, but one part of the good cooperatives, at least in Vojvodina, are their own purpose for now. People who manage cooperatives use this property, advocate loans, raise loans, and many of them are rich. It is good that this proposal is put on the agenda, should be supported and should be prevented from trading social property. In fact, there is little cooperative property in Vojvodina, the cooperative was poorly developed, and then, when it started, it was created by cooperatives. It wasn't created by the company's employees. It is good to limit that these assets are not alienated, that they remain storage premises, business premises, that tomorrow, when the law on cooperatives or cooperative societies comes on the agenda, or as this is already baptized and adopted, it remains for farmers who, through these cooperatives, will exercise their rights, sell products, buy re-promaterials, and so the group comes into a better situation. Subsidies are mentioned. All right, I'm a farmer and both my sons are farmers and I risk farmers attacking me if I say something that's not in their interest. All the premiums so far have not been given to farmers for good. The premium on soybeans, sunflowers, sugar beet has been abolished, prices are again the same as with premiums. Last year, only one who took soy seed was given a premium for soybeans, and soybeans are self-fertile and can be sown by the farmer in his own field. For 100 kilos of soybeans, it was supposed to give us 250 kilos. Practically, the premium achieved went to whoever had the soybean processing oil, selected seeds from mercantile soybeans and gave them to farmers as seeds. He got a premium on it, and the farmers got a little bit of a little something. One more thing, subsidies give countries that are richer than us that have a strong industry and poorly developed agriculture. Well, in order not to be dependent on imports of agricultural products from the industry take part in income and invest in agriculture. Until yesterday, even today, agriculture maintains one part of the industry and whoever stands for the subsidy says where they're going to take that place to. It's not about subsidies, it's not about premiums, it's about something else. Three men hold the processing of olives, three people in Serbia hold sugars, so those three four men can easily agree on what price to determine, and these others still cannot agree on what price they will produce. So the tycoons, who have easily come to prey, rob the malts in a certain way. That proposal, which the Ministry of Trade had, I support, although it is not the agenda now, to limit the margins, because the margins are those that rob farmers and citizens of Serbia. From field to table earning processors and traders, agriculture remains little, and customers buy expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25074	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, then Verica Radeta, Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. You asked to be fourth? You agree, Mr. Wolfie. All right. Here you go, and I'm sorry, this is about the list, since there's been a change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25075	Before I go on this bill, Mr. Vlaovic, do you attack the government or support it? (Mila Vlaovic, from the place: I support. ) Who took off these subsidies? An unnatural red-black coalition or this Ivana Dulic? (Mika Vlaovic, from the scene: I agree that they took off, if you listened well to what I said. That means the villagers know who's agreeing. I listened to what you...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25076	Excuse me, Mr. Vlaovic, Mr. Krasic, I apologize, I understand your friendly disagreements, please, we do not allow that, we have just said this, because of all the other MPs, there is no discussion with the speaker that the speaker can maintain concentration and address. That goes for you, too, Mr. Krassic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25077	Okay, well, I don't know what you said, but come on. This is the epochal law on supplements and, Mr Dimitrievich, inform Minister Bubal that he is premature. This law is premature, this supplement. You're asking for this law to be passed at the moment that the social property in cooperatives has, in some ways, changed its own form. Among other things, the way you cited this point of the agenda in the introduction, and you listed only two forms of how social property is melted: whether through the founding capital of a new company or in another way. So you're too late. I have to say, it's too early. Why is it too early? This whole job isn't done, and you're trying to stop it. After two full years, you have reportedly learned about this problem the moment an agency is established to run a register of economic operators. Then you reportedly came to the knowledge that there is a so-called cooperative. State capital. I think it's much more right to talk about state capital in these cooperatives than social one, and now I'm going to tell you why. Obviously, this law regulates the legal position and status of cooperatives. In this context, perhaps the central issue is the property of the cooperative. So the work is regulated by some other regulation. It's called 'cooperative', it's one form of business, it's called one subject, but we basically have a different situation. We have small agricultural cooperatives where simply peasants have created a cooperative or inherited something from the 20th and some years, in fact, early 20th century when cooperatives started (and you from G17 plus to know, the People's Radical Party has made it possible to create cooperatives in Serbia, to know about history) so that we have small cooperatives that have done business with these cooperative capitals, but we have something called the Agricultural Cooperative. In the meantime he became a giant, so let's say, in Lykovec, that Milkar was a formal-law cooperative, then you have, I must say, great industrial capacities where it is produced, processed, and even bottled wine, and day and day have in their name a farming cooperative. Not to tell you any further, you probably understand what it's all about. Some cooperatives formally have their cooperatives as founders, I don't know if a hundred or another number of founders, and you see, after two years, you remember that there is social capital in cooperatives and that there is a need to save it in the way it was done in 2001, and here I have to correct you when the Company Act has been amended, when it is excluded from privatisation, and even by that member – four hundred and some are given the opportunity to introduce temporary measures. So your government also used that legal authority so it introduced temporary measures, and now I can't say exactly how many of these companies were, yes - 398, but it happened that the capital had to be saved because there was the possibility that it would melt. There are several forms of loss of that capital. One of these famous forms is when employees eat social capital, and this is how it looks brutally, but based on their business, so much reduction in the underlying assets, so that those assets lose their value and then, literally, when they're cut, you have the means but you don't have value. So you have an object, you have something, but there's no value. There's another way, and it's been a practice these few months, maybe even a year, that an economic operator that exists under the name of cooperatives, is trying in every way possible to get rid of social capital in order to get another status, I have to tell a company that works with private capital. Somewhere they just couldn't wait for something to show up, get rid of that social capital, because then they count on them to do better business. Of course, any initiative aimed at protecting social capital is a good one. It's good every initiative that needs to make it impossible to disprove social capital, but I'm not sure if it's trendy and that it was trendy when this government was formed. It is likely that some social property would be sold at far higher prices than were sold after the government's intervention, specifically Minister Dinkic. One institute had some value, I don't know, 18 and some million euros, since it made some noise, and then, allegedly, it goes legally, sold for 10, in fact, lost the eight million. So when you, not specifically You Ministers, but when the Government of Vojislav Kostunica runs to the National Assembly with such an explanation, therefore, heartwarming – to protect social capital, I am absolutely sure that it grows to its opposite, based on some experience that exists, and I see here, probably five or six MPs who are members of the Parliament's Privatisation Committee and they know very well what the problems are in the companies that are privatizing. So there was capital, there was a process, there was a loss of capital, then there was an auction, even more lost capital, the contract was closed, the first war was paid, and the second maybe it wasn't even paid, the contract was broken, there was no capital. So it's not enough to just explain a bill – the government is motivated by the desire to stop the sale of social capital, state capital, until the moment a new system regulation is passed that will regulate the area. We're only talking about it today and yesterday, because yesterday was on the agenda of the bill on planning and construction and it's been said, we're changing this forester's law, but we're aware that what we're changing isn't what we want, but in a year or two days we're going to make a new law that's going to be our way. It doesn't mean anything. If he wanted to change the law, he could have started on the first day, if he needed an expert opinion on how the law should look, he could have had any organization or association of construction engineers ask, so in 17 days they would have drawn up a draft of such a good law. I also proposed in 2003, get the regulations from Slovenia that were valid in 70 and some years, you'll have the best building regulations, otherwise it's not that. You see, before you were here Mr. Dinkic, he escaped immediately, he couldn't answer one question, then he started a little left, and then he says, you know, it's not enough that we, because we said there'd be some concession from Saturday to Belgrade, there's a big frequency, there's interest in the concession, but it's, it says, a problem from Belgrade to Užica. Six months ago, that same minister from this pay phone warned us, like, they were shooting traffic flows, I don't know how many thousands should be in an hour, so if so many thousands show up, then the investment is worth it and so on. I don't know if you in government are even talking. I'm absolutely sure Dinkic and Velja Ilic don't talk. So six months from now, there's a different story about the same problem. I'm distracting you because the same thing will happen to this bill. Tell Mr. Bubal to take a look at some books written on this subject, tell him the SRS only advocates two forms of its own, private and state. What's in between and what's modality, and even cooperative, is actually one of the two forms of property, and when it comes to cooperative, it's probably an entirely private property that gets some special status because it becomes the founding capital of an association. But if you think you're going to pass a new law on cooperatives and regulate only that part of how 150 people are going to join some means to do business, work, then you don't need the law. Our agriculture in the cooperative area is not required. I don't see the benefit of who's a member of the cooperative, and that's the basic problem. And that's why I said at first, I don't know who the opposition is, and I don't know who the government is. The man who votes for all government proposals, comes out and criticises the government in a very appropriate way with examples from practice: explains what was lost in the meantime, who achieved some monopoly on our market and because of these monopolies there are no peasants in the portable sense of words, there is neither co-operative, but someone there is harassing him, depending on someone. So, if you're bringing a new law on cooperatives, make sure it's supposed to be some kind of benefits and some benefit for why peasants join in that form with their property, so why don't you tell them their work and their products, in order to come uniquely into the market, in order to achieve a better price than "every lice" from the counter to the counter. It must also count on some benefit, some benefit from such an organized form of production. It's still an organized form of production. I'm telling you this because I used to be the director of a big working community, which at the time had a basic organization of cooperatives that was the social variant of the ZEM cooperative, etc. As it's written, as is the existing Cooperatives Act and how it all works, I haven't touched the part where there are so many and so many thousands of cooperatives, and so much, perhaps an incomparably smaller number of people who are in a working relationship with the community. They now have completely different legal status: this one has employee status, this one has status, there, someone, cooperative cooperatives, contractually, and so on, so at the end of the year they have to share some profits. And while they were formerly those cooperatives, these peasants were able to go to PIO voluntarily, since 1986, forced them to be mandatory. As soon as you made them, not you, but those before, to go to mandatory, it all fell apart. So, we suspect that this is the only reason why this law is supplemented, but I have to tell you, Mr. Dimitrievich, which is why you inform Bubal, I can't say that these supplements you're giving are supposed to apply retroactively, I can't tell you that. But I must draw your attention to the fact that state property and social property is also protected by some other regulations and as sanctions for non-compliance with these regulations, the futility of the contract appears. And if you think you're protecting social property in cooperatives from the day of this law without seeing what happened in the meantime, then you're making an even bigger mistake. I'm telling you very precisely. So, protection under this law is possible from the day of adoption on this basis, but use the powers that exist in other regulations to put aside all available acts that were intended to alienate social property. Because then this makes sense. Although, I believe that social property can be protected in these forms even without this amendment to the law. However, apparently, when the agenda was being drawn up, what you imagined here, the futility and its legal consequences, and they have had a very important sanction that something had not even existed since the beginning, means that alienation was not even done. Look, but I'm getting the impression that you're going to be in big trouble with some companies that formally-legal in their name have been named cooperatives, and in the meantime they're privatized. Then I could ask a question, not to you, but to Mr. Bubal, why he's late with this law or why you're premature, since the dirty work isn't done. It could have happened here that the whole dirty work was done, and then at the end of the point of the dirty work – the law we're protecting. So it doesn't happen again, and it doesn't even have a theoretical chance of happening anymore. The dirt's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25078	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. So, only a bit of a change in order, the word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, then Natasa Jovanovic, and Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go. Please, Mr. Sarovic is last reported, here you can check. He who reported, therefore, wrote down first names with Cyrillic, then with Latin, and then I added Cyrillic. So, three different manuscripts, and I'm going in exact order. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few months ago, I told Minister Bubal that he submitted in this House on behalf of the Serbian government the amendments and the addition of the law to the Hague tribunal. So whenever a situation happens to him that isn't regulated as it suits him, he shows up here with changes and additions to the law to overcome that problem, the way he thinks it would be best. And, at that time, Minister Bubalo said that by the end of the term, he would never again submit to this parliament a proposal to amend and supplement the law, as MPs remember, SRS MPs certainly, and probably those others, if they were in the O.R. I said this to clarify why Bubalo is not here today, but, as Minister Dimitrijevic said, he was asked. How this government communicates well. The government is asking the minister to come instead of the Bugs to Parliament to explain the proposal. However, it says here that in addition to Predrag Bubal there will be Bojan Dimitrijevic, but, behold, it is not very important for us, simply, I wanted to inform the public that the minister deceives the peoples and citizens of Serbia, and it is not the first time, of course. I think he is somewhere near the end, because he won't be a minister much longer. As regards this proposal for a law supplementing the Co-operation Act, Mr Dimitrijevic read in his name what Bubalo wrote in the law's explanation. Among other things, it says that the reasons for the adoption of this law, given the fact that something has been stated above, in order to prevent an uncontrolled outflow of social property, i.e. social capital from cooperatives that would ultimately lead to the disappearance of cooperatives, given the significant involvement of social capital in the total capital of cooperatives, should be complemented by the current Cooperative Act of this kind of change and addition. Imagine, then, the reasons for passing an emergency procedure like this. It is said that an emergency procedure is proposed to prevent the harmful consequences of cooperatives and society in general, given that recently there has been an outflow of social property from cooperatives, especially through investment and assets in other legal entities. That's also why the law goes against Article 120. The Constitution shall enter into force the following day from the day of its adoption. Because, in Article 120. The Constitution clearly states: "The law, the second regulation or the general act shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." Now, I'm going to explain to you, my dear colleagues, what are the reasons that made Minister Bubal alarming? It is that in the existing Cooperatives Act some things are very precisely defined, among other things, cooperative rules that provide for the conclusion of a cooperative contract in which cooperatives guarantee their assets, and in that contract the profits are distributed precisely and cover potential losses in the cooperative business are covered. The cooperative, or strictly written in the law, can never become a company. That's why it's very interesting where these figures came from now, what Minister Dimitrijevic said here, I don't know from 2,466 cooperatives in 1,978, if I wrote it correctly, maybe not completely accurate, but roughly, over 51 percent is social property. What's this about? It's just that there's probably a cooperative somewhere that's still this good and there's really some social capital, and then, well, the state over its agency and its Djordjevic needs to get involved in this cooperative, take care of that 51 percent, and somewhere significantly less, because it's logical under the Cooperative Act that it can't be 51 percent, but here's to accept it as you told us. Therefore, for this reason, it is proposed that the cooperative, which is a newly added Article 49a, is: “A cooperative that uses assets recorded as social property, i.e. as social capital, cannot, without the prior consent of the Agency responsible for privatisation operations, make decisions on the availability of that property, and in particular decisions on: sale, gift, exchange, use, compliance with trusts, making a deposit, giving mortgages and giving guarantees, giving in the long-term lease and investing in other legal entities.” It's very interesting here that you've also remembered "relationships with trustees". This is at least incorrect – that you advance some potential creditors, you limit some cooperatives and already tell them that they can't make their claims to some society, so you'll get involved well, and if someone doesn't, then they'll be fined with a fine of 50,000 to 3,000,000 dinars, if they make a decision on the availability of assets without the prior consent of the agency responsible for privatisation. These amendments and additions to the Act are entirely with the same objective as the amendments to the Law on Privatisation, amendments to the Act on the Action Fund, amendments to the Charter of Values Act. So, you're doing something here, your media is passing the law on cooperatives, in this particular case. If it weren't for us Serbian radicals, the citizens would really think that you are worthy of government and take care of your citizens and of every segment of this society, and you, in fact, of amending and supplementing the law, just frame what you find interesting, that you take the cock, that Mr. Djordjevic and his Agency everywhere they can, have so far been unable to co-operate, and as of today, you will be involved in cooperatives and you will finish your part of the job. Nothing's funny, ma'am, this is the sad truth of the Serbian state and citizens know it well. Minister Dimitrievich, you promised to have a new cooperative law in a month or two or three. Now I ask you, are you aware of what you said? Why do we need cooperative law after this? You're going to have a good time at 51%, you're going to arrange for every community to be 51%, and then that state shows its concern. When we say, when it comes to NIS and EPS, strategic parts of Serbia's economy, that we have to take care of at least 51% of state capital, it did not occur to you to accept. Then the EPS can privatize up to 70%. You haven't seen any state interest around here. Of course, you don't see the state interest here either, you see individual, personal interests and you see the interest of the full budget, to satisfy some of the wishes of Mladjan Dinkic, those thousand and change sides, Mr. Vukic. The point is that Mladjan Dinkic seems to lack little money in the budget, because of the increase in salaries in the government of the Republic of Serbia, increased salaries in the Belgrade City Assembly, and ordered 20% pay cuts for all local self-government in Serbia. It is a way of functioning this government, such as the way this government functions is promised everything and everything, including the promise of handing over Ratko Mladic, now, until the Big Friday. Since you're used to doing it on Vidovdan, it wouldn't be surprising if you tried to do it on Big Friday or Easter, but I hope God doesn't get away with it this time. You are also free to arrest Mladic's relatives and to arrest the boys who hung out or hang out with Mladic's son. You can no longer intimidate anyone in Serbia. The young man is far from your reach, thank God. You promise Carly del Ponte whatever you want, but you promise in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25080	We agreed in the meantime on a new order, National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Nikola Todorovic, Lazar Cavic, Aleksandar Vukic, Zoran Masic. It's a list of speakers. Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25081	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the minister in charge of this bill has not come, and this is Minister Bubalo, because apparently he is running away from responsibility, I will have to raise some doubts that are justified and justified because Mr Dimitrijevic announced a law on cooperatives, which, as you have heard, will absolutely have no meaning, or will have in that part concerning the distinction within the property of cooperatives, because this change in the point of the law, so that the citizens of Serbia, would know, refers to part of the social capital held by cooperatives in Serbia, the ones they still possess. The tradition of cooperativeism, and Mr Krasic also spoke of since the time of the People's Radical Party, as well as the traditions of entrepreneurship and what this small, medium-sized economy should be founded on today, is completely destroyed and wiped out. In the early 1990s, there was a ghastly fall, when we had a break in privatisation in Serbia, when the Democratic Party insisted that such privatisation law be put out of effect, that is, to break the privatisation process. And we in the Woodland have more of these scandalous examples. In the villages of Šumadija, which have over 100 years old cooperative tradition, in Kragujevac, in the Racan municipality, in the Knićan municipality, in particular, and cooperatives have been brought to the brink of destruction. However, day and day, in the sense that they have had the opportunity to renovate livestock funds, machinery, through arrangements with banks on very favourable loans, through cooperation with one of the largest producers of bread and pastries, which is the "Gytoproduct" Kragujevac, through co-operation with the Kragujevac milker, which, in the meantime, especially under your authority, has suffered a steep drop. As the legacy of social capital, which we have due to the arrival of communists to power after 1945 and the social form of property, which is in fact everyone's, and nobody's, amazingly how much trouble it caused in the privatisation process, and that neither the previous DOS government, who only wanted to grab as much as possible and to put individuals in their pockets, and also this one is now not going to go to these, in the right sense of the words of injustice done to farmers during those decades of communist rule, documents. When the prominent Serbian hosts before World War II, between the two world wars, people joined together, whether it was in Knician Grivac or in Žunj, or in Draca near Kragujevac or there in Topoli, Vinca, it was all one thing, they had the best intention of helping each other and helping those who intend to improve their agricultural production, regardless of what branch agriculture they are dealing with. When you enter this forest ata, I mean administratively, although this gate is already under Avala, to go, say, from Topola, from the topola villages, to start from Kragujevci, to Kniæ and there to Kragujeva Raca, there is not a single cooperative that has survived, and I keep telling you, from this area, I was born there and I know how in my village the villagers rejoiced when they were able as cooperatives to achieve all these benefits and how each of my relatives and their friends could do so, and in many villages across Serbia. It's simply impossible today, because today, farmers are being helped in the following way. Here I am going to tell you, and I have been asked by a respected host from the village of Velika Krčmara near Kragujevac, to ask first of all these gentlemen of the government, how gentlemen are coming to the agricultural loan today (because this prominent Serbian host from the Great Krčmars who heard that there is talk somewhere about it) because he no longer has a cooperative, there is no more cooperative in the Racan municipality and to whom he can address. To go to the bank? Who's just gonna take him in? To go to the Development Fund, so he's a member of the SRS. By the way, he is not a member of the G17, of the DSS or of these yellow ones where the president of the municipality is in the Democratic Party municipality. He heard a man give out some loans from 150 to 250,000 dinars, and he reckons he doesn't have to go to the bank, according to that already known ad, to "take out a cow," go right in and out and buy a cow with an 18% interest and renew the cattle fund. But he calculated, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to help the peasants in Serbia, and so he will come up with the loan. It's not gonna happen. He only heard it and it is possible that the list of selected was made in Raca Kragujevaca, it was made, that we know very well in the autumn when elections were held in the Municipality of Kula, in the town of Ruski Krstur, so it was done in Bačka Palanca, in Pivnica, all the experts from G17 came. Now they're doing it in the area of Kragujevac City, in all the Kragujevac villages and they just say to people – join us, here are the loans, they're about to arrive. Before the elections in Kula Municipality, they promised only in that village over 50 credits, and I hear that the main agronomist from the party whose president is in the refugee, the Bogoljub's party, says – they're going to go and buy me voters, as if they both had a lot to do and rebel who's going to kidnap someone sooner. They're not crazy forest farmers to believe in empty promises. There is no such thing because there is no systematic arrangement of the branches of agriculture, namely the setting of priorities. That's what people themselves have to do. Since the end of the government is certainly approaching to you, and I believe that many young people (not only these old respected hosts like this from Krčmar whom I mentioned, along with the situation, I am absolutely sure) when it comes to demarcation in terms of how much of social capital it is, are now made possible by this law, and will allow you to give to famous customers in the lease above all, at great prices, huge soil complexes, yet I believe (because I follow how and how they get it, and how they try to get some new projects of young educated people who want to stay in the village, there are not many examples, but God will give them more and our radical government will make it possible for them, because he encourages me when I hear that a young educated man in a big village near Lazarec decided not to go further, although he was a great student at the Electrical School, but that he was able to restore his livestock and to stay in his household care, so that there is not much that there is no longer. In the chačan and especially in the posojna region, they throw tons and tons of fruit they produce, because they can't possibly place both across the agro-community and through the fruit institute from Cačka. There is a family in the village of Ježevica near Cačka, which every year because of such a lack of care of the state, and the man has two sons who are seriously doing the job, the best varieties of the Serbian apple remain and fail, they have their freezers, they promise that exports are secure, there is nothing and they are left to themselves. While cooperatives in Serbia, in Serbian villages, were returning to the beginning of the story, they did not have to be left to themselves. This is how people, like those in the Valjev district, use the opportunity, they heard and it's a good job, they encouraged themselves and started with some modest means, those who lost their jobs with that pathetic 100-euro or 200-mark compensation and started to produce good and in the world a very esteemed and expensive type of Japanese mushrooms called'scitka'. Whether to produce "scitka" or we as a state, or I'm sure it will be done by the future radical agriculture minister, to seriously start restructuring Serbia's economy, it will only be possible for citizens to see it. Until that happens, I have to tell our farmers that they're really waiting for this, like every year, to get harder and harder. There is a great engagement and the struggle of Serbian radicals, primarily the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, Professor Zoran Mašić and all others. I'm not a member of the Agriculture Committee, but because of all the troubles that have hit the forest end, above all, the Kragujevac, the direct damage we had last year of 154 million, I mean the City of Kragujevac, on agricultural crops due to the elemental accident. A single dinar of the government of the Republic of Serbia in Kragujevac did not send to help re-emerge those plastics, orchards and recover people, although Professor Masic insisted. All we heard, especially in the intensive work of the Committee on Agriculture during this unnecessary assembly break, because the Committee met four or five times, we were able to see scandalous things, which is that no one systematically cares about the orchards, the warlords, that no one was concerned in such a way as the members of the Committee and the Commission did. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not do so until the end and in a valid way to make up for the damage. Not to mention the county chiefs, especially the chief of the forest district, and then what should we talk about? Current things from an accident, from an accident that unfortunately has hit major areas in Serbia, several districts, are not resolved. How, then, do we expect you to do something in the right sense of saying that there is a need for restructuring in Serbian agriculture? A group of economists from the Kragujeva Faculty of Economics came out with one more than a good study of where Serbian agriculture is going and how to implement the process of restructuring, because if the orchards from year to year start from DOS government, then last year's throws at tons of raspberries, cherries, apples and other fruits, have problems with you, if there are no more subsidies, if the peasants in Šumadia and Kragujevac have come to the point where they got out of the revolution one morning and settled in front of the Kragujeva milkmaker, which was founded in 1954, and spilled all their milk because they don't believe more of this government, just like the local one, then there is no help for you, and with you or farmers in Serbia. Since we are talking about another problem today, yesterday we are talking about mining, so today all of these tasks that the government is breaking into and dragging citizens into, there is no movement, no better Serbia, no better future to change power and to the arrival of our party in key positions in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25082	Replication to the mention of the parliamentary group, or party, deputy president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Snezana Stojanovic - Plassic, and then will be given the word by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25083	Thank you. I was really trying to refrain from all the comments during today and yesterday, but I think that sometimes the measure is being taken and that simply for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, the truth should be told. I admire a colleague who, with equal passion and equal expertise, is able to discuss both military issues and agricultural issues and mining issues, it is truly awe-inspiring. I am not such an expert in agriculture, I would much prefer to hear the experts discuss this subject, but I must say what is known to me as the MP and what is known to everyone who deals with this area. This is the first Ministry of Agriculture to adopt a serious strategy on the development of agriculture that, as far as I'm aware, all agreed in the Committee on Agriculture. So, everyone agrees that this strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia is a document that is a good basis for the development of agriculture in Serbia. Based on this document, there is also a policy developing in the area of agriculture, which everyone thinks is good, for the simple reason why it is now the first time that someone systematically deals with these issues. We had very tight possessions, very old-fashioned machinery, we had a number of problems that certainly Serbian agriculture did not qualify for the European match and the European market, which is expecting us soon. This is what the Ministry of Agriculture, according to general estimates, is doing most seriously, from the stock fund to all other issues. I especially wanted to pay attention to the question of credit, because that's a very interesting question to me, for the simple reason it's not true. It is absolutely incorrect that obtaining agricultural credit has anything to do with any membership in any party. I come from a region where very few agricultural loans have been distributed, which is south of Serbia. It's absolutely true because, unfortunately, in my town, there is a very small number, I think there are only nine loans, there are about 2,000 members of the G17 plus in Leskovac. So it's completely untrue that G17 plus membership has anything to do with this. This has to do with how much capacity local self-government has to do with helping farmers file credit applications. In my town where there's a socialist -- radical government, unfortunately, there's no such capacity. People complain that when they go to the local self-government units that are in charge of this, for registration, which is necessary to get credit to various cataster certificates and all that is needed to have credit documentation, they simply tell you there – who's lying to you so you can get credit. These are problems that people do not get loans in Serbia. Otherwise, whoever has complete documentation, who manages to build a quality program, he can get credit. Let me say one more thing. Getting credit doesn't depend on the Ministry of Agriculture. I asked a lot of questions, because I was interested in giving the people of Leskovec, or the villagers of Leskovec who were interested, so I'll tell you. The Ministry of Agriculture approves the programme, and then the documentation goes to the Guarantee Fund. I agree that my colleague knows a lot better about it. The Guarantee Fund, then, checks whether there are conditions for the household to receive a farm loan. When all this is done and the information that I have, at least from my neighborhood, is that a huge number of people with success pass the procedure at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Guarantee Fund. Where's the problem? The problem arises most often in banks and I think it's something the Ministry of Agriculture is aware of. So, banks are the ones who make the final decision on this, depending on their own interest, whether or not they approve the loan. And what's their interest? The interest is to get the loan back. Banks, based on their business policies, decide whether to lend a loan to someone or not. Unfortunately, if there are no full guarantees, and in my neighborhood the most common problem is unresolved property relations, parcels that are not entered, which are led to grandfathers and great-grandfathers, then the problem is that the bank gives final approval for the loan. That's the truth that I know, and that truth has absolutely nothing to do with whether it's from a party or not. Of course, all parties are invited to help their members, to write quality programs, to introduce them to the procedure and help them get credit. It's something that's completely legitimate.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25084	Mr. Vucicu, the president of the Committee on Agriculture has been mentioned and reported for replication. None of the parties, nor the parliamentary group, are mentioned in a negative context. She's mentioned, I'm not arguing, I'm giving you notice. The government of Leskovac municipality, as a socialist-radical, is mentioned. That's what I heard. In relation to this, you will be given the word as a party representative, but the first word has to say Mr Mašić himself, and I am warning you all, because I think we share concerns before Mr Mašić arrives, and I want to say that both the Committee on Agriculture and Mr Mašić, himself, has been informing about the way we work and the results of work and the President of the Assembly and MPs. Please don't be afraid of citizens like this, it's really necessary, citizens can join parties they like and they shouldn't be afraid it'll affect getting credits, and let's not create such an atmosphere in any way. God forbid the citizens have to leave the parties to get credit. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25085	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still want to replicate Mrs. Plassic, with all due respect, in relation to something that has been said for this payphone, which refers to the area of agriculture. Since the Committee on Agriculture was mentioned, I found myself called, since I am in office as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. The truth works, first of all, to start with a development strategy, a long-term strategy for agricultural development. In several sessions, the Committee on Agriculture discussed the document, and we adopted the document in principle, with a considerable number of objections to the concept of the strategy, with the promise of both the Minister and his associates, who actively participated in the debate with us at the time, that these corrections and corrections would be carried out, which were primarily made by the members of the Committee and of certain professional and scientific workers in the field of agriculture. Unfortunately, I must say that the Committee has absolutely not been informed of whether these remarks were considered in the context of the discussion by the professional and scientific public and of the fact that the Committee gave its conclusions to the Ministry in terms of amending this document, but rather that document was adopted by the Government, and I, as chairman of the Committee, did not receive any of the documents and extensions. It's said to be on the Ministry's website, so take a look. If this is a long-term strategy, if it is a strategic document, we think it should have been printed in several hundred or thousands of copies, divided by agricultural producers, because the Ministry has already issued some professional publications, so it could, in particular, be delivered to us to the MPs. That's true, there are board members, I can confirm. The next thing you know, as far as credit is concerned, I also said about this speaker, that this government has done in terms of stimulating agricultural production through budget projections and that significant lending funds have been allocated. However, I also have personal knowledge, and so does the Committee, that there have been certain party privileges, at the very least, in the assignment or even some association of agricultural producers such as 105 plus, everything has a 'plus' sign in some way. It's an association of agricultural producers, founded in Bačka. I don't want to, for the sake of the dignity of these people, to mention the names and amounts they received, but it is symptomatic that some people belonging to the G17 membership and who are promoters and associations or associations of agricultural producers received 200,000 euros in credit. It's problematic in a country like this and with such a degree of agricultural development that the amount of 200,000 credits is yes, but if I have to say the name and name of one, I don't really want to speak the name. Exactly, for this reason, the Committee apologized, Mr. President, I finish, insisted with the Ministry of Agriculture that they provide us with a list of names of agricultural producers, for which they received funds and amounts. The Ministry of Agriculture did not want to give us that information, and then we set up a group of three members of the Agriculture Committee to look into it, chooses a dozen of those citizens who have received loans, and to make an insight into the purpose of spending these funds and the ability to repay them, or whether these people are returning loans. That's what we have to do for the next few days. According to us, there was no reason not to give us precise information about it. Compared to this insight into the list, it is symptomatic that there are again some people mentioned here, the owner of the "Future" from Curuga, a gentleman, who is otherwise an adviser to the agriculture of Mr. Labus, so Vitosevic, received a loan from some 15 million dinars to improve livestock. This gentleman, I've already mentioned it here, importing heifers and selling to our farmers. Therefore, if someone was getting money for these purposes to import and resell, then it is not in the right sense to stimulate agricultural production. Therefore, that our proposal is respected in the right sense to create insight and verification, otherwise the Regulation provides for an obligation to carry out a verification of the dedicated spending of these couples, thus allowing doubt which will draw and give reason to criticise it. In any case, be sure as well as you as MPs, and our public, we'll give these ten agricultural producers, one DSS representative, one G17 and one SRS, and after that check we'll report all the irregularities we see there. So much and thank you. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25086	It's all right. Thank you, Mr. Machine. You will remain at your request for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the first time that MPs have attacked Natasu Jovanovic today. I did not go out because Natasha Jovanovic needed someone to defend her, as she defended herself today, and Albianic has not yet recovered, two more will not. I came out for something else to say to you. You say you're an expert in mining, you're an expert in agriculture, you're an expert in this planning, you come out as an expert. She came out as a representative of the people, as the people see and feel. He has a mother in the country he goes to, even today, if he has to dig and weed and everything he needs from agricultural works, which he can't say what ordinary people feel, which he shouldn't say. The fact that Natasa Jovanovic sits here all day, unlike you, look, there are six MPs of the majority and I have to admit, seven of them, six of them from G17, the poorest of you are in power, I have to ask you, what bothers you about where good luck is that all MPs like Natasa Jovanovic are working and doing their job. That's the point, not to talk about it in a mockery way or trying to make fun of someone. That's what you're talking about, not her. She will speak as a representative of the people, as an ordinary woman representing her neighbours, friends, all the people she meets the way people chose her and according to the SRS programme. This effort deserves respect, which is why people love it, and who agree and disagree, because they see it fighting for its principles and for its ideas. You see, while many other SRS MPs are fighting, and for the sake of the public, there are currently three or four times more SRS MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia than the rest of them combined. I brought to show you what Boris Tadic is up to. Boris Tadic, ladies and gentlemen... Excuse me, Mr. President, I'll show you later. You see, Boris Tadic made it, he says, again, so now Topalovici (shows the poster), there we are, the marathoners are running an honorary circle, they are very smart, and Boris Tadic signed himself, as you can see. I don't know if he was counseled by a pheasant counsellor, Nebojsa Krstic, or not. There we are, Toma Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. And now I have a few serious questions, and we'll end up having a little fun. I'm on my own. Do you see how we advertise them, because they don't like to do anything, so we can show the people of Serbia what they do. At the moment of talks on Kosovo and Metohija, when we have a million problems in the country, the people have no bread to eat, what they spend money on! They take salaries here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they take salaries from the citizens of Serbia, and they spend them, here, on this. I deliberately set out to make jokes on my own account, they put, see, Mr. President, what a nice picture they put on me, they wrote "Mirko." It's so beautiful. "Mirko" wrote. Did they watch the end of that movie, what Mirko does to them at the end of the movie? Looks like they haven't seen it in a while. Respected citizens of Serbia, since we made a little joke, this is a picture and an opportunity of the President of the Republic. That's what he does. It's the only job they do. Do you know what they did? Since they thought, I guess, as they've done to someone now, I don't know, what a pity, I wonder what they call me, like, a lot of reporters a day, two, three. I say, on their website published. Nope. They've already made preparations. And did you see what we did to them? Now, like, that's, did you see what the president and party of the President of the Republic are doing!- I'm sorry. They spend millions a month, they receive from the citizens of Serbia and they didn't enter this room! They're not going into the O.R. Only Serbian citizens pay them, and they take that money and print posters like this. Thanks a lot, I'll give them, I've got an even better picture, this one's my second beauty.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25088	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25089	What are you asking me now...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25090	To bring an end, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25091	I will, Mr. President, you're very kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25092	I'm going to ask you something, and I can do it right now because I've invested a lot in copyright, and I'm asking you not to show anything that belongs to copyright and what someone else has abused, because it's like supporting those who pirate, and it's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25093	You're right. I wanted to show only what they do and what they do, because Serbian citizens don't have the impression and they don't have enough knowledge of what they do during the day, while MPs here work and stay here every day until six, seven or eight o'clock in the evening, and come early to the National Assembly in the morning. They do nothing but watch people's money spend. I don't worry about this, as I said, let the "Mirka" be well guarded, but not related to "Mirko", this "Mirko" will go after, and this "Bili", which they have drawn here, and everyone else, will go after them for all the thieves that have committed in Serbia and Tadic's tycoons headed with Dragan Gilas, who today is one of the biggest, and perhaps the biggest tycoon in Serbia today, will have to answer for their crime and corruption. I hope there's a chance when there's more time, they won't be in the congregation, they won't be doing these serious jobs. Maybe they'll be digging corn somewhere, in juvie facilities. I am sure that even then, they will do something more incomparable for the citizens of Serbia than they do today. In the end, I'm quite sure that according to these Topalovics, something I liked, I hope they didn't have any ugly associations, I suppose. I have to inform you, a man who's been driving Tomislav Nikolic for many years is his last name, so he died, unfortunately, and I don't suppose that's what they wanted someone to know. Let me tell them, if they think of these Topalovics from the film, here, I promise them and I take that role, completely, whatever they want, that means, we'll bury them politically and very quickly and to the end, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25094	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie, for this long replica. The word will be given to MP Nikola Todorovic, and I am obliged to inform again, therefore, all MPs of all parliamentary groups who have come from election lists, who have elected them, to the Assembly, receive money in accordance with the law and must be taken into account by the professional service. As that money is being spent, it is not correct to make a statement at all, and it is a matter of the political parties themselves, but it is very important that all MPs are able to work in the Assembly, to help make the law and, above all, by law, get money for it. It is their political right whether they will participate in the work, whether they will participate in the adoption of the law, whether they will discuss it and thus seek to change the better country, the way they think or will not do it, and each of us and of you will answer to their constituents. Thank you for giving me a chance to remind me of this. Here, the word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, so Lazar Cavic, then you will have the opportunity, Mr. Vukic, as speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry, as far as this proposed law doesn't make sense, I will, a few remarks, commenting on the provisions of the Cooperative Act, indicate that the property acquired in cooperatives, any type, become social, state-owned, cannot be transformed into a company and thus bring into the context of its privatisation, corporate restructuring or otherwise decision-making. If you have had the opportunity to look at the text of the Cooperatives Act, which you are invited to in 1996, and the amendments in 1998 and 2005, then you know, in this law, it is well explained who can establish a cooperative, which types of cooperatives, whether they are general or specialised, because cooperatives can establish 10 full-time citizens, where the law contains the procedures of these cooperatives, there are cooperative rules, there is a contract of cooperatives where the details are established, or where the obligations and rights of cooperatives are established, or the role of cooperatives in that cooperative, whether it is property, money, assets, machinery or devices. The cooperative shall be established for the purpose of obtaining a joint income, for the sake of easier enforcement, product placement, depending on the type and type of cooperative, easier and more favourable acquisition of basic funds. These cooperatives operate in the way the cooperative rules determine, i.e. the Cooperatives Act, where the details are specified and who the cooperatives are, the way cooperatives are acquired, the way cooperatives are stopped, the division of incomes in cooperatives, that is, the way in which they are lost if they are created because of their poor work in the cooperative. Especially what I would draw attention to is how to manage and manage cooperatives. So, the director of the cooperative and the chairman of the board of directors corresponds to all the funds for the losses resulting from the poor work in the community. It can't happen now that the state remembers that some property that exists in some society, whether they're agricultural or working cooperatives, or some other cooperatives, in the way that this cooperative works, can have founding roles, could also be memberships, when it comes to student cooperatives, but I'm talking about these cooperatives where the stakes are at stake. Transport cooperatives, in legal traffic, come forward on their own behalf and for their own account, one species, other species and for the account of cooperatives or on behalf of and for the account of cooperatives, which is the case of the commission's way of working. If the cooperative also employs its own account, then these are clear rules, the way cooperatives are managed, the way cooperatives are managed, income gains and increases, the way cooperatives are founded, and cooperatives are stopped. It is not possible to privatise cooperatives as a company in bankruptcy or bankruptcy in this way, if this is not respected in the existing rules. I would also point out in particular the impact of the obligation to review the report, i.e. the final accounts in cooperatives, i.e. the role of cooperative alliances, at the time of the Alliance of Yugoslavia, the Association of Serbia, etc. In practice, I know that in the last few years, these cooperatives have been working badly for poor management, for not applying regulations. Many employees in these cooperatives did not receive profits, salaries, did not quits, did not leave businesses, and these cooperatives did not pay PIO contributions and there was a major problem with a number of employees. There are also assets that could compensate for the losses caused by the poor working in cooperatives, i.e. the obligation to the State in terms of taxes and contributions. I don't see how it is now that the state remembers that this property, which can be acquired and how the law determines the establishment of cooperatives, the management of cooperatives, the way in which income is obtained, that is, in cooperatives, how it can be declared state property when it is already registered, because there are cooperative books with accurate data, the names of cooperatives with all the necessary data, and that is a particular form, prescribed, where all the necessary data are kept in a certain way. After all, after so many years, the type of these cooperatives is general, whether it is for agriculture, whether it is for livestock, beekeeping or some other cooperative of a special specialised type, the same reason, and it is not only agriculture, but we are talking about cooperatives, and if we have in mind the existing law, the way the work is set up, the way the property is acquired, the division of property, so it says, the acquisitions and the properties of the cooperatives and the inheritances, if the cooperative dies or ceases to exist for some other reason, then I don't see how this property suddenly, because someone in the state has decided to become state-owned, to exempt from those who have done so, I hope, in accordance with the Law that exists and did not regulate a series of obligations that are under the applicable regulations. I would draw attention when proposing these additions to the Law, not to see any logic as to whether it is possible to look at the existing Law and if its contents are known, I do not see a way to declare that property to be state-owned and to take away the cooperatives who founded this cooperative, in the way that the law provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25096	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word is made by the MP Zoran Cavic, and then by Aleksandar Vucic, and by Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a non-registered agricultural producer who in the last year handed over over two grain wagons and failed to achieve that subsidy from the Ministry, and some tycoons who ruled the Municipality of Pećinci, who reported hundreds of acres of land and took that subsidy without any control, I found it appropriate to say a few words about these cooperatives. I think the question of these cooperatives has been raised very late. In Srem, from Shid to Zemun, there was a cooperative in every village. These cooperatives were the backbones of agricultural production. Co-operation has been fostering new technology of production, supply of parts, mineral fertilisers and protective equipment. There were 15 cooperatives in the Municipality of Pećinci, so 15 villages we have, 15 cooperatives existed. They hired about a thousand workers. All those workers were sent home. So, for 15 thousand voters, how many municipalities there are, that's a large number of people who have remained in fact hungry, because, mostly, those people who worked by cooperatives are people who didn't even have a hectare of land, who could have returned to agricultural production. Also, the cooperative country is all sold out to tycoons such as Miodrag Kostic and Andrija Draskovic. All two cooperatives work in the municipality of Caves, but that's where people from the shadows got involved. Other cooperatives only exist formally. Why formally? So that's where the question of a social country opens up. This is where suspicious joint production contracts are made, and only individuals who are already mentioned above benefit from it. Who's doing the social land? At least with us, the brother of the Serb people's traitor, Andrija Draskovic. How do they get rich? Well, by beating up debts, it means they get rich in an easy way. I'd be smart if I had power. E, like this: The Chimanovci Agricultural Association remained in debt to MK Komertsu one amount of money, they gave the country 24 acres as a debt beating. The country's value was 24 thousand euros at the time. What was the municipal government doing, where are the Democrats in power, DS? They turned this land into industrial land last year, and now the country's hectare is no longer a thousand euros, but now its real value is 60,000 euros, or in a 1,440,000-euro translation. So you see how people get rich the easy way. I have to mention something else, which is why the Democrats did it. On one occasion, the Verica Radeta here said, "What did the President of the Cave Community get?" He received a business space at the centre of the Caves that is of high value, about 150-200 000 euros reportedly for 30,000 euros. But, no, it was only compensation for selling sugars received by MK Komerc and Miodrag Kostic for some three euros. Also, money from the sale of other land located on the territory of the municipality of Pecinci is used in this year to build a parallel road along the Belgrade-Shid highway, meaning there is a normal expansion of the industrial zone, a new industrial zone is being created where municipal officials will put a certain amount of money in their pocket again. Also, I have to say for other places in the Municipality of Pećinci – they remain in misery and mud and no one looks at employment, no one looks, no one takes care of other people who are in a difficult financial situation. I have to mention this agency, too, so the minister mentioned an agency that will take care of the availability and preservation of social property. It's just a clear farce, it's known in advance who's going to own that land that's social. And one more thing, a colleague here mentioned loans. It's not true that anyone can get a farm loan with proper documentation. Only political listeners can get that. So that's a typical example of my community. How did they manage to preserve the municipal government when we had 16 councilmen on one side and they on 14. They did it. They prepared the documentation and made a business plan, the municipality paid for the business plan and several councilors received favourable agricultural loans. Although I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I am present on every Committee on Agriculture and I have had the opportunity to listen to the presentations of the Committee President, Dr Zoran Mašić, who asked the minister to give an insight into who got the loan for agriculture. Since I already know who in the Municipality of Pećinci got the loans, but it's just non-intentional consumption, so no one invested in agriculture. They invested in cafes, cars and exits. So to check it out once, see who can get it, who can't get it. That's the only way we can move forward. What I haven't said yet about this land in the Municipality of Caves. Coupino, which is flooded, there's a lot of social land flooded, no one's taking care of that land. I have to say, the Coupino Agricultural Association lies on one great fortune, these days a tycoon has taken it, it's about thermal water. That thermal water can be used, and he's taken for some small money that land and, of course, he'll sell it for big money in a short time. And is this government going to do something? I doubt it!
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25098	Thank you, Mr. Cavic. Two more registered speakers: Aleksandar Vucic, and Zoran Mašić. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, mostly the SRS, and these radicals going to Lapovo to fill the halls, to be a successful promotion of the book of Vojislav Seselj, and to the other gentlemen and ladies, to the MPs, there are five other than radicals, too, with respect. I want to continue what I've been saying, and what has nothing to do with these yellow thieves, but what does it matter... Yeah, yeah, I'm saying it has nothing to do with these yellow thieves, but it has to do with what I was saying about the development of our economy. So, as one of the key problems of ours, and with regard to what Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said this morning, it is clear that no country in Eastern and Central Europe in transition has solved the problem of unemployment solely by selling businesses, but, above all, by establishing new ones. However, as the risk of investment in Serbia is high, of course, it is unrealistic to expect that the unemployment rate of around 15%, even 17, will begin to decrease. The solution lies, of course, in addition to the mentioned reduction in corruption, and in the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have talked about many times today. The problem is that Serbia does not have any concept of development policy, i.e. there are no common economic strategies at the level of the state union, and in the Republic of Serbia itself. Today we heard that we ourselves do not know what the strategy of the Republic of Serbia is, except that Serbia is on a 'good path' and that they are negotiating something, and what with the fundamental development of Serbia has nothing to do with it. The biggest problem is so-called. structural unemployment, as well as the duration of unemployment, as 70% of unemployed are long-term unemployed. With this neoliberal concept of future development of employment studies and studies on poverty, made by the IMF and the World Bank, and something similar to those of the Serbian government, it will also not solve the problem, as it is in the interest of the international financial oligarchy to increase the productivity of the increasingly cheap workforce, which is maintaining the existing level of unemployment or its increase and how they allow. Also, after 2000, a methodology for calculating the unemployment of the World Bank and the IMF was introduced, whereby, if the individual worked only one hour a week, he would not be included in the number of unemployed, which is almost amazing, instead of going to work hours. In addition to all the problems we have, especially in agriculture and in how and how small and medium-sized enterprises should be developed in the areas of agriculture, furniture, confectionery, primarily in the lower stages of processing, because cheap labour without connecting and creating small and medium-sized enterprises of the higher stages of processing, i.e. by doing so only declared one is the only continent of the national production system. If this keeps up, we won't get anywhere. Interestingly, too, it is not good that it is not a minister here, that small and medium-sized enterprises in the service sector are encouraged only in a slow and tourism domain, which, of course, should be particularly insisted in Belgrade, but also in other centres, while construction, like ours, and in the previous period before 2000, the extremely pro-pulsive branch should not be encouraged either by foreign or domestic institutions. In addition, taking into account all the things I was saying earlier about agricultural production, about cooperativery, about the robbery of social property, about the robbery of state property that is happening to us daily, about how we have the essential stimulation of imports and the promotion of the growth of the external trade deficit, Serbia cannot be on the right track and cannot move forward. Such laws, as they are passed, say in private that the government of the Republic of Serbia without a strategy is working to fill the holes, to solve the current problems it faces. It's like when you're driving down the road and you have ten big holes, but you come across one small one, and those ten big ones were visible to you – let's fix this little one tomorrow morning: we'll put some asphalt, some concrete, no matter which material, just so that this hole is patched up along the way, and these other ones we managed to avoid, we haven't even seen, and we don't even care what the whole trip is going to go down, which is going to go away and that's going to take a lot more money to reconstitute. That's how our country behaves today, in the same way. There's no vision, there's nothing serious anyone can see. The only thing in the country is, I'm sure you've noticed, when we're gonna arrest someone, when we're gonna deliver someone, because that's when everything's gonna bloom. Guys, you arrested Slobodan Milosevic against law, drove him to The Hague, and what was better for us than that?- I'm sorry. How many people have you arrested against the law and what was better for us than that? Just economically, not to talk about politics, not to talk about morality, not to talk about law, not to talk about criminal acts for one country, talk about only the economic aspect – what did Serbia get for it? What do you insist on, that we use this logic, how much did the citizens of Serbia get money in their pockets for? They didn't get anything! They received an extension of survival in the authorities of those involved. You see, what we've brought to today is certain media, state and private, that they regret that some Serbs, some kind of Miskovic, and I don't know who else, whatever they are, I don't think at all of them well or bad, I don't care, but the biggest problem is that maybe Serbs could buy Mercator. They say – what will Serbs have a complete monopoly in the store?- I'm sorry. You know why? They like it to be Slovenian. They go to Mercator while it's Slovenian, and if it became Serbian, then they would no longer have "fens" to go there. Look what we've done to the state. Look what we've managed to do. I don't blame you, I blame all of us who do this job and we should all be ashamed of it, absolutely all of us. That Sredoje Mihajlov, that Rafailovic, that anyone is, I will say that he is better than that Bavčar. Even if he has that capital to pay for it. Not because I prefer a Serb more than a Slovenian, it is more expensive, not only because of that, but because you are expanding in the region in such a way, you get huge markets for your products and thus encourage and trade and production, you have huge financial resources that blend into your resources, not to talk from taxes and all other fiscal taxes. No, they're going to the hunt and they say it can't be Serbian. Please remain Slovenian at all costs! This is what we have in Serbia today, and this is what we talk about cooperatives. Let's do it in the fastest possible way to rob property, but since it didn't work out under our control, that robbery, under the control of the people of the Serbian government, now we're going to control it. We have our agency, we control everything through our agency. That's exactly where we determine how and how, how and how we can allow, who we allow to do what we do to participate in privatisation and make it absolutely under our cap. We're the only ones with a law like this. The minister doesn't care, he's here to read two lines of reasoning, he's left the debate, he's got better things to do?- I'm sorry. The bug asked to replace him, since he's got better things to do?- I'm sorry. Is there a minister to tell us what he is doing better than to appear before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what do they have more important to do, what is more important today? Let's have this one say one went to Romania, but what are these others doing? I see that one oversaw where he lives, that Parivodić! He's well-supervised!- I'm sorry. That's nice, too, you've been walling, but come to the National Assembly sometime, talk to the MPs a little bit. They don't care about that. We have had various pressures to collapse and destroy our economy and this process continues. Those who don't understand it have a big problem, because this story about how we have to do all of this and destroy all our capacities, especially all of our development prospects in agriculture, goes to the guideline of those who say – yes, we want the enlargement of the European Union, but it's because of us. No, they're asking for it because of themselves, because of the economy, because of the new markets, because of the cheap labour force, because of the cheap raw materials. Some interests may have Serbia as well. Sometimes, yes, sometimes not, but I do have to ask why we have to listen blindly about everything. I guess we should be handling our interests, first of all. We must take care of Serbia's interests and the interests of our people. I'd like to ask you not to put these proposals on the agenda in the future. To bring us once the law that you're about to tell us about – now we've solved a sphere of social life completely, we're satisfied with how we solved it, not to let us, as you say today: these are one or two members in the law and we're later on, and the real law we're going to bring in a year, two or three, and then we're going to solve that problem. Let's solve this seriously, all the problems, that we don't have any more so-called. secondary legislation. We have many essential laws proposed by the opposition, proposed by the SRS, which are in the process, which you do not put on the agenda. Let me remind you, these are: the law on amendments and amendments to laws and privatisation, planning and construction, and many others you won't discuss. Once again, to remind these, I am sorry that my boss, Toma Nikolic, could not see this poster that I was taking out earlier, which was glued against us. (President: Please show him later. Not now, please. I remind you of the piracy. I have to now. I figure there's a lot of Serbian citizens who haven't seen it. (The People's MP Alexander Vukic shows the poster. ) It looks like "yellows", Boris Tadic signed. It is good for Serbian citizens to see what they are dealing with, what people's money is spent on, who are getting from citizens of Serbia in the National Assembly, and they are not here to discuss any law, to discuss anything. Let them get ready, let them go to high ground, let them run as much as possible, because when Mirko chases them, it's hard for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25100	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The parties earn from different sources of income and spend it in the ways in which they themselves choose, and the electoral lists receive money in the Assembly and decide how they will spend it. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join the opinions presented here today, that this bill, with these amendments that we are discussing today, should have been brought long ago, because it certainly would have contributed significantly to the development of agricultural production, first of all. However, because of all the troubles that our country has experienced, many agricultural combinations have collapsed, and many agricultural cooperatives have certainly collapsed and failed. And certainly the blackest, precisely because of the incomplete legislative regulation, most of these cooperatives, which had social property, either went into bankruptcy or the settlement of claims or bought by certain people who had money, bought cooperative and social or state property and land, real estate and all assets. It is good that today, that is, in the day of the vote, I assume that amendments to this law will be made and that this few more cooperatives that exist in Serbia will be preserved. at least that social capital that will be preserved from the destruction, sale or settlement of those who demand these cooperatives. Just looking at this problem, I'm going to base myself in my debate on agriculture and agricultural cooperatives, because I think they're the most significant ones and I'm undermining again that they're the most collapsed ones. Looking at the problem, the Committee on Agriculture on several occasions had both a debate and a boost, giving warnings to the Serbian government, the agriculture ministry to take more concrete steps precisely in the adoption of a new law in the area of agricultural co-operation. With that in the middle of last year, we had a debate in a proposal for a law on agricultural cooperatives that formed the Association of Serbia. At the previous session of the Committee on Agriculture, the unanimous conclusion of the Assembly Committee was with the Government's request and the Ministry of Agriculture to urgently draft legislation on agricultural cooperatives, then, the law on agricultural land, because it is also very important for the preservation of state and social land that is in cooperatives and agricultural combinations and, third law, the food safety law, which is also important in the aspect of preserving the health of our citizens, but also from the aspect of exporting animal products to the world market. Unfortunately, none of this has been done yet. None of these laws entered the procedure, and by the way, I say that this long-term strategy of agriculture development, which we talked about today and which was mentioned, and it was discussed two and a half years ago, was adopted a year and a few days ago, and it is this long-term strategy that is at the top of the lawmaking priority of these laws that I mentioned, and that, by today, they have not entered the procedure, which certainly has unspeakable impacts primarily on the area of agricultural production and the protection of state land. That is why today, counting on all the MPs present, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to support me in the request, I refer again to the Government and the Resistant Ministry of Agriculture to make every effort to bring the public debate and all the other procedures to an end and release these laws into the procedure and bring them to this national parliament. These changes give certain definitions that everything that is the social property of cooperatives, that it cannot be alienated without the consent of the Privatisation Agency, so, among other things, it stands for long-term lease. It is a bit strange to suggest that this, too, is not allowed to rent in the long term, and above all agricultural land, because it is precisely the law on agricultural land, which is being prepared, that the state land is now being leased to agricultural producers in the long term, and only in this way can the right way be fertilized, and the one who rents it can count on it to be used for many years, to work and invest in it. So I think that what you're proposing here is not good and, unfortunately, I haven't intervened with the amendment that this doesn't stand, that it's better for me to let the agricultural cooperative and those who run that agricultural cooperative put in a long-term lease on some land than to have it left unprocessed or healed in parloga. I am again counting on the agricultural land law to regulate this in the right way, including that area of cooperativeism. the property of agricultural cooperatives that will be better regulated. The recovery of our agricultural production is possible only by restoring and revitalising agricultural cooperatives or by creating new associations and associations of agricultural producers that will take care of this production as well as the placement and sale. So it is clear that the developed countries of Western Europe and America invest in the area of agricultural production, they subsidize primarily by a hectare of arable land. At this stage of transition, our country has defined itself as another model of incentives through lending, in fact, with the suspension of subsidies and non-recognition of any concern, above all, for producers in terms of sales and placement of their products, but we have entered the free market and are in fact given the possibility for each agricultural producer to find a market and place agricultural products in accordance with their capabilities and abilities. However, although it is in the process of developing a certain information system that needs farmers to be informed about the prices of these agricultural products on the world market, but most of our agricultural producers do not yet have personal computers, computers, no Internet access and access to information, and, ultimately, in the West, where the free market is and where they can be reported, there are very strong associations and associations of agricultural producers. Therefore, our country must also encourage the formation of such associations and associations in this regard. I underline again whether it will be in the form of new cooperatives, new cooperatives and cooperative relations or be in some other form, but only it will be guaranteed with even greater incentive measures, with even greater credit and subsidies per hectare of arable land when we arrive at that stage. We can improve our agriculture production, return it to the level that we once had and be a country that will offer much more agricultural products on the world market than it has been this year and these years, so I urge first and foremost the representatives of the Government to access more quickly and intensively those laws that are important and important to our country, not looking primarily at what Brussels, the European Economic Community and some other centres of political and economic power suggest. We should also look at our social and people's interests and that the Government and some of those laws that are important and important for certain areas, and now I'm talking about the area of agriculture, as soon as possible, let it go into procedure, and I sincerely hope that it will be soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-06-0.u25102	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? The minister used his right. Thank you. I'm completing a principled search and we're finishing today's work. As I announced, due to the importance of the laws on the agenda, I set Monday, for the continuation of the session by debate in detail on the 1st item of the agenda in, at 10.00 p.m. Thank you and a pleasant weekend to those who can rest.
