ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25772	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Radic Jokovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and END OF TELECOMMUNICATION LAW You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, want the Minister of Capital Investment? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25773	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have prepared a small addition to the Telecommunications Act, for a simple reason to adapt the law to what European laws require in the area of telecommunications, so that we can enable operators in Serbia to work more easily, that they do not have to go into restructuring their businesses and that they all have the same treatment. You know that in the area of telecommunications we must go in and prepare for the privatisation process, and we are preparing for it. You know the state can't be an operator in two systems and we can only be in one system because of the monopoly. I hope that these small changes in the law will be accepted and supported and that this will solve many of the problems that have been accumulated for years in the area of telecommunications and adapt to European laws, because we are in a unique system of telecommunications across Europe. I hope you will support this and we will simply get a complete law that will allow us to work significantly faster and more efficiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25774	Does one of the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We will wait until the lists are delivered, with a series of MPs, for discussion in principle. Until others deliver the lists, there is the word of the messenger of the people, Milka Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25775	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, we have before us a law very professional, but widely known for the theme that has been being treated in our society lately. The telecommunications technique, in the broadest sense, is one of the most perfect networks in the world, but the thing is that this network is changing very quickly. The technology in this area is going seven miles, and that means the period is very short. The period of change in technology was four years, then two, and now even shorter, and that means that the legislation in this area must change quickly and adapt to technology. For this reason, I cite the example of Croatia. In 2003, after adoption, she made four more amendments to this law, harmonising legislation with technology to make the market more liberalised. And that is to bring the current law into line with the directives and regulations of other EU countries. Both the EU and itself are making changes. That's what I'm gonna talk about. Normally, conditions are created for the liberalisation of the market, information and communication services and equipment, with appropriate harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legal assets and with the existence of a strategy for the development of telecommunications, as well as a strategy for the development of information technology. These changes are proposed in accordance with the practice and regulation of the EU and the countries of the region, as well as with regulations governing the legal position of companies and accounting in the Republic of Serbia. The amendments and additions of the Telecommunications Act, as an emergency procedure, provide that the exploitation of different public telecommunications networks, i.e. the provision of different services, can be done through branches educated in accordance with the Business Society Act, with the obligation to conduct separate accounts, expenditure and revenues, and in accordance with accounting and audit regulations, while assets and liabilities, revenues and expenditures are displayed in financial reports at the level of the legal person. The regulation of EU countries does not contain the obligation to establish specific legal entities and does not make the difference between certain networks of the provision of telecommunications services. All networks, fixed, mobile, cable and others, regardless of the technology applied, have a unique treatment of the commutation network. The current trends are the unification, or convergence of networks, which is also manifested on the organisational plan. In accordance with the above, there is no justification for the application of the provisions of the laws under which operators who possess or intend to hold more permits for different public telecommunications networks, i.e. to provide different public telecommunications services, so that they can do so through separate legal entities, is Article 34 of the existing law. Article 56(3) already knows in the applicable text of the law the possibility of working through organisational parts and the obligation to keep specific records of costs according to accounting and audit regulations, of keeping records of expenditures, revenue by species, places and bearers of costs. The proposed amendments to the provisions of Article 34(4) and Article 56(3) shall be mutually aligned. The establishment of specific accounting records prevents the spillover of business results from one part to another, especially a company does not in itself mean protection from subsidising and moving financial resources to other enterprises. The provisions of Article 1 of the Law propose the possibility of carrying out telecommunications activities through company branches. The provision of Article 2 of the Law has carried out the terminology of compliance with the Business Society Act, stating that transactions can be carried out through restrictions that do not have legal personality, instead of indicating parts of the single enterprise. The provisions of Article 3 of the Law have carried out the alignment of the text in accordance with the amendments to Article 34(4). Telecommunications operators are obliged to set up mobile telephony operations in a separate related company by August next year. The Telecommunications Act prescribes a stated obligation that represents anachronism in relation to the ruling practice of other countries, as well as the current direction of technological development and the positive regulation of the EU in the surrounding countries. In January, I was in Canada, and I witnessed an absolutely one process similar to what is happening now. These are trends in the world, and I will list them, and in the light of the law, you are also given what trends are in Europe as well. It is known that one of the leading operators in Europe, Telecom Italy, has joined Telecom Italy mobile and has been operating as a single legal entity since the middle of this year. Similar examples are found in Sweden, Norway, where a common national operator exists throughout the country. You know, stationary telephony is eventually becoming a social category, and it's absolutely normal, since mobile telephony had the full support of stationary telephony in its development, and it's a lot of pressure on stationary telephony capacities, that during a certain period of time these two continents are together for economic reasons. Germany's telecom, after forming several daughters' companies, is now planning to transform itself into a single company, France Telekom performed a requisition of an isolated mobile operator. Similar things happen with the British company. It now opens up the possibility that, for example, The British telecom can re-acquire some mobile phones. The EU Regulation does not know the obligation to single out a specific company for the exploitation of different types of communications networks and services. It is sufficient for the operator to form a continent within its organisation, which will have special accounting on costs and revenues per species, places and bearers of costs in accordance with national legislation, while assets and liabilities and revenues and expenditures in financial reports are displayed at the level of the legal person. The law of Croatia and Slovenia now, and before harmonisation with the EU's legal order, also solves these issues. Legal entities shall be left with the freedom to organise operations without legal coercion, within the same legal entity or as special entities, if that corresponds to their business strategy. These processes, I said, are conditioned by the development of technologies, which are increasingly conventional. Soon, on the basis of the Internet protocol, it will be unique for a fixed and mobile network, so there will be no difference between the telephone stations used by these two networks anymore. The world's leading telecommunications experts predict that this trend will continue even faster in the future. The rapid development of new generation networks in the near future will replace existing network structures and fully integrate fixed and mobile networks into a single network, which will provide users with diverse broadband services. In this respect, many telecommunications operators, which have so far been exclusively in fixed-net services or exclusively in the mobile network, are launching the purchase of equipment to round up their technological process and their portfolio services, regardless of the means of transmission, type of access network and terminal equipment. The EU does not distinguish between the different technologies applied to individual networks and fixed, mobile, cable, internet services in 2002, and gives everyone the same treatment of the communications network and services. Obligations and responsibilities are equal for all operators, regardless of whether they exploit wireless, cable or network based on any other technology. Decisions in the law will have an impact on telecommunications operators. Telecommunication operators will be able, without legal coercion, to organise operations within the limits, as provided for by the Company Act or by dependent companies, depending on the specificities, needs and size of operators. Amendments and additions to the law provide conditions for compliance with other countries' practices, in which the process of unifying telecommunications networks and services within the same legal entity has largely moved away. The development of telecommunications technology in the world has led to the integration of fixed and mobile networks into a single network. This avoids costs and complex procedures that are necessarily followed by the process of separation, without associated organisational continents, especially in the form of duplication of administration, organs and decision-making efficiency. Accordingly, the proposed solution would allow telecommunications operators to coordinate their business with world practice and improve efficiency. The law will have positive effects and consequences that justify law-making, given technological trends. These trends in the telecommunications services market refer to conventional technology, i.e. integration of different species. Telecommunication operators, which provide these different services, will be able to start purchasing the latest equipment and avoid unnecessary capacity duplication. The proposed legislative solutions allow telecommunications operators, which provide diverse telecommunications services through different types, faster development of conventional telecommunications technology. This makes telecommunications market recognizable to foreign investors, which is likely to result in more efficient competition. The G17 plus party will support this bill. It is the law of a technical nature and I appeal to all parties to be unique in deciding on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25776	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vucic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government used us to draft laws by emergency procedure, and for this law, because of what it says in the initial text, we didn't have to go to an emergency procedure, we could wait for a regular procedure, and I'll explain to you in the shortest possible way why, despite what some have said, and what might be an advantage somewhere, when you can see on the back of a company that it deals with fixed telephony, mobile phone, Internet, cable network, what you say is everywhere in the world. It's not everywhere, but in most countries it is. According to the reasons set out for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act after an emergency procedure, it is said in the light of the proposal that the amendment of Article 34(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be made. The Telecommunications Act is being carried out because a telecommunications operator must by the end of August of the current year, and not the following year, as it says in the reasons of the argument, it is another technical error, I suppose, is a technical mistake, to separate the business of mobile telephony, is meant by 064 and 065, in a separate related company. Given that the deadline for mobile telephony is 064 and 065 in a separate company at the end of August of this year, there is no reason for this change and supplement to be carried out in an emergency procedure, but this can be done in a regular procedure. The amendment and addition of Article 34 of the Telecommunications Act places new telecommunications operators in the position of the 5th said member in relation to the existing public telecommunications operator, TelecomSerbia. This is contrary to the provision of Article 3(1) of the Telecommunications Act, which provides for the promotion of competitiveness, economics and efficiency in the exercise of activity in the field of telecommunications. The new operators will be: 1) Public firm Elektroprivreda Srbija, which has completed the construction of an international and inter-monetary network for large capacity transmission systems by optical fibers installed in power lines, 2) Serbia's public company, which installs optical cables alongside pipelines, 3) Belgrade's public railway-transport company, which will build and lay optical cables next to the railway line. Furthermore, the development of information and communication technologies is very fast, the time of change is, as you know, getting shorter and shorter. A small number of individuals, but literally individuals in the world know what is going on in the technological development of information and communication technologies. The provisions of the Telecommunications Act must therefore enable the application of different technologies and techniques in the area of telecommunications. The question arises whether this is an appropriate name today, because tomorrow will certainly not be. However, from the technological point of view of use, there is a unique technical world system, which is a telecommunications network for speech and data transmission. This network is built of different technologies and techniques and is all connected to a unique technical system, consisting of 1) analogue and digital transmission of signals, 2) fixed and mobile networks, 3) cables with copper and optical conductors, 4) oriented and undirected earth radio, 5) satellite connections, 6) telephone power plants with channel communication, analoguely in different technologies and techniques, and digital of course, 7) central with communication of data transfer packages, images, speeches, with narrow and wide range of transmissions. Of course I wouldn't brag, I'm not the one who knows all this and who knows all this, I'm just reading what the SRS expert team put together on this bill. Also, the fact is that in our fixed phone network today there are still Crosbar telephone stations built at the end of the 1950s, the Metaconta headquarters, built in the 1970s, then cables with copper wires built before World War II. It's a similar situation in the world, and it all works as a unique world telecommunications network. The third reason why it would not be good to make such changes and additions; so far income has been mainly achieved in telecommunications since the 1990s, while low income has been achieved since the 1990s. The stormy development of information and communication technologies began in the 1970s and peaked after the 1990s. It has been enabled to switch to the technology and technology of data communication in packages, which has contributed most to the construction and mass use of the global Internet network. This created the conditions for changing the role of speech and data transmission in the future in terms of revenue. As a whole, the main revenue will be generated from data transmission, so the transfer of images, multimedia services and the like, and small revenues will be generated from the transfer of speech. All of this will be affected by the transmission of data by power lines. In Article 4. The Telecommunications Act is the meaning of the terms used in the law. There is a public telecommunications network and a public telecommunications service, but there is no communication network, item 1 of the reason for law-making, communication network, attitude 3 and other reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. There must be unambiguousness in the explanation, and unequal terms such as the commutation network cannot be used, because the commutation network does not exist. In the view of the 4th reason for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act under emergency procedure, it is argued that soon, on the basis of the use of the Internet protocol, there will be no difference between the telephone centres used for fixed and mobile networks. Now there's no difference in the technology of fixed and mobile phone power plants. With the development of digital power plants, all of the world's leading firms as producers have declared the production of speech and data transmission plants through channel commutation. The termology's got the term "phone control" out of it. All the above shows also a partial lack of knowledge of telecommunications areas by writers of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act. For exceptional reasons, the proposed amendment and addition of Articles 4 to 34 of the Telecommunications Act should be deleted. Greater changes and additions of existing laws or a new law should be made, as it cannot be changed to a greater extent, and some provisions are harmful and their application will have disastrous consequences for further development in the area of telecommunications in the Republic of Serbia. To make sure of this, we propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to organise, as well as to the National Assembly, a public debate on Serbian telecommunications, and we, as you can see, would send the biggest experts from this area, who could point to problems in solving these problems in the future. To date, the government has not selected a consultant to develop a privatisation and development strategy, although the tender was launched in May 2005. Whether it's for the sake of selling the company "Mobtel" or privatising the entire telecommunications sector, this is how an informal emergency has been declared because without a public tender, it elects a consultant to privatise the telecommunications sector. I've prepared some more of the materials that are partly related to the topic we're talking about, but of course I'll say a few more things. In the area of telecommunications, Serbia will have to present itself on the regional market and be incomparably stronger than it was today, and in this sense you will not have a problem with the SRS if our biggest telecommunications operator wants to participate. On the contrary, we will welcome this in the tenders for mobile telephony, whether in Republika Srpska or in some other parts of the former Yugoslavia, because this would also be significant for our country, for the Republic of Serbia, but at the same time we would ask you to pay attention to the behaviour in certain public enterprises. I've brought only some examples here of what to do in the recently mentioned oil industry of Serbia. For example, here's a contract on the work, it's interesting for the minister, for the representatives of the National Assembly, but also for the members of the government. The Serbian oil industry sign contracts, whether in 2004, whether it is in 2005, it is within the work of this government of the Republic of Serbia, with people in a regular working relationship, signing labour contracts, believe it or not. I've heard a lot of things, but I haven't heard of anything like that. It's about Stevan Pevec, from DS, the man who signed the contract on work with NIS, with everything, you see, signatures, stamps, etc. The man is in a constant working relationship, not to say at all what it is, 70 or I don't know how many thousands, etc., is not small. I watch every day in the paper, which is, the third day in the paper, in Blica says-- the Radicals are tired of the federal register. Now let's hear the people why this is interesting, and it'll be interesting to you, Mr. Chairman, too. He says 30 members of the SRS took a million dinars in a year on the parliamentary groups, which comes to him about 20 euros a month. So 20 euros a month, so if they don't have the right to do it, and 20 euros are getting sick of the federal register or not. Now you laugh, and praise those who have made this country miserable for five, ten, 15 and 20 million euros, and not by the law to get what they belong to. And then laugh. That's why I'm talking about the telecommunications network, because we have Ratel here, which also controls DS, as you know, has majority control, and that's why they're going to choose what's going to happen and what we're going to be able to watch over TV screens and all the other ways that it's going to look. I also see it by the proposed, or what is said who will be members of the boards of directors, and when I hear Slava Đukić, my skin gets chilly, and some other names. These are your feathers, because you think October 5th is still going on and you can act like one. I have some other contracts here, some more data, so let's say in the import of a million tonnes of crude oil, the Cyprus company "Mobile Oil", the owners of Dimitria Vukcevic and Goran Novakovic. Listen now, please, NIS takes a 65 million loan and pays for it, of course. Novi Sad, police for business crime, enters the New Sad Refinery and determines the involvement of NIS and DOS leadership in crime, Srdjan Mihajlovic, deputy Zeljko Popovica is a member, which parties, DS. You know, people, I see. Otherwise, the personal frame and choice of Boris Tadic. It's the same one they've chosen as defence minister in time, and you've seen Pejakovic say that in front of a special court, that it has appeared somewhere but no one can comment anymore and the newspaper won't comment. But I guess that's why they're gonna convince me that I wanted to kill my own mother or I don't know what. You know, anything in this country is possible. Well, he didn't, did he? They say it was for personal use, and it wasn't... Next, we have people who say they spend government money very carefully. In 2004, for example, in just 10 months, you know how much NIS has spent on advertising alone: 100 million. I understand people need NIS to help, they need to help with five and ten, and maybe twenty, but you're exaggerating people; so for the next year 853 million were projected, so they were small, so they spent a billion and 75 million. And you know how they make contracts? The way a kid plays football or basketball, that's how they get you, and then they pay back some of the money to the ones they gave, it's for money laundering, it's for kidnapping from the state, whatever you want, the way you want. There's one from G17, Milos Tomic. He said he had little time to be president of the UO NIS, but he also wanted KK NIS Vojvodina to function as president, so he was prevented by Milisav Djurica, also involved in everything and everything along with them. What are you going to do? There's money for both Kurt and Murta, but only when people's money is spent, in every way possible. I also have a record here on the public opening of bids at the fourth session of the Commission for the procurement of consulting services to the privatisation adviser for the telecommunications sector. That'll make Moma Markovic more detailed, and you might want to explain it to us, but it's not this topic right now, what happened to those VIP salons at the airport. Is it true that now that they're traveling that it's privatized there and that now they have to pay the private, now we've lost sight of ourselves, I've been waiting for Tom and Todorovic at the airport, and they say, this is no longer a state, but now you have to pay the privateer the acid water you drink, which is given by one five million times less than what it cost the renovation. What happened to those thieves who participated in those 60,000 dinar ficuses, that blue marble, which, by the way, I have to admit, I was there, I don't even like it, and I hear it's terribly expensive. I hear it's scary expensive. I don't know who that means. It could've been something. It could've been something. It could've been just plain tiles. And let me ask, who was ultimately responsible for this, the spoons were 650 dinars. And we haven't established yet, Mr. Chairman, it has to do with telecommunications. They passed on to us for days and weeks as the most beautiful thing in Serbia was done through all the telecommunications networks, telephones, such and such on October 5th, and we still haven't found how many images were robbed and how many have not yet been found. The value of these images is several million euros, so it would be good if the Serbian Parliament, and I will refer the parliamentary question, received information on how much it cost us in the pictures. We don't want to talk about bricks, about everything else, how much it cost Serbian citizens in pictures. Not to talk about burned RTS and everything else, but just to see how many paintings were robbed and ask honest finders, participants of the most beautiful revolution in Serbia, to return it. It doesn't make sense. They'll never be able to sell. They better get it back to some congregation, better get it back to the state of Serbia, that people can look at it and enjoy it, and they can hold it in the basements, make it look like they're not thieves, but like they're a lot of honest people who did some good work that day, it's pointless. I call on you, too, that in everything that will happen in the future you are not giving, and that is where I warn the Serbian government, I warn them, and because of them, and not because of us, we have been the opposition for six years. You guys watch what you're gonna do, 'cause everything they can control is yellow, and that control's gonna keep going. They'll take everything from you. For one thing, Dinkic, who I think is all the worst, is hardly there's someone I think is worse than him, for one thing he was right about when he said what you're going to do is build a tenm-euro building of people's couples, what's the name of that yellow one, that Milosavljevic. There's a lot in this country. Everything comes to mind, but that's what you've allowed. Look, you know how much distribution there can be in this sphere of social life. I think you should take a lot more care of that. I'm counting on someone to explain to us for all these corrupt affairs, and for these world wonders, for a work contract with a man in constant labor, how it's possible, in accordance with which law it is, and if anyone in any other place has ever been able to do that. It's simple, at least after those democratic changes, after changing different laws, I mean by 2000, under certain conditions, and it was possible. Anyway, thank you for your patience. We prepared ourselves for this law professionally, and this was all after that my little addition, just to ask some questions about corruption and crime. It's not a waste, because we don't get answers from almost never the representatives of the government, so I'd like to ask you to get an answer to what happened to those who stole 18m euros from Belgrade Airport, making all those possible miracles, as the police specifically determined, and I didn't hear anything special happen afterwards. This is very important, because if after that we have affairs of Davinić, satellites, fake affairs, about Dragic or the affair around these or those, in a month nothing will talk about these and nothing in Serbia will ever happen, only one of those same criminals will buy a Kajmak, buy all the money, have them all over again, drive a few speedboats on the roads, because they are no longer cars that drive, and the people will choke in debt and live more and more difficult and poorer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25778	People's MP Rajko Baralic is not in the O.R., said MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25779	At first, I must conclude that at least 15 members of this assembly were involved in the adoption of the Telecommunications Act in 2003, and I see that the team in front of the ministry is partly the same. At that time, the SRS challenged this concept of the Telecommunications Act and, of course, for all our disputed arguments were found in the European orientation of the new law and 126 votes. At that time, we noted that the issue of competition and protection against the abuse of monopoly should be resolved in a different way, not at that time by the bill and indicated which problems would arise as early as 2005. Realistically, this problem that the government is trying to address today with this bill of amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act was essentially launched in 2005. Just for a reminder, that's the 109th. The Telecommunications Act. In the beginning, this Telecommunications Act had a problem and a special agency, which formally exists, I don't think it has yet come to terms with its work, and I don't think it has fulfilled its full competence, so it was on the European path in 2003, and now it's on the European path in 2006, and it's on the opposite principle of who can deal with this activity. Well, let's get in line. First and foremost, the mistake was made by Predrag Markovic. He should not have put this material in the agenda, to be precise, he should not have asked the MPs if they were to put this item in the emergency procedure. Why? Roman Five Reasons, Reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure, and there are approximately five paragraphs of text, but you do not have an invitation to Article 161 of our Rules of Procedure and you have no indication of the adverse consequences of the functioning of the state, the state authorities, possibly some adverse consequence could occur unless adopted by an urgent procedure of this amendment and supplement. Since this is not here, the President of the Assembly, Mr Markovic, was obliged to return this material to the promoter and say - if you are going through an emergency procedure, please give an explanation of the reasons within the meaning of Article 161 of our Rules of Procedure. He did not do it because he is in the coalition and does the same abuse with Minister Dinkic. It's just a formal legal extraction of this Ministry of Capital Investment. With this operation, this ministry does not have much of a touch point because behind this is Minister Dinkic. Smile for the G17 plus, but just so you know, Junior's behind this. Furthermore, I remind you, those 15 MPs who are already in the second session, here's something that's written in this explanation. He says this - Reasons for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, on page 2, the last paragraph - The EU Regulation does not know the obligation to single out a specific company for the exploitation of different types of communications networks and services. I don't know who's lying now, because in 2003 they told us that it was an EU standard, please, you weren't an MP, ma'am; in 2003, Mrs. Rasetta explained this law for three minutes and 17 seconds, as she was busy with the discotheque in Baja's garden and the VIP salon. She just walked through this assembly, three minutes and 17 seconds to explain this bill, sat down for half an hour and escaped as soon as possible, because the 126-seat expert team possessed an argument that it could prove that the European standard was precisely to evaporate, that not one company could do all kinds of telecommunications services, but that it had to evaporate. Now, by the logic of things, the minister changed, the ministry remained, the officials remained, the experts remained, now they're bringing us back to something that was then disputed and they say now the European standard is something else. Let's move on, he says, it's enough for an operator within its organisation to form a continent that will have special accounting on costs and revenues by species, places and costholders. Please, this isn't a bookkeeping regulation. If it were a bookkeeping regulation, Mladjan Dinkic would have suggested it. Let me tell you something, this regulation is not an accounting and accounting regulation, why the Ministry of Capital Investments informs us of accounting, we have in some proposal or draft one accounting law and this law cannot be put into practice, why Minister Dinkic does not offer that law. And there's a way to write down how the main book will be run, how it's going to be written, what it's going to be written. Why the Telecommunications Act to get into these bookkeeping things. It is probably a technical regulation in the area of telecommunications, but it's not a technical regulation in mathematics and computerization related to digitron for recording. Let's move on, it's said again, these are all contradictory attitudes compared to 2003, everything can be European, it just needs to be proposed. He will convince us that it was European then and now it is European, although it is both the opposite. On the next side, the third one, it said, says -- the EU in directives, which have been in place since 2002, does not make a difference between different technologies. So in 2002, the EU directive, not to make a difference in technologies, does not conclude that they should be connected or to be special people dealing with telecommunications. Who cheated on us, so he said the standard was that they had to be separated. The stretching of this democracy. What's not supposed to be in the explanation, and I don't know how the Balinian missed it. Please, argument, Roman two, reasons for law-making, second paragraph, and says this - according to the above, there is no excuse for applying the provisions of the law. How can the government say we don't want to apply the law? The National Assembly should be pictured when it adopts all government proposals and makes regulations. You see what the government is telling us - there's no valid reason to apply the law. Then how do we ask citizens to obey the law? Here, to be the whole of this act of acting or not applying the law: "In accordance with the above, there is no justification for the application of the provisions of the laws by which operators possessing or intending to possess more permits for different public telecommunications networks, or for providing different public telecommunications services, so that they can only do so through separate legal entities". So the government tells us -- we don't want to apply the law, it's not justified to apply the law. Democratic regulation, adopted in 2003, immediately after the end of the "Sabbe" action. The following point is set out in the explanation: "The establishment of special accounting records prevents the transfer of business results from one part to another". What would I legally rely on to make the company's total income, how would it settle costs, when there's another regulation that regulates accounting, recording and all these other things? Some other regulation regulates it. The spilling from one piece to the other, it's a unique legal face. We don't have the authority to watch parts of each other do business, whether they're in a symphony or they're being broken down. It's a matter of business policy. The one who controls the results of the business, he sees income forming, cost-settling, whether there are debts, whether the obligations to the state have been met. How the two sectors are going to co-sponsor each other, who's going to pass the costs to whom, that's not what we're interested in. Maybe a stranger is interested, if there's a deal, written or unwritten -- you take a fixed one, I take a cell phone, this one takes the Internet. Well, Zivkovic was thinking in 2003 about how he could take the internet within "Telecoma of Serbia", so one other beat him, I think Vesic, Mondo or someone else. Don't do that expertly, it hides everything and everything. You see, in three years, the standard has changed, Europe has changed, it's turned upside down. It's impossible for you not to follow the Continuity of DOS. You're the real representatives of the Continuity of DOS. All of you voted, both the DSS, and New Serbia and you from G17 plus, in the form of two MPs who were in that meeting, all voted in favour of the Telecommunications Act, as the first real European regulation on telecommunications, which prevents the abuse of monopoly, which encourages competition in the area of telecommunications. Let me remind you, and then we talked about Soros, and then, when he was elected minister, one minister also called Soros and his cable, and his willingness to quickly install his private fixed telephony in Serbia, and something with these criticisms was constantly changing. He goes on to say, "A special company does not in itself mean protection from subsidisation and from moving financial resources to other enterprises." I don't know why someone wrote it or why he wrote it like this. Then we come to a real topic. What you are proposing to change these three members, 34, 50 and some, and those later criminal provisions, is directly contrary to that member of the Telecommunications Act which gives a definition of the concepts used in the Telecommunications Act. It is contrary to the following terms: "public telecommunications operator", it is the one that provides public telecommunications services; with the term "public telecommunications services"; with the term "public telecommunications network" and especially with the two following terms "significant market share". To remind you, the fifteen you are in the O.R. is the share of a public telecommunications operator at the level of the prescribed percentage, and it is believed to be up to 20%; the total number of users up to 20%, possibly, with the agency's consent, can increase to 25%. I'm returning you to the 2003 discussion. That's when we said we had two mobile operators, both with exclusive rights, both with some licenses. By law, new licenses should be granted, everything is licensed and even granted approval. Take care, if you want to prevent the "Telecoma Serbia" and "Mobtela" monopoly, then use other means, use the rules on access to the network, access to services, service quality, price list and other means, where the state can use its powers to regulate it. But don't split, break into organizational parts, special legal entities, connected legal entities, because nothing gets done, it just changes form, and everything stays the same, in the sense of preserving someone's illicit monopoly and abuse of monopoly by someone. He was counting on you to be primitive and simple. We have to go to special companies, so there's no concentration of these services in one, two, or three companies. So it happened that someone picked up and worked frequencies before the Telecommunications Agency was formed. Now there's been trouble. How are they gonna get rid of it? It will be settled by proposing that we enter, past the Business Society Act, into what is called a branch of a company, and not now from the position of the branch's activity, but even from the position of the branch's material finance business, supposedly considering not moving capital from one branch to another, all within one legal person who has to operate through one current account. I don't understand if you're preparing some sales, some distribution, whether you're preparing some new licenses, some new permits. I must tell you, in this text I recognize the most young Dinkic. This could only be written by someone who is originally cranky for money, someone who gives Albianic 100 euros to go on a show to kick things all over, while it ends up at 10-15 million over its combinations. I don't know what Jocic's waiting for, why doesn't he arrest Young Dinkic? It's probably the first, convincing one on the arrest list. If you consider this change to cover up something that is under way, so you will allow someone to, in addition to charging the Nekerman packages, come into the situation to charge something else, and then to sell it to someone in the area of this type of telecommunications, then I draw attention to you that someone will call you for political persecution, with the right not to feed the arguments of someone who doesn't deserve it. If you've started some business to do, do it in accordance with the law, with regulations, don't promise much, because no one lives in Serbia today can guarantee who will be in a position to make your promises to abroad come true, so you don't pass as he allegedly sold, so now you're out of the country. You make sure that your arrangements don't disrupt you, and maybe even a flat-out election, so that those you promised, and then you wouldn't want me to be in your skin. And say hello to Jocic, let him arrest Dinkic as soon as possible, he'll be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25780	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25781	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that something was adopted for me in 2003 would be enough for me to vote contrary to what was adopted now, although these are not the reasons leading us to support the amendments and amendments to this law. Only small polemics; and the latest accounting records, as anyone experiences accounting, strive to provide the most efficient model in monitoring the costs, which is, monitoring the costs by place of production. Anyone who wants to deal with any business seriously and who wants to follow the costs and how they affect everything about business is always defined for this way of recording and monitoring costs. With regard to what this law offers, it's perfectly acceptable for me. I remind the honourable Members of the people that in this term we have adopted the Law on Postal Traffic, and the Law on Telecommunications in the preceding, and that we, both by law and by law, have given practical monopoly position to one system and another, by liberalising services in this area in 2007 to 2009, however, and by doing so, we have reduced the potential of a monopoly position to the extent that at that moment was tolerable, for some reasonable, for some however they understand it. I have reported here to take advantage of the presence of responsible people in this area and to point to another danger, we will vote for this, it is not disputed, which threatens one of the most important areas in this country, it is a unfair competition that Telekom can suffer over, as far as I'm concerned, illegal cable television providers and some others, who in this time, especially in the coming years, if you only send technological opportunities, can become unfair and unattainable competition for our Telekom and many others. I'm taking the opportunity, for the second or third time here, to point out that problem. It's hard to explain that several providers in cable television operate the way they do now, to deal with illegal affairs. Of course he's the most powerful of these SBBs, Soroshe's cable TV, which here has a status protected in every way, and since this ministry is responsible for the way. I warn you, and you all know it, yet the poet said, "If the wind was gone, the spiders would have crossed the sky. They networked the sky with cables from pillars to salters, to various other places, using installations or fixed electrical and telecom installations, without any compensation, without authority etc. It's about big financial resources. In addition, their existence completely interferes with the regular payment of television subscription, because the largest number of citizens, one of them, has some legal relationship with these cable providers, while at the same time paying for TV subscription. That's what I was talking about when the Law on TV subscription was, where, as you know, cable providers serve both the first, and second, third, while there is, the RTS programme, so it could be said that a large number of Serbian citizens, I think 50% of people in Serbia pay two basic public service services, and based on a contract they have with SBB or someone else, and by this second. I've come to this very well-intentioned. I know this exists as a problem, and I know that's what we're talking about. But there's not enough effective response. Either we have to tolerate SBB; if we have to let it be explained, I believe the government has the power to get into this and to resolve this to the end; or someone is doing something that is contrary to the law; or there is a law that I'm not informed of, which is not impossible. I'm one small folk MP who doesn't need to know all the laws and not know all the areas, but it's huge financial resources. Let me finish, get back to these changes and the additions to the law. Why is it that cable providers are a danger to me; because as far as tomorrow they become unfair competition to the most powerful firm in Serbia, it is a telecommunications sector, because telephoning over this network will be, well known by colleagues, they know what I'm talking about, and they know the people of the Ministry, whether they're practically free or very cheap, and they're inconspicuous for us. It is very important that we know this, that we recognize the problem at the very beginning and give it a proper state response. I know it's complicated, Soros has funded various NGOs in Serbia, he connects several organizations today, so-called "Sorosh". Civil society, obviously, has funded some election campaigns, partly or entirely, I understand that, but I want to warn you that the damage is unpredictable. It has grown to the point of threatening to completely destroy this second system, which is invaluable to the state, and by scale, and by dynamics, and by technological value, and by what should be tomorrow. At least the year when we said by law that there would be full liberalisation in the field of these services ready to recognize this problem and confront it in a way that corresponds to state and people's needs. Otherwise, it's going to drain huge funds, it's about millions of daily incomes. Fortunately, the phone makes money when we're sleeping. Kids play on cell phones, millions of messages go on a daily basis, so we don't talk about it. Of course, I especially want to say that the other thing, which was spoken of by distinguished colleague Milka Silaev, she said great. She also introduced us to a gold mine, if we don't discover it, and if I tell the mining dictionary, today we don't make a discovery, someone else will take it from us, and the state will have no use for it. There are also responsible officials in the area of telecommunications and postal traffic. There are ministers and representatives of the ministry, there are colleagues involved in this business, whose profession this is. It's important that we have a consensus on this, and it's important that we get an answer to the question of what's the point with cable providers, do they work under the law, if they work under what law they do, what do they pay? If they pay the concession because they use the sky, the pillars, the ether, I don't know what they're using. Now, as you know, wireless cable television is developing. So there's a whole series of very profitable jobs in this area. I'm interested in whether we're able to escort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25782	Here you go, Mr. Albianic, replica. The president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Milojub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25783	Well, there are modern communications, you can tell, is that what you're saying in the O.R. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krasic has chosen to call me in my absence here and it is true, Mr. Krasic, that they call me on television shows because I have something to say. The other thing is you don't have, so they don't call you. What do I do? And I'm not as cheap as you said. But you have another kind of problem. You don't know what to do and then you come here to the Assembly Hall. You didn't understand this time and how the government of the Republic of Serbia works, but here you change alternately like a broken record. I'll explain to you that in the meantime, technique has changed and there are many modern ways to do it, and a broken record is going down over time. I told the Serbian public nicely that I would bring radicals to a decent level, because that's what you actually deserve. So, the people here in the O.R., and they're responding to you talking like this all day long about all sorts of nonsense, empty stories, demagogues. Why are you doing this? Well, I guess you're wrong that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing well. Here, and in the area of telecommunications. So do you know that the biggest project was made just this year a few weeks ago when an agreement was made with Austrians and the foundations of Moby 63, do you know what an investment venture is in Serbia? So the state has relieved the problem and will go for sale "Mobi 63", with an initial price of 800m euros. Over a billion euros will be won because there will be competitions for purchase. And that is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia says a billion euros for Serbia, what was stolen from the citizens, to return through the project to the state and to our people. You're not against it, are you? It's no use to you, the results become visible over time. As you can see, there's also a deal with corruption and crime. You can't stop these processes, you can't do anything with your empty story, because the government of Serbia is both reform and pro-European and making real moves, the moves our people have been waiting for, to finally bring justice here. And what's worth it to you, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't attack the young man in any way, but you've found me here to call, they're grinding people in the government, they can't hurt them. How can you not understand that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25784	MP Zoran Krasic. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25785	It's only now that I understand that they're paying you for nothing. So Labus and Dinkic have a failed investment, they pay for Miloljub Albianic for free when he goes on TV shows. Now, for the sake of the public, since there's not much to explain here, just to give some facts, there's no need to remember a lot or use a digitron. From this pay phone, the SRS called Goran Kljajevic. He stayed long to be President of the Trade Court thanks to G17 plus. He's been arrested recently. While we were calling Goran Kljajevic, something similar to what Albianic had just said, so he said then. From this phone booth, the SRS has been saying every speech for six months, "when are you going to arrest Bogoljub Karic?" Of course, again there was a dispute on this side where most of us are making up things, and when the process started, then all the same ones who were not happy were in this hallway, how they were going to take billions, and a billion and a half, etc. etc. Okay. Let me remind you something else. With this speaker, the SRS has been talking for months in the criticism of The Hague tribunal and what is being done there and has repeatedly been stressed - let us address the issue of that crime against our recruits in Slovenia. As you had the opportunity a few days ago, the public was also officially informed of something that had been hidden from the party for 14 years, at the time of Tito's generals, Kadjivic and those bulluments. And now, let me not remind you of any more details and some calls from this pay phone sent to the authorities. Here, let me just tell you something in advance, since there's obviously a history of unintelligence here. Hurry up and arrest Mladjan Dinkic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25786	It's personal. Here you go. It's a replica. However, please finish your replicas with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25787	Mr. Krasic had nothing to say, we'll finish the controversy very quickly. It is clear to all in Serbia's public that G17 plus has long struggled to remove Kljajevic from the post. Criminal charges, provokings, everything in our power from the party we've done to clear up this situation and to get the corrupt judges behind bars. As far as Bogoljub Karic is concerned, you can also see who set off the entire avalanche, starting with Astra Banka and beyond. You have a funny argument, Mr. Krassic. I don't know what your story comes down to. The story of this ruling majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concrete, practical, dealing with corruption and crime goes, the projects for this country are going, and you can't stop any fiction here, with demagogue stories. And now you can see how well it works. Whatever you're doing, it's not worth it. You didn't show in Serbia that you know how to do something. You didn't really suggest anything. Usually, the amendment reads, "It's deleted." So it's an empty story. There's no suggestion, you don't know what you could do. Therefore, it is clear and unequivocal not that this government will banish the mandate, but will restore it, you will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25788	National MP Krasic. And I ask you, indeed, to circle with this series of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25789	Mr. Albianic has this problem that he doesn't read the stenograms. If you read the stenograms, you might remember something. In the story of Goran Kljajevic, Miroljub Labus is inevitable. The first story about Goran Kljajevic was due to Sartide: who wrote off the debt, why the state took over the debt for Sartide and sold it for some small money to a partner brought by Miroljub Labus. Now let me remind you that this country has also been shaken by a sugar affair involving Miroljub Labus. And that I don't remind you anymore, since it's long known to the public. Tell Mr. Jocic it would be good if he arrested Mladjan Dinkic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25790	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25791	Just to clarify some things that are constantly being planted on us, and the truth is completely different. To remind ourselves in 2001, to remind ourselves of the decisions of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly, which was proposed by Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic as President of the Higher Trade Court, they unanimously agreed. But then Mr. Ceda Jovanovic agreed with the SRS and for the first time since 5 October, the SRS voted in favour of such a proposal to be the president of the Trade Court in Belgrade and the SRS, along with the lobbyists of Ceda Jovanovic in the DOS, voted Goran Kljajevic as President of the Trade Court. Don't talk to us. We were still against him then, when we came to this parliament we immediately said that he should be replaced. A month or two ago, Mladjan Dinkic spoke about the need to clear up the situation in the Trade Court and you are telling us that we are for Goran Kljajevic. You chose him, dear radicals, and don't lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25792	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25793	I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, what kind of stimuli are the individuals coming out for this pay phone? Indeed, it is a normal day, as far as I know, and it is not raining, nor is there any miracle, weather, but because of the public and for reminding you, first of all, of the MPs of the SRS, I must say that not only is it false and incredible nonsense what we have heard now from the previous speaker and from that pay phone before him, this colleague Albianic, I really cannot believe that something like this is happening. The SRS, Mr Ilic you know, is to remind you and to hear the entire Serbian public, not only did it not participate in any committee's work, when we were 23 here against 176 Doss MPs, who we broke, broke up, drove to the elections, alone against everyone, and we were the most bitter opponents of all personneling within the Serbian judiciary. I can't remember taking a stenogram back so many years, if Goran Kljajevic alone didn't call my petty ten thousand times a criminal, a man who was brought here to rob Serbian businesses, to bring them into bankruptcy, to dissuade the workers. Well, who knows how many disputes the Kragujevac economy had that problem couldn't solve at the level of the Kragujevac Trade Court, so people complained, and whom to complain to, the criminal Goran Kljajevic. You're telling us that we voted for something, we're the opposition here. Don't nod your head 'cause you should have something in your head for nod. When you're reading something and you're informing yourself one way or another, check if you're talking about something that happened in the period when you saw this building on the postcard, and then you came to be in it for a while, now you're going to go and you're never going to come back, so don't put out any lies, nonsense and idiotics. We were the only ones who fought against guys like you. Your members are next to Goran Kljajevic, and you want me to give you a name and by the testimony of the former President of the Court of Commerce, Mrs. Arežina, who wrote about it. Fire on October 5th with automatic rifles, seized documentation, your party president took part in the malversions around Sartide, around Knjaz Miloš, who knows what else will surface. You sit down until I finish the presentation, and then the chairman will give you his word. You will now speak to the SRS, who has fought most all these years against criminals such as Kljajevic and others. I'll have to bring all of you, but it's not free, the price has increased in the meantime, all the MPs of the failed DOS, all the DOS-manias are happy to buy from me all the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. I will bring you, colleague Albianić, because I truly regret that you know nothing, I will bring you one book for free, everyone else to buy at least two, to learn something, to see the criminal charges filed by the SRS against Kljajevic, against the rest of the criminal clan. You want to talk a little bit about the Brašnjevics, talk about Mikan and Milenko Brasnavic, we can talk about them. Here, and I know a lot about them that you don't know. Let me tell you who they were connected to, who recruited them, who they rocketed, what their company did. Don't come with us about crime and corruption, it's for you a field where you can't handle it, because you're alone, not personally, but individuals from your party up to their necks involved in crime and corruption, and you're talking to people who are just coming to power, and that's going to be very soon, to continue with a very determined fight. Because if you think that the SRS is just going to be so easy to get across the affair of the suitcase, via Jelasic, through the National Savings Bank and everything else, you can be sure that it won't be, that the bench will unwind and unwind, and then you'll be emptying the list from your head to stay with only the ones you knew, and those criminals will all get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25794	Break ten minutes. [[After break – 11.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. Before I give my word to Mr. Albianic, I want to warn you, and you, Mr. Krasic, will have the word after that, Momir Markovic is like the third. I would like to remind you, it is my duty, that under Article 104(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs of the people, are obliged to address one another with respect. No, you didn't break it, but those who broke it know, and I ask you to stick to that member of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25796	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'm not satisfied, Mr. Chairman, with your explanation. This is the only place Miss Jovanovic was insulted. It's a really bad way to get my favor. You're not gonna make it. You should know that such an insult doesn't make any sense. I'm a married man, I have two children, and you have to look for someone else's favor. I've told you nicely, I'm a man of lack of education, but not a lack of home education. So, first of all, you have to get the favor of someone from the teaching profession. It's important to point out. As I have, therefore, said nicely for you, when you come from a place, from a bus or a train station, and come to Serbia's parliament, it is not easy to manage in this environment. It needs to be dignified, it needs to build the reputation of an institution like this, and you can't do it and you can't. On the contrary, you do everything you can to reduce the reputation of this institution, to courte the language we speak to each other and to the citizens of Serbia. So you use the most offensive terms, but that's your problem. For this problem of yours, you must address certain professionals to resolve it. She saw both the public and the other day on a TV show that you're talking to, so now we're gonna see when she's gonna call you back on that TV show, because you're rude or rude. I can't take that shortfall away from you, nor am I a man who can solve your problems and frustrations. You're talking to professional people elsewhere. As far as speech is concerned, the type of drink-drinking, the quo-qua, it's done in Serbian custom for Christmas, where it's a nice custom, not in the assembly hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25797	They have the advantage, only if my colleagues, my duty is according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. They give in to you, and you have a line, and they have a line in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, but they're giving you a head start.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25798	Of course they're going to give me an advantage, Mr. Mihailovic, because they're nice and cultural people, and not like the previous pay phone, who says to herself that she's married and has two children, and home education, and I'm really worried about who's going to raise those kids, given the fact that one of the parents is like this. This rude and uninformed creature has never passed through this congregation door. Indeed, I have been a folk MP for more than 10 years, and not only for the public, Serbian, for the media, the MPs represented a phenomenon, as a phenomenon, and as someone who, first of all, with a mass of stupidity spoken both in his performances and in TV shows, does not understand much of what he's talking about. We had a chance to see yesterday and wonder if this person was even a member of a religious community or the nearest SPC, when he was talking about a very important law, and we had to send such messages from a place. I can't help it when people like that and people like that, who aren't from the house, and you know, at my house in Shumadia, they say that you're being rocked by a cradle, and that's how it starts, that's how that raises you. You, sir, since you're an alpha and omega in that organization of yours, G17, as it is already called, don't advise people, especially your colleagues and colleagues who have no experience of showing up anywhere, anywhere in any media space, and going, you know, what our people would say, with a bear solution. If you send ignorant people, people who don't know anything, or what happened two or three or five years ago absolutely identical to you, because you've skipped many lessons. You might know how to blow a balloon, you know, you showed it that day. There were, unfortunately, half a million people who have experienced in the worst possible way what you have done. So much for your education. You've shown that you have nothing Christian in you, you don't have a home education. Then how are you going to raise your children, let alone another, when you are on the day of one man, who was president of the state, with a shipment of over half a million people, and his coffin laid on a plateau outside the Federal Assembly, just 50 meters away from what you were doing with balloons and I don't know what other props. You should be ashamed of that. After that, you shouldn't have appeared at all, that you're gone, to hide in a mouse hole and say, yes, I am the one who did something that every normal man, every one who has anything human in him, not that you're going out and that you're talking about some sense of good behavior, or this and that. How do you come to the meetings of the National Assembly? The question needs to be asked... (President: Time.) How are you coming? Are you a man who's calculating, can a normal man say, as soon as I get out of the National Assembly building, I shake hands with people, whether I know them, whether I don't know them. Well, you know who goes as crazy as Crazy on the street and shakes hands with strangers. Don't be a colleague, come to your senses.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25799	Please, please, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, it is my duty to remind you, please, with respect treat another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25800	Don't interrupt me, because you haven't interrupted anyone who spoke before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25801	Please, but I'm really warning you, don't use those terms against your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25802	Do not warn me. I'm telling you from the aspect of my experience and knowledge about this job and the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm talking to you about the fact, my colleague, if you want me to call you a colleague and do it to you, and I'm going to call you that, although I'm getting closer to that expression from my colleague. (Chairman: Please! But if you want, I have to tell you, you're no good at the job you're doing. After that same show, in which the public could have known for what time that thieves and criminals were close to you and your structures deserved to be behind bars and that they were just going to be there, you called the journalist, the author and the show to threaten him, openly threaten him and to direct the threat to me through that phone call. Are you a normal man? You should shut up and never say anything again. You want to talk about it, about your complexes and the fact that your correspondents are laughing at you, those who are doing a drinking barometer, not serious journalists who are following a session of the National Assembly. Come on, man, once you've come to your senses, don't be a spider, the Medrano circus, coming to the assembly every day with new trapeze points, swallowing fire one way or another. So enough, let's do this seriously, with serious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25803	Mr. Krasic has a word. For the third or fourth time, Miss Jovanovic, I'm giving you one warning. Vidize, however, you have used expressions that are not suitable for either your colleague or this home. Let me tell you, if he's broken something, possibly, it's not just you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25804	While you are chairing, Mr. Mihailovic, you are obliged to apply the provisions of Article 104 objectively. Rules of Procedure. Whether it's an MP of the government or an MP of the opposition. Of course, I answered the line about the exposure that was half an hour ago. Lies have been made from this pay phone, because another word does not exist in Serbian. In 2003, or 2001, the SRS was an opposition political party that did not even participate in the work of the National Assembly Committee, and no law was voted in the National Assembly except for resolutions and declarations concerning KIM. This has continued since 2004. Please, a few days ago, an MP attacked us that the SRS did not vote for any of the 208 laws adopted in the National Assembly. Please, Goran Kljajevic chose DOS. Who's the one who's been uraging? Cedomir Jovanovic was urgating. Who gave him the warrant? Dusan Petrovic gave him the warrant because Goran Krajevic is some Uncle Dusan Petrovic. On that basis, both brothers have succeeded in the judiciary and please do not argue with Dusan Petrovic. I know you need to be in a fight with him because the DOS electoral body has been reduced and there's a need to grab as much as possible, to take from that little cake. But don't bring up some things that don't stand and that are orthodox lies. What is not a lie is that through representatives of G17 plus in the Great Personal Council, the resolution of Goran Kljajevic has been prevented. What is the fact, Goran Krajevic, under the influence of Miroljub Labus, has made many decisions and many judgments in the Trade Court. What is a fact, there was also a large press release between Mladjan Dinkic, Goran Kljajevic and their close lawyers as connections. Let me remind you, National Savings, "sugar affair", "Erikson" and not to order any further, everything is tied to G17 plus. Please inform Mr. Jocic it is high time to arrest Mladjan Dinkic. Peace-loving Labus arrests immediately after that, as soon as the bench opens. The bench is complicated. There's evidence since the Mercedes affair on this side. When we talk about Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic, about people who have been found suspicious of being arrested and being prosecuted, that doesn't mean we've called some MP G17 plus. I've pointed out several times from this pay phone that you probably don't even know 90% of the criminal stuff. I just called the one who's been sent and who's got some benefits that he's pummeling on TV and everything for the poor 100 euros that Junior gives him, to keep the tension in public opinion, to attack someone, to turn some things around. The facts are clear, proven, only Mr. Jocic needs to hire this UBPOK and that Mladja Dinkić is keeping us company Goran Kljajevic, but he should also consider those other Kljajevics.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25805	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic has the advantage, and you will be given a word afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's about time we got back to the agenda. The minister ends up with a statement, and I'd like him to come over now that I'm talking, and I have a lot to tell him to be there. Article 104 is unequivocal. However, MPs should at least take a little more care to speak the truth. As far as Goran Kljajevic is concerned, as far as privatisation is concerned, as far as thieving and crime are concerned, as far as the ties between the underworld and the overseas represented by G17 plus are concerned, I think we've said a lot, but what I've got so far has not been said. It's about privatizing the Hempra, and through this it's connected to a few more affairs, and everything is, you know, related to the G17 plus. Hempro bought a certain Gobeljic, the one Gobeljic was recently arrested. Hempro was also sold to the owner of a huge piece of action from the National Savings Bank, Gobeljic, whom they arrested. Remember when the National Savings Bank was formed what Minister Dinkic was saying. It's a national savings bank, it's a national retail bank, it's a domestic bank that will compete with foreign banks. And when we look at who the shareholders are, there's Stanko Subotić, there's Lazarevic, there's Vuk Hamovic, there's Gobeljic, there's Mladjan Dinkic. So, cover your ears, don't move the crime story, because whatever we bury, bury, we always find or Mladjan Dinkic, if that day hurts your leg, or Labus, if it sells "Knjiz Milos". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there's been a lot of replicas, because they just know they're insulting. As far as Telecom is concerned, and as far as this law is concerned, I have a bunch of files and I can't wait to start talking. Believe me, I'm impatient, please allow me, stop the replicas, let me tell the minister what I have to say to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25807	The word is by MP Željko Ivanji, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25808	I mean, first of all, it's important to keep an eye on something, first of all, to stick to the subject, and second of all, to always talk about some things that represent facts. Namely, most of the MPs in this hall know how the trade court story started in Belgrade and knows what was said about this speaker by MPs G17 plus about the Trade Court and its work. They'll probably remember my discussions about registering economic operators, when I called the judges of the Trade Court, not all of them, but some, therefore, people with fat fingers, so they couldn't even do the business of registering businesses. On several occasions in 2000, I faced Goran Kljajevic personally, where I pointed to work failures, or criminal matters. Among other things, we also filed criminal charges against persons who have committed several crimes, and who have elements of organised crime, precisely on the subject of "Mobtel". When we talk about facts and when we talk about these changes and additions to the Telecommunications Act, we need to take care of a few things. When we talk about the "Mobtel" itself, founded in 1994, let's remember that this law on the establishment of a license for the exclusive right to perform mobile telephony "Mobtel" for 20 years. So much for monopolies. That's what's first and foremost and it's totally amazing. It means 20 years to give a license, or an exclusive right that only he can perform that function as a mobile operator! But what happened in 1998? We cannot forget the same year, because it is extremely important for the development of mobile telephony and very important to illustrate the importance of the government's behaviour towards the development of telecommunications. There were no expert groups at the time, what you are now asking for, nor round tables, but how to solve the problem of establishing Telekom Srbija. Telecom Serbia was created and sold in 1997 to make funds for pension payments to pensioners. It's the same "strategic" decision. Then what happened? Bogoljub Karic then knocked and said - I have the exclusive right to do so for 20 years. There was an ingenious solution, which was given to Bogoljub Karic, an annex to the founding contract, right to 13% in Telekom's mobile phone the moment she was created as a separate legal person. Remember the word "legal face." The moment "Telecom" singles out 13% in a special legal person, sets up mobile telephony in a special legal person, then Bogoljub Karic comes and says - I have 13% in it. The decision has been made since the then government of the Republic of Serbia, and the decision was signed by Vojislav Seselj, vice-president of the government. So there was agreement on 13% to comfort Bogoljub Karic in Telecom Serbia. So much for the development of mobile phones in Serbia. The decision was signed in 1998, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj signed. This was an ingenious solution to the development of Serbian telecommunications. That's the facts. Bogoljub Karic is the only thing he can do now, it is to address his members through video-bids, like Star Trek or Planet of Monkeys, when you communicate with a spaceship. The fact that Bogoljub Karic is now in that position in which he is, is due to the people of G17 Plus. That's a fact. I did it myself, and I will never give up on that man ending up in prison, whatever function he's in. And as for the investigation, then it's very important that we introduce Jocic to one more thing, which is that in 98...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25809	Mr Ivanji, are you using the replica or are you using the time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25810	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. This is a fact that we must bear in mind and thus invite Minister Jocic to examine the members of the PTT Management Board from 1998, as well as to examine the people who gave consent to this decision by the Management Board and also to examine the minister who passed the law, who was voted in this assembly, who foresees the obligation to separate the mobile telephony "Telecom" in 2006 into a special legal person and then to Bogoljub Karic to come and seek his 13%. What I can say, just like when his guru was building Telecom Serbia to pay off pensions, "a little morgen, Bogoljub." There is no longer on the national coat of arms to give us anyone, and least of all Bogoljub Karic. What we did, it's criminal charges. I remind you, in October 2004, two months after we arrived at the Post Office of Serbia, we filed a trade court motion to prevent the transfer of funds to the accounts of the connected persons, which the Commercial Court refused. Now we know what the situation is - seven judges of the Trade Court are under criminal charges. It's my own product, what I did as a member of G17 plus. Also, as far as other matters are concerned, it is clear that since 2000 we have been attacking as wasps in the Trade Court. That's why there are documents and there are our statements. We're not ashamed of that. It is certain that any organized crime will be cut in the root. I call on Minister Jocic to test all actors of this kind of development of telecommunications in Serbia, therefore, the presidents of the Management Board of 1998, from 1995, but in 1998, I underline that you were in power, in that government that allowed Bogoljub Karic 13% in Telecom Serbia, if Telecom is singled out in a special legal face, which you are now in favour of, Serbia's mobile telephony.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25811	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25812	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get started. First, the incredible flying shifts among the vice presidents allowed Mr. Ivanji to speak before me, although I was already called to go out for a pay phone, and then there were replicas, etc. I'm sorry the minister left this room in the meantime. I believe his associates will tell him what I had to say, but it's much better for him and for me that he was here. As far as the law goes, this is another policy law, this is another window law. Of course, you'll be passing laws. You're only doing a big job for us Serbian radicals, once we take over the helm after the next election, then we'll have to put a lot of your laws out of force. However, I was afraid that the minister would leave and I had a dilemma about starting with an affair that was already well-discovered, so I could move on to this other affair that is being discovered here and in which he has fingers, fat, to his elbows, G17 plus. But the minister's gone, so I'm no longer at risk of leaving half my discussion, so I'll start. Two or three months ago, I was talking to this pay phone about major crime, the incredible robbery that's going on at the Flight Control Agency. The Minister didn't do anything, but he literally didn't do anything. I was talking about Director Stankov, whose salary is a million and 200 thousand dinars, I was talking about the crime of Stankov and the furniture around him, who bought motor sleds so that in winter they wouldn't spend time on Kopalnik, because to remind you, the radar on Kopalnik is not working, although seven million euros have been invested in radar and three million euros in the building. The radar doesn't work, not NATO, but the sleigh works. A total of five radar systems have been built over the last two or three years, times sevenm euros, plus threem euros for buildings, there are 32m euros voted by the ruling coalition. Only in Montenegro, over which there is no flyover, except when NATO planes flew over to bomb us, the same NATO they went to, two radar systems. Once, the former SFRY had a total of two radar systems, one in Ralja and one in Belgrade's Airport. A total of five were made, with an existing two, that's seven radar systems. So there wouldn't be a G17 out there, like this. First, the wife of Stankov Nikola, Stankov Biljana was secretary of Zoran Djindjic, with now the secretary of one of the ministers, I failed to determine, otherwise she works in that government building, and the cousin of Mr. Labus, although his leg was sore, had arrived to make arrangements, and the cousin of Mr. Labus, although with a higher school, was the main staff member in that flight control. Everything that raised the voice in flight control was fired. Radar systems that have been purchased, either have no primary or no secondary signal, or cannot control military or cannot control civilian aircraft. So far there were radars that had both signals. Now we don't know who's flying over our heads. It may also be Stankov's fault, but it's certainly the merit of both this government and Mladjan Dinkic, first of all, because he's the one who made the money for this. There's one more thing about flying control. When this kleptocrat set changes, flight controllers don't have to worry, they have solid salaries and should have much bigger ones, but Stankov and all the Stankovs around him will have to answer at least three questions, but not the authorities, but the interior ministers, inspectors, etc. Let's move on to the agenda now. The amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act are actually an opportunity to discuss the crime that is happening in this area, and they know and do not take any action precisely responsible. Dragan Kovacevic, a public company of PTT Serbia, met on 23 June 2004, received complete material on ownership relations between Mobtel, done by Tihomir Zivanovic, a member of the inter-resor working group of the Republic of Serbia's government. The material provided documentation that found that mobile phone equipment was imported at about $33.5m, of which 31.5m was recognised, as there was no decision by the board of directors to buy two million dollars of equipment. The founding contract was supposed to be the foreign founder, the Brača Karic BK Trade system from Moscow, importing equipment worth 65m and $350,000. The other four members of the government's task force in their report have admitted that about 44 million dollars have been imported and equipment by Erikson's invoices. Which is something I know about this company. Looks like it's that cell phone that could fall on its feet. According to the contract on the establishment of a mobile network, city coverage has been envisaged and done, as it has enabled most of the money to be taken. Then, the price for the first mobile phones was 13,000 marks. According to the founding contract, it was supposed to be about $400. Finally, the four reported that the company Mobtel had lost 98,566,000 dinars since 1996, and these were expenditures higher than 25,000,000 marks, and in 1997 it had profits of 98,925,000 dinars, not expenditures of 60,000,000. This Kovacevic, in half of July 2004, received documentation on crime in Mobtel. It was found that during the March-July 2002 period, by workers and the public company PTT traffic to Serbia, which, in assistance to Branislav Angelic, the head of the Interim Body of the Trade Court in Belgrade, was given by the then general director, Srdjan Blagojevic, and now a close associate of Bogoljub Karic. Branislav Angelic and Tatjana Rakac have pleaded to the investigative judge that they have been tasked with keeping the company in the blockade as much as possible. The capital investment ministry, since there is no minister to talk about only that director, Minister Velimir Ilic immediately formed a task force following the education of the new government with the task of establishing ownership relations in the company Mobtel. The task force was named Dragana Curcic, now state secretary at the Ministry of Capital Investment, in charge of telecommunications, which did not sign a report on March 23rd 2004, saying that the foreign founder of Brača Karic BK Trade from Moscow, owns 51%, and the public company PTT traffic in Serbia is 49%. In the company Mobtel Branislav Angelic, an earlier interim body that issued a confirmation in June 2002 that BK Trade from Moscow fulfilled all obligations under the founding contract and that the owner of 51% of Mobtel, the government proposed to be a witness in Zurich at the arbitration hearing, proposed by PTT Serbia's Public Enterprise, and the government accepted. Next, Bogoljub Lazic, deputy director-general of Mobtel, as a representative of the PTT Serbia Public Enterprise and deputy minister in charge of telecommunications at the Ministry of Capital Investments. Now he's being investigated for abuse of official office in Mobtel and has been in police custody for 48 hours. Srdjan Blagojevic, former CEO of the PTT Serbia Public Enterprise, is now a close associate of Bogoljub Karic in the Serbian Movement of Forces, Milan Kovacevic, an foreign investment expert, to whom this was the third commission to determine ownership relations in the company Mobtel and has always signed that Mobtel owns 51%. KDS cable TV. Velimir Ilic said in February 2005 at the first RTS programme that all that is done in cable television is a crime and that some NGOs are uncontrollably making big money out of the country. He spoke with the Prime Minister and finance minister and promised citizens that he would immediately take all the huge measures to bring KDS owners into law and pay for the use. He didn't do anything until today. In addition to that statement, Minister Velimir Ilic, the National Assembly's Transport and Liaison Committee did not accept the conclusion that the KDS was involved in crime, as representatives of the DSS, G17 plus, New Serbia, voted against, and SPS representatives abstained. The staff of Velimir Ilic in charge of telecommunications, Bogoljub Lazic, deputy minister of Ilic, was relieved of duties due to conflicts of interest, and Deputy Minister of Telecommunications Dragomir Vasiljevic was relieved, while the current state secretary, according to press information, resigned. The issue of responsibility, possibly criminal ones, will also be determined for Momčel Simic, the assistant minister of telecommunications, who was appointed on 19 August 2005 as an assistant, and on 31 August 2005, he took the severance from the RTS Public Enterprise – therefore, not only are they "yellow" prone to take the severance from one company and move to another, and they do not have the right to work for two years – amounting to 773,885 dinars. Then he immediately started working at the Ministry of Capital Investment. Who can trust such an assistant minister now that the permits for broadcasting stations are shared, etc. About the distribution of TV and radio frequencies, I won't do anything, although I have data, but we'll wait to see how the frequencies divide, so there'll be time. We're on our way to Mladjan Dinkic. Minister Mladjan Dinkic did not explain to citizens how he established ownership relations in the company Mobtel, where the Republic of Serbia has 70% and Martin Schlaf 30%. It's that Martin Slaf who bought from Karic action, so he bought, so he didn't buy, so he paid, so he didn't pay, so Karic ran away, and then now that Karic's gone, then Dinkic's here, so he finished the job with him. Mladjan Dinkic, as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, filed a criminal report to the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office against Bogoljub Karic, Sreten Karic, Zoran Karic, Dragomir Karic and other persons on payments through the Cyprus firm "JUSIKO" and others. The D.A.'s district attorney's office has not closed the case until today. Here's a criminal report filed by Mladjan Dinkic. The finance ministry, the IRS, the IRS, the IRS, has been conducted since 6. 2. In 2006, he wrote criminal charges for tax evasion in connection with those payments via PP "JUSIKO", against Bogoljub Karic to the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, and against Sreten Karic, Zoran Karic, Dragomir Karic to the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Peća. So I'm asking, were the Karics all in Belgrade? They have seven houses here. How now against Bogoljub in Belgrade and against others in Peća, i.e. Leskovac, because the Pecko Public Prosecutor's Office has been transferred to Leskovac. Reports say that the crime for unpaid tax is outdated unless the procedure is initiated by March 15th, 2006. This is obviously about public manipulation. This is not the rest, but we will return to Mladjan Dinkic and the crime he is directly responsible for. The government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision on 16 March 2006 to launch a public procurement procedure, consulting services, a privatisation adviser for the telecommunications sector, in the process of guessing without prior publication. The government has made this decision on the basis of Article 23 paragraph 2. The law on public procurement, which reads: "The orderer can award a contract of procedure, with guessing without prior publication 1) if, for objective reasons or for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights of purchase, only certain suppliers of goods, service providers or contractors can meet it; 2) if, because of exceptional circumstances, or because of unforeseen events, whose performance is not dependent on the will of the order, could not act within the deadlines set for open and restrictive proceedings; (something, these extraordinary circumstances as I mentioned here, came to me and those trains imported from Sweden and paid by a million euros per set, more than and 10 years older than that of Croatia, to which you are calling, paid. ) 3) or if no offer has been received in an open or restrictive procedure or all offers have been inappropriate. "First, it is not clear with which explanation the government has made this decision, so this document should be requested from the Government in accordance with the Law on the availability of information of public importance. This provision can apply to more than one force, and in particular there is no force. Secondly, at a press conference, Mladjan Dinkic said this is about selecting a privatisation adviser for the company "Mobtel", and the decision says that a privatisation adviser for the telecommunications sector is elected, which is a fundamental difference. In order to determine the actual situation, under the Law on the availability of information of public importance, competition documentation should be requested from the Privatisation Agency, in which it is written what the adviser should do. The government has appointed members of the procurement commission and authorised the Privatisation Agency to carry out the whole procedure for selecting a privatisation adviser. The agency selected 19 companies to send the competition documentation. And now, you need to look for documentation based on which choice was made and when the request was filed. She invited them to submit their offer at 2 p.m. on 31.3.2006. Offers were handed over to six firms. And now, let me try to read, of those six firms that have made the offer, four companies show up in one law firm, one company shows up. It's about Milosevic's lawyer's office. It's about three companies that show up. So the same people all six applications filed. That's the point. As it appears, Milosevic, the lawyer's office, in various variants of the subcontractor in five of the six bids, this second firm in four of the six bids, Miroslav Djukic, again the lawyer's office, in two of the four bids, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the record on which it was determined which of the 19 invited have the right and here is a list of all the six that they have received, or brought, according to them, the correct offers. And I think Minister Stojkovic could take this material and hand it over to the public prosecutor. Of course, the report on the opening of applications, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been so much insult to crime in almost all ministries that it is high time that or that ministry that has to do its job is finally doing its job, because they have started to arrest, that they have arrested their first co-worker, Gobeljic, who is tied to Hempro and the mineral water "Vranjci". Yeah, I forgot, the same one privatized the mineral water "Vronci", but then Labus didn't seem to have a leg, he was in charge of "Knjiz Miloša", and for "Vronjci" he was probably in charge of someone else. There's so much thieving, there's crime in the economy, thanks to just the work of the government, and wherever you open a crime, you always wait at least one at a time, if not two, three and more from a coded political organization called G17. If they continue like this, if Minister Jocic starts doing his job, he'll be out on G2, G3, G4 very soon. I'm sure there won't be 17 more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25813	Replica, MP Zeljko Ivanji, then MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25814	Just for a little while, for the sake of truth. So what's important, and first I'm going to answer what's been done about Mobtel by CTU as co-owner in that company. So this, in May 2004, came the new management in PTT, in June 2004, PTT filed a countersuit in Zurich with the aim of determining the percentage of ownership in favour of the state. So that's the first thing, that's about 20 days after coming to CTU. Until then, the suit was Bogoljub Karic, which he asked for 51-49 to be established in his favour, the state did not react. At that time, the CEO was his distinguished party member now. In October 2004, therefore three months after the arrival, a lawsuit to the Trade Court in Belgrade, with a request for temporary measures, which would make it impossible to pour funds into the accounts of a parasite company founded by Bogoljub Karic. As you know, the Trade Court refused us, judges of the Trade Court Mrs. Kozic, Žanka Radic and Stojkovic are under criminal charges for taking bribes. In February 2005, the prosecutor's first request to determine the criminal responsibility of the person who caused damage to the state. In March 2005, the blockade of the Board of Directors of Mobtel by failing to participate PTT's representatives in his work. So the Mobtel Management Board has been blocked. In December 2005, as you recall, before I opened an investigation into abuses, I spoke about a harmful contract with the company Mobikos, owned by Albanian terrorist Ekrem Luka. In January 2006, criminal charges against Director General Mobtel Patrick Harpur and other persons. As far as participating in arbitration in Zurich, you asked the question of Angelic's participation as a witness. True, Angelic was a witness in Zurich, there was a witness in front of PTT. But what did it look like? We invited him to testify in Zurich and then asked him a few questions and when we were done, when the process was over, he said - and the people we didn't agree on. We kicked him so much in there, he didn't know where his head was anymore, because he signed some of the things that were against the state, and he publicly told the arbiter in front of the arbitration. That's what this is about. So it was a fine witness that we drew up and said -- did you sign that Bogoljub Karic brought a million dollars into Mobtel; he said yes, and then we tell him -- listen to your friend, when he brought in and if there was evidence of it, then he kept quiet. Angelic, that witness in Zurich. So, yeah, we called him and then we took him down there before the arbitration. As for the privatisation advisor, therefore, there is a mixed choice of strategic advisor and privatisation advisor, and there is a law on amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act where we do not make a special legal face. Exactly the strategic advisor to be elected will give us guidance on the further development of telecommunications, and hence the state operator. So that's where there's been a misunderstanding. As far as the privatisation advisor is concerned, we can't ban any participant in the tender from entering a consortium with whom he will. Direct offers have come to this, given that both Article 1 and Article 2 of that procurement law can come directly to the bidder, if only he can provide services, the number of people who are bidders has been limited, and besides, there have been exceptional circumstances, in order to return to the state what he has stolen all the years to return a billion euros to Serbia, to return the money to the Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25815	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25816	I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been there for a while, I can see that some have lost their nerve, but it's good that they're nervous because when they're a nervous people they're satisfied, they know they're bad at going and they'll soon be free for Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I respected a man who spoke earlier. I respected him because I counted on him to speak seriously, professionally about some things about Mobtel. He often told the truth. Now I've heard him deliberately telling the truth, and I'll tell you why, as well as what some have interpreted about Goran Kljajevic, I've even brought a text to read. Namely, how could you not say, Mr. Ivanji, that thanks to Vojislav Seselj, you had the right to withdraw the licence from Bogoljub Karic, because Vojislav Seselj said that the licence is intolerable and that he signed that he should not allow any Mobikos or anyone else to transfer that licence. Why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia? Why are you keeping it quiet, Mr. Ivanji? Why don't you say the decision was signed as chairman of the Committee on Business and Finance? Since you're not ashamed, your party president signed a decision to impose provisional measures in Novi Pazar, and then said it was a shameful decision he signed himself, because he's the government's vice president for it. We pride ourselves on this, bringing him into legal flows and preventing Ekrem Luke from making crime the way he did. That's why they're nervous. Someone was talking, pretending to be smart because people are reading some kind of newspaper, and usually in the paper they're lying. Lately, in various newspapers, they've been lying a lot, and here they say, "Caddy helped Seselj too." There is no such thing in the text at all, but they say the radicals voted against the proposal for some Jelisaveta Vasilic. Of course we voted, as we always voted against every DOS proposal. And our 23 MPs, it goes without saying, as we will always vote. What's the problem? He says you helped Cedi Jovanovic or I don't know who. I don't really know what to tell you. I understand the complexes of all kinds, I understand all sorts of things, I understand the problems you have in the electoral body, just keep us on track, it's not our right measure yet, you haven't brought us down to the right measure, now just about 40%, and the right measure will be 50% plus one, and you will slowly but certainly bring us down to that extent 50% plus one in the Serbian people and just help us still.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25817	According to article 101, he has the right to replicate because a member of 101 defines such a replica. Mr. Ivanji, come in. The President-in-Office shall take the decision [[Alexander Vukic: Can't, my presentation was a replica.]] You mentioned the client. [[Alexander Vukic: He caused a replica.]] Mr. Ivanji, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25818	As an authorised representative, to mention party G17 plus. What I'm saying is, I'm grateful for the trust you've shown me and for thinking I'm an honest and honest man. But you said about my speech, about the Deputy Prime Minister who was on call at the time, so he signed that decision. Let's see who was the minister in charge back then in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is now a question of who was then the minister in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia to give consent. Was it Todorovic? So that's what this is about. We're not talking about who was on call to sign anything, we're talking about who was the minister in charge who gave consent. What is a fact, and that is what is indisputable, is that in this way, in order to ease the suffering of Bogoljub Karic, who was also in government at the time, you gave 13% in Telekom Srbija if it were singled out in the special legal face of Telekom Srbija's mobile phone. That's the only truth and that's what's true, 13% in Telekom Srbija to comfort Bogoljub. That's the problem, and that's the problem we're dealing with, with the desire to get out of this papazian state, in which way we've seen the development of telecommunications and telecommunications networks at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25819	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25820	I told you not to always call for a signature, but I told you that they were absolutely right about everything they did. And now I'm going to tell you why, and then we're going to move on to some other things. So, Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS, insisted that something that was illegal, and until that moment, as you know, fully illegally worked, the entire network of mobile phones, to be subdued under the law, and that was done by all the ministers, and as Deputy Prime Minister, he signed it. You're talking about 13% here. You're saying that, you who have offered from 44% to 48% here and secretly and publicly, opened the market with all the competent ministers. The citizens of Serbia remember, our people are smart. You'll get as much, you'll get as much, just make arrangements with us not to have 55% or as much as you want, so when he's politically compromised, let's go down to the end. By what member? According to the one that Vojislav Seselj left you, because he was strictly law-abiding, because what he signed, no one has the right to transfer the license to anyone else or to Ekrem Luke. Right? That's right. But that doesn't suit you to say. Bogoljub Karic did not support us. Now I'm gonna tell you, you don't have to worry. Bogoljub Karic was a member of the government, it is true. It's not a secret. Bogoljub Karic appears to be democratisation after that, abruptly. We stayed, suddenly he was expert in and democratisation, so he became an expert in democratic political options. Is Bogoljub Karic in a coalition with the SRS in Vojvodina? It's not. You are with us, and we are with you, and those with those in some community, where people decide with whom and no one can command them, neither you nor we, nor need. As for Bogoljub Karic, is that the one you have been dealing with all the time, all your powers, how, how and how. Don't yell from there. How much, how and how much money you're going to split, before the elections, so let's give it back to him after the first degree of judgment. Have you ever heard that in Serbia, someone returns money after a second-degree ruling from the state authorities, not after the first-degree. Never in the history of the Serbian judiciary has that happened, never in the history of the Serbian state. How you keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25821	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25822	Mr. Obradich, don't worry about the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25823	You have three minutes for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25824	So, since they got, and for that they got in return and some money, then you kept your mouth shut. None of it's my problem. I like to take care of ourselves. Everyone on their own. You bring us down to our measure, just the way you're going, with that trend, that nothing changes. Here's how this guy who's yelling, he's going to cut us down, keep it going. In the same trend, in the same direction, everything to be. You grow up like a yeast, like a political party to all 2, 3%. You're about to stop at 2.3%, because no one will stop you, no matter how you turn around. Let me tell you something, be careful not to pass the election, metaphorically speaking, of course, that you don't crack like those balloons with which you celebrated someone's death, someone's funeral, because those balloons told you exactly who you are and what you are, and how you're going to pass in the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25825	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Milojub Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25826	Mr. Chairman, it must come out when something that's half true or much more false than truth is brought out. Now let me remind you of some chronology, since some are punished for having to know everything and remember. You see, Bogoljub Karic, when he entered co-production around "Mobtel", he inherited a contract from an American partner. Under that contract, he was granted exclusive rights and was as such the only one. In 1997, Telecom entered into one privatisation process and was also sold, and then the state took about a billion and 600, 700 million marks, it seems to me, and that other partner was granted exclusive rights, while the law changed, so they had to regulate the agreements on the license of that right, because it is impossible for two operators to have exclusive rights that prohibit someone else. Of course, it's been regulated. How? In accordance with the law. On the basis of that contract and that regulation, the state has protected its interests. If it hadn't been for that, you wouldn't have been able to try to clear up some of the things about Bogoljub Karic. Ivanji knows that very well. You are now in the phase, and remind Jocic, he needs to arrest Mladjan Dinkic, and he better listen to me, I've been calling from here for Karic for six months, and you listened and you did well. I called for Slovenia for two months, you finally released the film, I call it order, because I know how it should end. Something else, the government's decisions and the current ones, and you've seen for yourself, is not only signed by the Prime Minister, but also by the vice president. You can't, on the basis of the signature of a decision made by the Government, draw the conclusion that an individual is responsible. I don't see what the reason for calling for a government decision signed by an individual is. That's the kind of reason you use. Your reason is that the Belgrade Agreement is signed by Labus, with Djindjic and others, the two of them are getting away with it and saying, we don't know what Kostunica did with Solana. We have an example of the New Market, signed a decision, and it says, "That's scandalous." We don't call you for that. We're just finding out that whoever signed it has repented and taken another stand. When he signed, he signed what the government decided, she made that decision. How can he say I won't sign? If you say so, I won't sign, it means the government didn't make that decision. It's not hard to understand and understand. Maybe it takes a little trouble, last year I made you stick your head in it, and it's not that hard to be nice. For normal blades, for sound judgment, only basic intelligence is required. In this particular case, you're just making a difference between water and fire, and as you can see, that's not so hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25827	Replica, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25828	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. The facts he brought here (from the O.R.: which member? ), Article 104, Željko Ivanji, you cannot, Mr. Vukic, answer the lies. Go to the citizens of Serbia and tell them yes, I was sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia next to Bogoljub Karic. There was a chair next to each other. Does that mean... (President: I had them sitting next to me. )......................................................................................................... that you have negotiated with each other about how Karic will sign this contract, how the government will grant him certain things. You chose the wrong topic, because you, and Seselj, and Nikolic, and Todorovic, and others sat with Bogoljub Karic in that government. My question is, did you agree to settle down, what you were doing at the time to allow him to steal from Serbian citizens afterwards. The fact is that this government is doing a whole other thing, stealing money brings people and citizens of Serbia back, and there's a difference between us. You're not ashamed to talk like this. You say that's not true, come out if you dare. Did you go to lunch with Karic, what did you do as ministers together? What were you doing together in the cabinet? Explain it to the people. Therefore, here are now clear to all Serbian citizens the facts and arguments presented by Zeljko Ivanji, a man who is a fighter against the theft of Bogoljub Karic, and the facts spoken by the minister then in the government and who sits and deals with Bogoljub Karic. Citizens, I guess it's all finally clear now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25829	Thank you. By the way, to be honest, Wolfie sat next to me at the government session.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was sitting next to Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25831	Bogoljub Karic was the first minister without portfolio, and me and Mr. Vukic were ministers with resolutions, seriously, so he sat where Bajro sat, eventually. You know where the place is. Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25832	I shouldn't have come out for a pay phone, the man who came out started to scare me, and it was very difficult for me. I have to admit when he comes out and he says, come out and admit it, people, I don't know what's wrong with me, or I'm not okay with anything or there's some other problem. Did I just say that Karic was in that government? Yes, as I recall. You didn't hear it or what? Or didn't you want to hear it? Or I don't know what happened to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25833	In short, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25834	Yes, however, it was very short, because there were some demands that could not be met, but it was short. What? I don't know, right to tell you, maybe you know, if you have something, tell me. I have to tell you something, because you're talking about it and people talk about how Karic buys them or someone else. He never offered me anything, I never got a dime. No, no, unlike you, who rob, steal and steal, but not pettyly, but in millions of euros, and don't put in your pockets, but load into your trucks, we honest people threaten and watch you get caught and go behind bars. Let me tell you something, these are people, look at what those liars are like. The other day, at B92, it lied to this BETA, not all of them, but the good part lies, and the G17 plus with them together. They say it's you who are going to fight, it's you who pull your ears out, who do what you want, it's you who break in, burn down the congregations, and we're just watching you, we're looking to get away where we can, you're very strong, we're not allowed to do anything, with those 2.3% that's a miracle. So they say of Kikinda, they say that the municipality of Kikinda has sponsored some sort of SRS event. You're not ashamed to lie. Wait, aside from that, it wouldn't have been a big deal if she'd sponsored it, how dare you lie, when the Kikinda municipality didn't give a single penny, right? There's not a single dinar in the Kikinda municipality that you're lying about, that's lying about BETA, that's lying about B92, don't you have anything else to say? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't mind you talking about the SRS, because I'm especially grateful now, I'm ready when the break comes, I'm paying for the drinks and lunch to the speaker, because every time he comes out to us by 0.1%, and I'm asking you to come out for a pay phone as often as possible, because whenever you show up here and whenever you start attacking the SRS, you always bring us to that extent of 50%. That measure is getting closer. Now let me tell you one thing. We're not going to lute you, we're not going to exclude you from political life, we're going to keep you as a little bit of palm water, we're not going to lock you up in camps, in stadiums, as you would us, etc. We don't want any of that. You will have the best possible attitude of the state towards you, most of you, we will respect you maximum. We won't be in this House, since you won't be, because you can't cross the censorship, but we'll also have an extra-parliamentary opposition to respect you, you'll be able to normally hold meetings with 10, 12 present, maybe get together somewhere, and 14, but you'll all have an orderly permit. We only tell you one thing, and it would be pointless for me to exaggerate and act unfairly, I apologize for that, Mr. Angelkovic, taking the time, will have to respect the rule of law and those involved in crime and thieving will have to answer for it. It's a fundamental definition of the SRS. This balloon thing, you'll only have to answer morally to the citizens of Serbia. For those balloons, Serbian citizens will give you a political verdict, and then all the stick when you take it, you won't be able to jump to 2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25835	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the challenge of coming out of Mr. Albianic and calling to say who he was sitting next to, I was sitting next to Mr. Karic. Therefore, don't give a basic lie here and lie about Mr. Vukic sitting next to Mr. Karic. With regard to your elaborateness, very inspired and extremely incorrect, not to tell a liar, I never had any private relations with Mr. Karic, I never had any meetings with him, I never took part in any arrangement. It's very interesting, if what you say is true and what you honor us, if we were in some kind of business, with some economic benefits that it was tied up, it would be strange if I hadn't been able to attend something like that and I hadn't noticed anything like that. Let me finish this story, because this is an unnecessary and ridiculous story. You were still able to say in that galatias the words you said to say that, thanks to that elaborate, we were being radicalized by Mr. Karic, a stolen people, and today you are torturing yourself and returning to that people. As you return, that's what the people in the election will tell you. The people are getting poorer and hungrier, and all of Serbia knows it. Therefore, refrain a little, at least from this place and from this pay phone, you often plead not to tell the truth. Now you've told an eclectic lie, you've had nothing to do with it, you've laughed and enjoyed it, so please, let's at least get basic and basic facts here in front of this auditorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25837	We still have Mr. Wolf to say, here you go, as a speaker. Mr. Omeragic, are you answering for a word or by the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Omeragic. You have to wait because I've already given my word to Mr. Wolf. Mr. Wolf, give him your word, thank you for your understanding. The word is Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25838	Since the chairman told me to sit at the end of this table where the government is sitting, for the sake of the notice, indeed, the geometric shape of that table is an ellipse and there is no end. It's about that logic. [[Laughter]] We've been listening here these few days to really some fun-recreative discussion, which says that the New Market Assembly was disbanded because the government had no other business, but realized that it was disbanding. However, no one here mentions that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has brought two solutions to disband this assembly. The RS government only took note and received these solutions, then Minister Dinkic gave professional services to his ministry to make a report, and the Committee on Economy and Finance came up with a proposal from the finance ministry that the budget was against the law. That's what the Economic and Finance Committee did. Mr Dinkic explained his ministry's expert opinion at the cabinet session, the resolution minister spoke of the importance of applying the Constitutional Court's decisions, and any law student knows what would happen to the rule of law if some MPs' opinions were applied, including ministers who say, were not the time to apply the Constitutional Court's decision. Imagine this formulation. I asked these people, what does the notion of time mean, whether constitutional court decisions are applied from autumn to spring, and then I said that maybe it's not the time to apply the Constitutional Court decision from 10 to 12 hours, that category of time, whether they might be applied in the afternoon or in the morning, but they didn't answer me. Therefore, the RS government did not disband the New Market Assembly, but the Constitutional Court did so. This kind of interpretation really concerns the citizens, because calling from the highest legislative body on an inappropriate decision of the Constitutional Court is calling for legal anarchy, hitting on the foundations of the rule of law, and I wonder what kind of legal certainty would arise in society and state if MPs would begin to negotiate with individual members of the Government whether it is time or not to apply the decisions of constitutional courts. I will not quote here a legal philosopher who wrote about it, when during the Weimar Republic MPs in the German parliament began to discuss whether there were any decisions of the Constitutional Court like this or whether they should be applied. The principle of legal certainty and legal logic requires, even the biggest legislators say, this has been adopted in the legal science as a principle, because of the principle of legal certainty, even the law is required to be respected until they change. Politicians in the Assembly can agree to change the law, make a change and supplement. You can't negotiate not to apply the norm or not to respect the verdict, not the municipal court, but the Constitutional Court. Therefore, calling for non-application of the Constitutional Court's decisions is problematic from a number of points of view. Because of this principle of legal certainty and because of the rule of law, it is extremely important for people to be politically responsible and not to spread disinformation, not to call for the collapse of the rule of law by saying about the Constitutional Court's decision. That's why I'm saying that the Ministry of Finance acted according to the law, because it's not only that the code of the Law on Local Self-Government was violated, it's the Law on the Budget System, which is clear. (President: Time.) ) There are even imperial norms around which there is no room for different interpretations, but it is clearly and decadently said how the budget is determined, who holds the chairmanship of the Council. The law on local self-government says the Council is chaired by a president or a deputy, and those in Novi Pazar have made a decision that the Council does not have a chairman. The Constitutional Court annulled their previous decision from the Assembly's decision, which entered the Statute, which reads as follows: (Besides the norm that is clear - that the President or his deputy chair is the one who gets the largest number of votes from the council members in Pazar, they agreed, most of them in the Assembly, like this). (President: Time.) ) The Constitutional Court annulled them, and it took the Constitutional Court a year to ambush that solution. Then they agreed: We act according to the Constitutional Court's decision and change that member of the Statute, but now it says: The Council has no chairman. (President: Mr Omeragic, do not call on Hegel, you do not act in accordance with his principles, because our Rules of Procedure also provide for appropriate rules. I've been waiting to hear a lot of speakers these few days. I just wanted to give these explanations and say that from the speaker of the highest legislative body it is extremely bad and for the health of the rule of law that is very worrying to call for disrespect of the decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25839	In order not to get sick, it would be our turn to respect the time for hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krasic, these are the few remains of that previous regime, an invitation not to respect legal solutions and legal decisions, so you don't have to waste time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25840	Mr. Angelkovic, you didn't preside in the morning, so you didn't get a chance to hear a few discussions from the SRS. Perhaps Mr. Omeragic wasn't there, so he didn't have a chance to hear it. Mr. Omeragic, I fully support your fight for law enforcement, for respect of the law, for respect of the law, for the decisions of all courts. Mr. Omeragic, take care, the draft law on amendments to the Telecommunications Act is on the agenda. In the light of this law, it says: "In accordance with the above, there is no justification for the application of the provisions of the law." This means that the government, which you support, says: we will not apply the law. Since we don't want to apply the law, we're asking for the law to change. So they had to apply the law. They didn't want to use it. That's the same thing you said earlier, but you're going to vote for this law now and you're going to amnesty someone who knowingly violates the law. She boasts, that your government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is for legalism, boasts that she will not respect the law and says: we are cheaper to call 250, 126 will raise hands and we will change the law. What was anti-European will now become European and vice versa. If you stand for the last drop of blood for the law, Constitution, order, then you must not raise your hand for this. Why? Because then you voted for the amnesty of Vojislav Kostunica, or Mladjan Dinkic. Let Jocic know, it's about time he arrested Mladjan Dinkic?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25841	Mr. Bajram Omeragic, replica. Let's see what Hegel says.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25842	I don't want to quote Kelzen or Radbroch or Hegel or any of the other political philosophers. That's what I mentioned. Mr. Krasic is a former member of the government and he knows the government must act by law. I'm sure this assembly, and I'm sure the citizens won't live to see me calling from this pay phone for contempt of the law or for me to vote for something that I find against the law. That's for sure. I'm going to study this amendment and supplementation of the law as an MP, and if I find that there are any violations of the law, I won't vote for that law. Let us see if this law is against the law until the voting day, whether the proposal is not in compliance with all the regulations. I will always choose to vote in favour of free belief, but I will never abuse my free belief in that I have free confidence to vote freely for something that is against the law. This kind of freedom does not exist in politically responsible people. We can call for political freedom -- I want to vote for something that's against the law, but then we're not politically responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25843	The word has the People's MP Aca Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25844	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I talk about who knows who, I don't want to cause anyone any trouble because I know someone or I don't know what because I know everything. There is no man in Serbia who does public work without knowing him and not sitting with him. I've sat with Tadic, I don't know how many times, with Kostunica I don't know how many times, with Dinkic and Karic, of course, as with each other. There is no one I have not sat with, both in the congregation and elsewhere. So what? Is that some kind of sin? It was interesting before, back in the '90s, those who do politics for a long time know that at the beginning of political action there was an objection in some parties, like, you're sitting, what are you doing with it? I sit with whoever I want, I have my beliefs, no one will ever change them for me. I'll talk to whoever I want, do whatever I want, while it's in accordance with law and morality. I think it's the honorable and most normal relationship everyone should have. I can't think of any of you giving me a hand or telling me to have a drink, to say, "I'm sorry, I won't do that." Meso, how much did we drink together, and we all think differently? Do we have a link? [[Tossing from the O.R.: Kric is your link.]] I have nothing to say to you. It might be untasteful for me to answer anything. I've come to show when such untruths seem to spread. Look at the citizens of Serbia, I'll send them an invoice later to pay me as an ad, but look what they can do. They put on the other side and they say -- radicals debilitated the federal budget. Now you'll hear the numbers, you'll laugh alone. He says -- at the annual level of the SRS parliamentary group, they all took together, 30 of them took 10,000 euros. They are 30 per year for 10,000 euros, so calculate, 20 euros on a monthly basis, at legal sessions of parliamentary clubs. For 20 euros at the monthly level, radicals are sickened. Why am I asking this question? Why did I show this? Our political opponents through their media exposures, they don't know what they're going to do anymore. We're tired of 20 euros, I don't understand. You're not ashamed of yourself. How can you not be ashamed of things like this? I just can't understand that someone is trying today, because for six years the Europeans have ruled, as if they were all about the Arctic-Anarktic parties or the Australian-American, I don't know what they are, but European and democratic parties, because I guess these others are not elected by the elections, but by the poles they enter parliament. I don't know what you meant by that. I guess these parties aren't guilty for nothing, for all the guilty Serbian radicals. People, for six years you have ruled alone with this or that support, without any interference of Serbian radicals, we didn't even want to enter the transitional government. After six years, the Serbian radicals are the most disturbing to you. I'll tell you why. Because we're the only ones who aren't in any combination. Come on, buddy, Chamber of Commerce, take the Chamber of Commerce, even though you're in opposition, take some FK Partizan or Star, take a little Olympic Committee like this or something, take a little bit of what, where there's that and that, make that combination. Because you know that, that's why the SRS bothers you. Then you say no, but you have it at the municipal and city level. Of course, we have where we rule, and we'll have another 20 years to let you know right away. We're just gonna take this, so you don't worry. Congratulating Mr Blažić and Mr Krajinovic at a particularly held meeting in Kickinda, which I see very nervous, every honour to you and to the fact that there are more and more members and supporters of the SRS who wanted such a significant gathering to help, and many scientists who have come, because I must once again say to these liars that they are no longer lying and that they are not making up how SO pays and how it is paid by the citizens of Serbia, or the money of the people of Kickinda. I also welcome what's called that TV that praises me every day, Panovizia, thank them for that, every day praises me and says that my hate speech is because I called local DS leaders thieves. Serbian citizens, I will continue to say those words, because I am unable to say that those who rob and steal represent wonderful people, who have wrongly alienated part of social, state or private property. To me, they're thieves or thieves, like I'm in a mood at some point. I also tell them that I will continue with this and that they can still hate me, as they have hated me so far. As for the other telecommunications problems we're facing; first someone forgot their glasses here, not to take someone, and I need them, but I can't need a dioptria at all. So, as far as the other problems we are facing are concerned, I don't know if you're noticing or if this has become common, that an orchestrated campaign against the state of Serbia and the Serbian people is being run every night at a TV station. This TV is foreign television, mostly or formally domestically with 49% foreign capital, and is essentially foreign television. It is about TV B92, which broadcasts directly at the worst possible propaganda every evening, acts as the worst propaganda against the Serbian people and the Serbian state. I know it doesn't bother you, I know it doesn't bother anyone, I know we don't have the right to interfere or to tell anyone anything, but right now I'm telling you that I don't know who they're going to be able to explain to or under what criteria they're not giving any television, any TV, and they're giving B92. I don't know how it's gonna work. I don't mind that they're so arrogant and rude that they can say that they're even professional, objective and I don't know what it is. After a smart man comes to die of laughter, that it is not a serious thing in the country, because in the future, if they give them that frequency contrary to the law, to the opposite morale, they will use the country's national well-being, as they are using it against the law today. You know, they started it, they took it, so the privatisation was, so Djindjic said he would cut off the hand of whoever appeared, as he cut his heads off for Novi Popovac etc. So it was all done against the law, against the law, and nothing to anyone. Now we ask, and from whom does the building, at what cost? Do you know, Mr. Omerovic, how much is that? A lot of money. A lot of money, and you don't pay, late payment. I had full resources until six months ago, now they're denying me something, but in accordance with the availability of information, I'm going to have to get everything. I've decided to use the means I've never served before and that they'll have to deliver everything to me in black and white. Let's see at what price the state gave it, what's the state's interest in giving B92 television, whose interest is that? Is it a state interest for Serbs to appear as villains who shoot at snipers killing animals and children? Is that an interest? Not to mention that Serbs were raped in Sarajevo, Serbs were killed by snipers and more than 7,000 Serbs were killed in Sarajevo. Is it, people, what kind of state interest is that I'm interested in, now we're talking about money, now it doesn't matter their programme, we know who they are, now we're talking about the money of a Serbian citizen whose interest it is? Who does that? There's gonna be a lot of questions. I'm talking about these who were voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I know they'll be told by the American Embassy -- you're not in a position to compete if B92 doesn't win. That just confirms what I'm talking about, what state our country is in today. I warn them they will have to explain to the Serbian people why TV B92 gave it. BK Television, take away their 10-minute block or five-minute, no matter how much or half-hour, it still works a hundred times better than B92. Tell me it's not. A hundred times better. Let me see how it goes, see how it explains it. Let's see what they tell us when they give to those who are attacked by the Serbian state and the Serbian people moto media political action. All day and every day. I don't mind anyone saying what they want, anyone can make up whatever they want, lies are short legs, and things always come to their place. I just want to remind the citizens of Serbia of one thing, and I'm going to have to ask these from the Broadcasting Agency Council if that's what they mean. I'll remind you of my case, which is currently in front of the D.A.'s office, following Veran Matic's report. So it's a TV that's been campaigning against Tom Nikolic for the time being, that he's committed crimes in Antino. Now I need to explain a few things to the citizens of Serbia. They'd do it all the way, respected citizens. They would have made an innocent man guilty, accused him and convicted him. They just made the wrong timing. That was the only mistake. The crimes took place in September and October, and Tom arrived in December. They've all been prepared, as many witnesses as you want them to say. And then there was a mistake. I just want to say one thing to the citizens, and to you Serbian radicals, there's nothing they won't do, there's nothing they won't do. That's what they said, they asked me, I told them it was true I didn't pay for the phone for three months, and lying about Infostan doesn't matter. You, as you know, always tell the truth. Now, these are the ones that are silent today to say DS in the Smederjev Palace owes 500 grand for electricity, and 300,000 for the phone, because that's a small thing, and that's why they're going to shut up, and that's not going to talk about it. These are the ones that when you are invited to the guests you can't talk to, because he tells Tommy Nikolic, there says Tom Nikolic's apartment somewhere near the temple of St. Sava. Turns out it's a eight-year-old kid named Tomislav Nikolic. Is that what he's gonna get the frequency? What, to continue such objective and impartial information. And then the most insolent insolence. He says, according to Ebarth's analysis, he says, listen to this, the most representative SRS. And you know how much she's the most represented? Here's the thing, we're sick of the 20-euro radical budget, so it's the most represented. Toma Nikolic has this winner and loser, in the last year, a man is 23 times a loser, not a single winner, and he in the elections and in the people is growing more and more votes, growing support, growing confidence. Then what's he talking about? Then who's he talking about? About Tommy Nikolic or about those who act like that? About moaning the budget for 20 euros at legal meetings, and not only legal, but primarily necessary. We've seen everything and heard everything in this country. Until the press convinces you, like now to get to any of you and I say, this building across from our building, that's your building, you tell me -- no. Yeah, well, you know it is, but now it doesn't matter, and you say -- well, it's not people, so let's get me inside. Oh, yeah, you know that. And now what are you guys talking about? I really had that conversation yesterday. And you don't believe it. In Serbia, it takes a lot to lead to normal relations, to understand civilized relations, but it seems to me that Serbia needs to not share the worst in our people. They have a problem because they have noticed that a new generation of people are standing in Serbia, not year-on-year, is a new wave of both young and old people who are ready for their courage to oppose occupation servants. You see, I have no problem talking about it every day, and I don't care how they attack me and what they say and what they do. If they told me that, I'd go up there three times tomorrow and tell them, and three times what I would tell them wouldn't be half the truth because the truth is much scarier than what I'm allowed from this pay phone, according to the Rules of Procedure, to say it, and you all know it. And I know you do. We people have no idea about the receipts of those whose salaries have been reported for 5,000 euros, reported, and who knows how much they are, they're giving us no idea what they're doing, they're giving me no sense of how honest they are, and I don't know what they're doing to me, or I don't know what they're doing. It's just that I'm waiting for some of them to come out individually to get out and say yes, I am, so that I can tell them in their faces how much and what they stole from this country and from this people. But I say all things: We have learned; they are messengers; they are these; they are they. They were not chosen by the people, some of them of course, not chosen by the people; they chose themselves, and gave themselves the right to steal. And then they don't count on us, they don't have time, they fight between themselves, so they won't answer us. What would happen now for these floods, why don't you criticise the Seselj Army for moving money from earthquakes to floods? So you filed criminal charges, there's nothing you didn't do, I'm telling all of you DOS. Did Djelic file criminal charges against people for handing out bonuses to workers? And he transferred Karic's money after the first degree conviction. And you know how big the cake was, how much was it? Two million, not the dinar, the euro. That's right, you know that. And you all know it, but you pretend you don't know it. Well, they didn't forget where they forgot, but that's how it has to be. If one of us had done it in any way, not that, but anything, we'd have been picked up by the bandits a long time ago. And I don't want to talk about interest. I almost forgot this, and I would take the opportunity, because I don't know when the Assembly will work this way again and we'll discuss some laws in principle, and we'll be up for the Easter holidays, we'll be 25 on Easter Tuesday, inviting all MPs, not only the SRS MPs, we invite you all, we'll send Tomislav Nikolic an invitation and the highest state leadership and everyone in the country, and we invite all citizens, we invite you all to come to the Easter Academy, so one big Serbian evening for Kosovo and Metohija, where we'll have an outstanding cultural and artistic programme. We are just someone who appears as an organizer, there will be no political speeches, political advances, donations will be collected for Kosovo and Metohija, where you are all welcome, you are invited and all citizens are welcome. Their entrance will be free, and we'll take care of it, we'll certainly be the biggest donor, but we'll see. And we'd welcome everyone else. Of course, it will have full control over it, it will be clear where the money is going and to what purpose it will be used, but all the people who are poor, who have no money free, can enter the hall and by their presence show how much they care about keeping Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, to preserve our country, to preserve our territory. There will be many stars, and operas, and ballets, and musical scenes of ours, and our theatres, and I think that way you will be able to enjoy it, and we will do something concrete for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. It's at the Sava Center, at 1900 hours it would be good for everyone to come, since we're expecting a lot of pressure around 19.30-20,00 hours that could start. So, you're all welcome, there won't be any political speeches or anything else. The exact same thing, and they're all welcome. There won't be any difference. I'd just like to thank all the MPs for their attention, once again, to the Council of the Broadcasting Agency, so let them accuse me of doing what I don't know. Then you'll see whose pressures are stronger. Here, from the assembly pay phone, I say publicly and openly that it would be shameful and unfavourable for those who are the worst in the Serbian media sky to get national good and national wealth, such as the frequency for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is B-92. And since I know that they will get it, then every MP of our party will come out to ask, excuse me, and who has put pressure on you. Well, you have to get it, although it's clear to everyone that you don't deserve it by law, by justice, by morality, by no means at all, without talking about professionalism, objectivity or anything else. I think after that these people will once have to appear before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chose them. Let them think carefully, let them do their job as they please, but let them bear in mind that the citizens of Serbia are the ones who should give their court, not someone's embassies, not someone's money. Does this bother you when I'm talking? Does it bother you that much? Why don't you go outside? Get off the phone if you feel like it. I don't mind what I'm going to do and how kids are going to be raised, but think about how many kids are going to be raised. Last night at 9:00 a.m., a child asks me - Dad, is this what they say all Serbs are killing them, that we're doing this. I have to explain to him, son, they're liars, it's the most corrupt anti-Serbian TV, and they killed Serbs like that. There's no one to tell him. Think about the generations we've been doing and what all our children will be able to think and what's going to happen. You do what you want and as much as you want, so take us down to an increase of 50% and more, and because you're so smart, and because you love so much, so you take yourself down to 2%, and 2.3% I've gone a little too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25845	National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25846	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, given that today we are talking about a proposal to amend the Telecommunications Act, and this law has mostly come down to a new story about Mobtel and, of course, an even more exclusive story that needs to be heard about many things that would explain how the process takes place, and that is the story of the allocation of national frequencies that entered its final phase, and I would like to use my time to say something about these exactly. I must note that, although the process after that political storm, I claim that it was a political ujdura against Mobtel and the owner of the company, above all because he was a man who became the party's political leader who gained popularity above the many parties that make up the ruling coalition and became a problem as such. I didn't notice that there was a problem at a time when he went to Banja Luka, as a respected member of the delegation led by Vojislav Kostunica in 2001, and I didn't even notice that Mobtel was a problem when he was helping the real government that entered the third year of its term. He became a problem when he gained respectable support in Serbia's electoral body. However, given that the whole story has entered some judicial flows, as well as most Serbian citizens, I will be patient and will wait to see what the country's judicial authorities will say about these cases as well. Like other citizens of Serbia, I am concerned about what will happen if these judicial authorities, newly elected judges, the judiciary cleared of corrupt judges, say the state has conducted the process against Mobtel in an irregular and illegal manner. Then who will pay for the damage on behalf of Serbian citizens and the taxes paid by Serbian citizens, and who will be responsible for it. Here are a few questions for those who today represent the state of PTT and the government. First of all, in a chronological series of liquidations of Mobtels, the conclusion of a business-technical co-operation agreement with Kosovo businessman Ekrem Luka is a significant moment, and the whole affair has begun. The license is not granted to Ekrem Luki, as claimed during the media for a month, but Mobikos has committed to maintain the network and the devices of Mobtel, as well as to sell network cards 063. Could this act be marked as an act of high treason by the Serbian government? Could the conclusion of a similar contract by Telekom with the White Eagle company, a certain Kosovo businessman, Arbed Arifi, via Gamma Electronics, also be treated as an act of high treason? I believe neither of them can be treated as an act of high treason, as it is a simple business-technical co-operation contract, related to the construction and maintenance of the Telekom system in Kosovo. Can any Serbian product on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which may be purchased by former KLA members, be treated as an act of high treason, by the same principle? The whole story was exclusively aimed at opening a propaganda action of political reckoning with one who, not the owner of Mobtel, but the president of one party, with respectable support, according to public opinion surveys, in Serbia's electoral body. In 2003. BK Trade submitted a request for arbitration in Zurich for the establishment of the owner's stake in Mobtel, deeply convinced that 51% of the company was owned by Bogoljub Karic and other representatives of Mobtel, i.e. BK Trade was in fact the majority owner of Mobtel. In 2004, in front of the same arbitration council, PTT also launched the dispute, arguing that he is the majority owner. As a citizen of Serbia, I also believe many, with great curiosity, I would like to see what would be the final decision of the arbitration court in Zurich, which, as far as I'm aware, is the only one who is worthy of a verdict. However, it also seems to me that PTT, in agreement with Martin Schlaff, who is now a desirable businessman and co-worker of the Serbian government, is in contrast to the period close to us, when he was very unwanted and animated through the diaries and national televisions and other informative shows as an Austrian Jew, a speculant who is trying to earn something here in black that doesn't really belong to him, and now he's a desirable partner in the Serbian government, so I'm curious how his status has changed so rapidly from unwanted to desirable. So, PTT Serbia is now ready to drop any claims of establishing ownership before the arbitration in Zurich. Which is why, if things stand the way you do, gentlemen here representing PTT and the government of Serbia, you claim to stand. It's an amazing fact that the license was taken away only from Mobtel for a contract with Mobikos, but not to Telekom for a similar contract with White Eagle, concluded through the mediating company Gamma Electronics. Also, it is possible that the license is taken away by the Serbian government, when it is the authority of the body's independence, called the Republic Broadcasting Agency. After this incredible collapse over Mobtel, I believe that most Serbian citizens are interested in whether Mobtel has made only Karic rich, and the fact is he has certainly earned quite the money, or the state has benefited from this undoubtedly successful Serbian company. The public is also very curious to know what was the business of another mobile operator, which was mostly owned by the state. As a minority partner, the state was able to achieve its interest in Mobtel in three ways: by paying dividends, by growing company value, combined with partial dividend payments, and by growing company value. The state of Mobtel has not received dividends, which is why the Serbian government is demanding 52m euros based on dividends. It is interesting that Martin Schlaff, BK Trade's buyer, is expected to pay 2.1 billion dinars, or 24m euros, after reaching an agreement, which means he is free of charge. PTT, or the state since its founding, did not invest in the development of Mobtel, according to the majority company. When Mobtel was sold last year, despite this behaviour by the Serbian government, which significantly brought down the total value of Mobtel, it was estimated to have been worth at least 500m euros. Today, when the state plans to sell the Mobtel, the initial price in the tender will be, according to the finance minister, 800m euros, of which 320m euros will apply to the license, and 480m euros in property and equipment of Mobtela. That price can also be increased multiple times. The key question is whether the state went badly with Mobtel, if it invested $6.23m in 1994, and the value of its work today is estimated at hundreds of millions of euros and even several billion euros. If we add lost profits to initial investments, i.e. dividends estimated at 52m euros, it is easy to conclude that the state can make between the minimum 600m euros from the sale of Mobtel, according to government ministers, and billions of euros. In the past 11 years, the state has been a passive owner who has not invested at all in the "Mobtel", which means that nothing has affected the rise in the value of the Mobtel capital. Can today's Serbian authorities give a similar example of such an increase in state property, where the government was responsible for the business. Mosttel had nearly one and a half million subscribers at its peak, the state was paid an average of two dollars fixed for each new subscriber. This obligation did not apply to another mobile operator, which means that PTT "Telecom" treated as its own company, which enjoyed all the privileges of state-owned enterprises. You wouldn't say "Mobtel" had a position like that. Today, the "Mobtel" has about 800,000 subscribers, i.e. significant market potential, which will make it very attractive to sell what is planned. The total monthly income of Mobtela ranged from 7m to 13m euros, to which the country was paid a corresponding tax. Also, taxes and contributions to employee earnings have been paid to the state, estimated at hundreds of millions of euros. What was the business of Telecom during all that time, which was founded in 1997, three years after the Mobtel. In 2003, the AD Telecom Serbia, for which I have full data, was one of the largest public enterprises in Serbia, had 12.2% of the basic assets, 11.3% of the capital, achieved 9.2% of the total income, 45.5% of the profits and employed more than 13.5% of the workers, and 9% of the employees in 13 major public enterprises in Serbia. In 2003, AD Telecom Serbia had 1.8 million mobile phone subscribers, was partially liquidated, since its obligations were practically not serviced, as it paid off suppliers after 819 days. In 2003, a net profit of 6.7 billion dinars was achieved, but the company AD Telecom Serbia reported a accumulated loss of 14.6 billion dinars, close to 200m euros. Total business revenues amounted to around 44 billion dinars, or about 500m euros. The salaries at Telecom were twice the average in the economy. Finally, a quite logical question arises when mobile telephony is really such a profitable job, as it is claimed that Karici has made big money, why Telecom Serbia has not achieved a positive business over a six-year period. The Serbian public rightly wonders, if it is understood that the state expects a 52m-euro dividend from Mobtel, is it logical to expect the same thing from Telecom. Unconfirmed data suggests that Telecom dividend paid PTT for the first time in 2004, and you, Mr. Ivanji, correct me if I'm wrong with the data. Because the state-owned company, Telekom, seems to have no obligation to achieve a positive business, or anywhere near what is expected of the "Mobtel" as a completely similar enterprise. These are the logical things that are being set up. I think the answers to these questions, if you're not ready to give them, they're logical, because they're double arches all the time. Here I speak unbiasedly, not as a political partner of a man who has a party, which I am, I am asking a very rational question, which I and the citizens of Serbia need to get an answer to. Also, I have to say that from the moment the extra profit collection process started, when the first DOS government came to power after 2000, as a citizen, I was very happy and cheered for the process to succeed. Unfortunately, with a selective approach, incompetence, or who knows what reasons, the whole process has been compromised. Turns out it was only Karic who paid 90 percent of that extra profit. There was no charge as much as Dinkic promised. It all came down, the whole book, one letter, and after that, it's all going down, it's going down, it's going back, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going to be a whole book, it's going to be a As I am now, as an MP, as a citizen of Serbia, I cannot take back once again the selective, two-way approach to Serbia's detachment, as I see Karic, who sat in government, being persecuted. And Beko also sat in the government, which, if you forgot, participated in one of the huge robberies, as has been said all along, sold Telecom in 1997, which filled the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to feed and bribe the hungry people. He's no longer by chance, now he's a preferred partner who expands Serbian business across the region, who goes to the government to negotiate the sale of private firms. So he's all right. He's not with Karic. With Mr. Miskovic, who in 12 years managed to earn profits, i.e. to reverse three billion euros annually, and boasts of that himself, and has met the criteria for going to the London Stock Exchange. Be careful, for 10-12 years, where black magic can be done in Serbia, in which everyone falls, by making such a successful company to go to the London Stock Exchange. Let's see what the structure of these capitalists, the tycoon looked like before 2000, and what their rise was like after 2000. The information I have, which is completely transparent and public, I can claim that Mr. Miskovic has increased his wealth multiplely. If we have put the "Mobtel" case under the public eye of the judiciary, it is our turn to determine whether there is a monopoly in this country today that is much more serious and is more serious to the citizens of Serbia and their standard, which is a monopoly in the food industry and a monopoly in food retail. Who today has the right to charge the most expensive margins in the environment, in Europe, when they sell food supplies to Serbian citizens? Is Mr. Miskovic obliged to make certain bills, let's say, because his name is mentioned in the already fully famous action of the Network around smuggling and tobacco trade, or he's protected and welcomed in the Serbian government, that for some reason he is congratulated, that he drinks champagne when he sells the bank, that his bank, which we all know, is correcting me again if I'm wrong, "Delta Bank" formerly, and now "Istesa", is worth less by all parameters than the Commercial Bank, and more expensive is sold. What merits Mr. Miskovic has earned your attention, respect and privilege to enter the government whenever he wishes, and not only to enter, but to receive praise whenever he needs it. I have no objection to finally putting a stop to the robbery in Serbia, and to really seeing who got rich, and to the establishment and judicial authorities, so that everything would not be a campaign and an empty story, which would re-demortise both the people and those who fight such a struggle. That, dear gentlemen, can't be a selective approach. Since I am very interested in the story and the assignment of national frequencies, and I have to say my beliefs or attitude, since I worked as a journalist and on Studio B and BK TV, the Serbian public knows well what I was doing and how I did, I know what stages that television was going through, I know when Mladjan Dinkic was the only one who could promote his book "Economics of Destruction" when no one else wanted to receive it and interview him about it. I also know about 1996 and 1997, when only BK television reported student protests. I know, too, when the owner went to beg Milosevic to spare him and not turn off that TV, that TV has been working for more than 10 years. She worked in the hardest of times. The first set standards, I say responsibly because there I was doing, one objective, normal, modern, accurate television, going through ups and downs, being quality more or less. I really don't understand, and here I fully agree with Mr. Alexander Vukic, who spoke on the subject today, that now the same approach, is the same thing -- that in the most difficult times, when he always threatened every moment of the situation that someone could come to you and shut down the television for political reasons, when you had to make various rotten compromises, let's remember how radio Studio B, once perfectly, once completely party-colored, all depends on it, because there was neither regulatory nor an opportunity here to protect you, you and your objective reporting -- so, now it's possible that televisions that have worked for 10 years, that had to bring a ton of documentation to that broadcasting agency and that committee that minor investigators are investigating them, and, let's say, someone who's never done that kind of work. Like Danko Djunic and this team of businessmen, who suddenly wanted to deal with the media, who brought in a folder in the form of good wishes, so she says, "My mother will invest 40 million, my mother will be an objective television, my mother will be the address on that and that number, my mother will hire me so many and so many people from the employment bureau." Let's bet that Aval TV will get the frequency, that Pink TV will get the frequency, do I have to talk about whether Zeljko Mitrovica has earned money in a regular, democratic, market way or as a full Mirjana Markovic? Let the public answer that. So I'm telling you that the frequency is going to get Aval's television, it's not going to get Studio B, it's not going to get BK TV, but it's going to get Aval's TV on-- my moms. You see if it's a struggle for a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25847	Do any of the other authorised representatives, as referred to in Article 93. Rules of Procedure, reporting for word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Pause until 15.05.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We've completed the primary search on item two of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT SERVICES OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND ORGANISATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES FOR 2002, 2003. And 2004. You received a proposal for a decision from the Finance Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee want to speak? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT SERVICES OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND ORGANISATION OF THE COMMUNICATION SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FOR 2005 You received a proposal for a decision from the Finance Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee want to speak? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the representative of Proposer Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a closing statement? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25849	Under the Law on the Budget System, which was adopted in 2002, it is an obligation to make the final budget account an external audit. The transitional norms stipulate that an external auditor does so since the establishment of an independent state audit. This is for the first time an external audit of the final budget account and, in line with the budget calendar for the adoption of new budgets, it is necessary to discuss in the Assembly the final budget account for the previous year, done with the opinion of the external auditor. The Finance Committee, since we do not yet have a state audit to be set up in the next few weeks, has considered all the necessary acts, in collaboration with state authorities and in collaboration with international institutions, has prepared all the necessary documentation for the launch of such a serious tender, especially taking into account that we do not have that kind of experience in Serbia at this time. For the first time, the final budget account is given for external audit. One very serious job has been done. You have before you a proposal for a decision adopted unanimously by the Finance Committee. As with the previous agenda, we have proposed to make a decision to call two tenders: one for an external audit of the final account from 2002 to 2004, and the other for an external audit for 2005. We expect that this job will be completed in May or June of the month, that we will have before us a decision on the selection of an external auditor. According to international review standards, there must be two auditors. International standards predict that one firm can only audit a certain final account for three years in a row. Already during the debate on the 2007 budget, we will have before us a final account for 2005, done and externally audited. It is one significant shift in the control of public finances and it is another important thing that this assembly has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-18-0.u25850	Thank you, Mr. Beard. The assembly has again shown that it is ready when an act arrives, to put it on the agenda immediately, to speed it up, to enable all this Mr. Obradovic spoke of in detail. I thank you for your responsibility. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. According to the Rules of Procedure, from the end of the principle debate under one law, it must take at least 24 hours to discuss in particular. The first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Churches and Religious Communities, the principle debate ended last night at 21.50. Compared to that, it is not possible to move to a debate in particular until tomorrow at 10.00 in the morning. I welcome once again the young from Kragujevac. You've seen what the procedure looks like. Thank you all for your responsibility. Tomorrow at 10.00 debate in details of the 1st item of the agenda.
