ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26560	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all a good day. We continue the work of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their voting cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that we can agree on a working day. I have no notice of the prevention of any MPs attending the sitting. One notice. You have received the resignations of Goran Paunovic and Ksenija Milivojevic as MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations has been the case under Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the elections ended, for MPs Goran Paunovic and Ksenija Milivojevic, elected from the election list G17 Plus - Miroljub Labus, on the day of his resignation. And this time I have to point out, as did the last time, that it was about MPs who made a significant contribution by doing their job and thanking them. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: – The selection of Members of the PROGRAMME COMMITTEE OF THE SERBIA PROGRAMME BUDGET You have received a list of candidates for the members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, which has been established by the Committee of the National Assembly for Culture and Information and the Decision on the selection of candidates for the members of the Programme Committee of the Radiodifuse Institute of Serbia, who has adopted the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. You've received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information. I remind you that according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: SRS - one hour 36 minutes, DSS - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, DS - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, MEP for European Serbia - 6 minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs and three independent MPs, five minutes on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information want the word, MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. Serbian Radical Party, Aleksandar Vukic. Please, members of the Legislative Committee, the session is right next door. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first time since a new government has been established in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in such a brutal way that the principles agreed upon at the beginning of this call are trampled out. It was then agreed, which should be respected by all parliamentary groups, as well as by the fact that mandates belong to political parties and, as you have seen, we did not abuse them at any time, but treated them very honestly, so we expected that from you. In fact, the Committee on Culture and Information discussed for days who are representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to sit in the Programme Council of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute and of course should be those six representatives and another 12, a total of 18. For the sake of the public, the SRS has asked that, in accordance with the agreement, in accordance with what we have achieved in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we have a proportional representation on each committee, we ask it no more than what it belongs to, not something else, but only what the citizens have given it in the elections. We have requested two members of the Programme Council of Six, in line with a third of the parliamentary mandates that we have at our disposal in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, the proposal of the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, the proposal of the majority representatives, although I think there have been some attempts and a different agreement to make, was that this goes on parity basis, from each parliamentary group to one. What does that mean, respected citizens? This means that the SRS would have one representative in the Programme Council, just as Meho Omerovic would be one, or just as SRS one as SPO or SPS, or from New Serbia or I don't know which other parliamentary groups that have three or four times fewer MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Although we have warned, one session of the Committee on Culture and Information has been suspended, further consultations have been said. I don't know if these additional consultations were carried out, Tomislav Nikolic told me there were none, just a repeat session, a list of six representatives of the National Assembly for the Radiodifuse Institute Programme Council was voted on. I'm asking you to let us know if you're pulling that list or not. I invite you, because the conventions will be very, very serious by the work of the National Assembly, so serious that you'll be surprised. Whether it's going to be leaving all the boards or some even more drastic sanctions, or our decision, we'll get to know you about it. We're not gonna let anything like this happen. We will not allow it because we have the most negative experience in the work of individual media in Serbia. Because only SRS MPs and members of the SRS leadership were exposed to the most brutal campaign of individual media. To cut our heads off, as Radio B 92 says. Do you want that campaign against Serbian radicals to continue in that way? Do you want to continue the campaign of stupidity and lies that Toma Nikolic killed the girls in Antino, Vukic wanted to kill his own mother and I don't know what? Is that the goal, which is why there are no Serbian radicals in this program council or does it bother us that there are a third of us here, so there can't be two or two, either way, whatever you want? So, please, representatives of the majority, Mr. President, if you're still behind me, please, that's what you say out of courtesy, and otherwise I won't ask you anything, the head of the largest parliamentary group of authorities, to think again about what they're doing, because if something like this is accepted, and we're still telling you that the other members of this program board of broadcasting institutions are all party-oriented people. What do you think? That we're all idiots, that we don't know who Nenad Manojlovic is? It says sportsman, water polo representative. It's an exponent of DS. And what are we? Little kids, sucking oars, what? We're all idiots around here, and you're all very smart. Jovan Kolundji's top artist, all right, I don't mind, but a member of the DSS and an exponent of the DSS. We all have no idea what you're writing here, we're all idiots, and you're very smart. You can do anything, you can do anything, you can vote anything, absolutely anything. I'm just telling you what can happen as an answer, and then you think about it, and don't let anyone say it to you anywhere or in any way. This just went by in a hurry. Apparently, someone thought they were going to take good positions in what the people are still calling RTS. Account, let's get as many coalitions prepared as possible with yellow thieves, both in such a way and in the media, and there are no more problems. Nicely prepared. This Nenad Manojlovic, a man has more political functions than any SRS politician, than anyone on this side of the assembly hall. There aren't any people. Tell me, who is it from the SRS that has more political functions than Nenad Manojlovic, the DS? You don't know because there isn't. Is he a member of the Olympic Committee? Wherever there's money, there's someone from the DS. Now you here, uh, this prominent athlete, this prominent actor, and we all chimpanzees all over the trees, we climb up every day, so we can't even see what's going on and how it's done. You underestimate the intelligence of Serbian citizens – listen, says six representatives from the Serbian Parliament. The citizens of Serbia have all six representatives from all possible parliamentary groups, but there are only none from the SRS. They wanted to give us one, just as much as the one who has 10 or 20 or five MPs. Where's justice, where's justice, where's proportionality, where's what we agreed on? That's what we agreed at the beginning of the National Assembly, so come out and tell me I'm lying if that's not true. Where is it? Where's the deal? Because you're a little ticklish here, so where on the programming board or the programming board are now to put up with some Serbian radical or someone close to the SRS on this programming board. That's all you'd be missing in your life. To ask what's got so many Srebrenicas, which doesn't even have a little Bratun. Or to ask a question -- is all the media in Serbia supposed to look like B 92? Is it because you're afraid to say something about it? Is it because all Serbia is afraid to go public and say -- it's not a professional medium, it's not an objective medium, it's not an impartial medium. On the contrary, it's all the opposite. Because you're worried about how someone's gonna attack you? Those should only exist, which the Priors will attack one political party. Here's your proof. I'm also asking again the Broadcasting Agency Council, let's see, whoever gets the national frequency, he must have an objective, balanced approach. The show "Cagefinger", both on the radio and on television, has been broadcast 13 times since the beginning of the year, only since the beginning of the year, 13 times have been the guests of this thieving yellow company DS. Not once, no one from the SRS. Five times from the DSS. Not once, no one from the SRS. It's no problem, he doesn't have to go there, because when he leaves, we can't talk there. They're racing who's going to curse us more than once because it turns out to be a bigger professional, much more objective and incomparably better journalist. Is that the goal of what you've come up with for us? What did you want, Mr. President, with a proposal like this? What did you want with this proposal? To humiliate us here? To say, you're monkeys, and we're going to adopt what comes to mind. We are not monkeys, and neither are the citizens of Serbia, who chose MPs, such. Maybe we're not as smart as you are, but we're not so stupid, that you're selling us stuff like this here, and you think it's just gonna go away. It won't, ladies and gentlemen. (President: Use another 10 minutes? I use it, Mr. President. So, I ask you and I ask you to take care of this, because your behaviour, that is, the eventual acceptance and decision-making of this programme council and the programming committee, will bring great problems in the functioning of the National Assembly and can pour a lot of things into the streets of Serbia. It's a simple principle, pure principle like the sun. Either something will work the way we agreed at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, two, two and a half years ago, how long it was or not. Because if you think -- if we have a nice B 92, we're going to get Fox, we're going to get RTS, it's under our control, we're going to insert the "yellow" as much as possible, to know which side it's going to go to, and if there's problems about Kosovo and Metohija and anything else in Serbia, to know that there's not a lot of talk about capitulation, about occupation, I don't know what. All right, Kosovo, what's now is Milosevic's fault, it's St. Peter Cetinski's fault, who knows who'd blame you all, in all ways, and therefore it's necessary to adopt this composition of the programming board and the program council. That's all. I don't see any other reason why such a thing would be necessary. Is there any TV you know about, of those that got the national frequency, that we have some kind of power, power? There isn't. We don't need that. We're just looking for relatively fair conditions for everyone. We're just asking that those who are the most numerous in our people are not being persecuted, we're just asking that they have the right to say something different to you, to say something different to you, that there is someone in Serbia who will ask you how someone could have retired the colonel at 40 or less than 40 years old just because he was at Milosevic's funeral. That's not what any television has released. No TV on any news show has published a question about how you fired Jova Djoga's wife and daughter, none. Only one television broadcast in its prime information show published a story about investment in Novi Sad Termopower Plant. And then there were all kinds of unfortunate people who said, "He doesn't know this one, he doesn't know that one." And where does the law say he has to know what law it says? You're saying that the biggest Russian firm has a problem, that's what you're trying to say, and you can't say it out loud and clearly. Say it, say it loud and clear that the Russian ambassador is like this or the one that showed up here. Don't run to the press, run to the press, let's tell you, they don't know this and what, it didn't happen, what are you talking about? So, because you have a problem because your biggest investment so far in Serbia was $50 million Bol Beijing (Ball Packing) in Zemun, and now it's going to be 609 million. And instead of looking forward to applauding, because Serbia is going to get something, Serbia is going to make money, no, it's wrong for you, so you're saying, it's a political marketing SRS through its dirty media. Whether or not political marketing SRS, it is money for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. I know you're all powerful, that the government can do anything. I know how it goes, and that story with this program board, there's Milovan Mitrovica, kissing them mother, where you've bought them all. And also Cedomir Petrovic, well, he was doing something more serious, so he wasn't in Tadic's campaign? It's still very serious. Is there anyone else that he was in Tadic's campaign? And Lazar Boskovic in the biography has a member of the DS. Well, are you setting up another DS board? What the hell are you people doing here? Are you kidding us? You're screwing with the citizens of Serbia. What do you need, the DS's backup board to become a broadcasting board? That can't go away, now I'm telling you it can't go through. Vote, you will see that in three days you will return and cannot pass. I guarantee you that will happen, vote, show how strong you are, in three days you will return to the agenda. I'm telling you that. Listen, the DS's main board is to move a little into the program board. They're the ones who couldn't get into the highest body of the DS, into this presidency, because there are now these big thieves, big thieves and criminals, so there's no room. Now they've solved some of these little things, let's set them up on the programming boards and on the programming councils, to support the future government of Tadic-Kosutnica. Oh, no, you don't. Just make sure you don't recalculate in all that. Let me remind you, first you said, we're not going to go over 5%, then 10%, then 15%, then 20%, then 30%, then 35%, and now you're not going to say 40%, wait another month, and you're going to talk, and 40% is not just scary not to be 50%, and then 50% isn't that far. Then watch where the governments are going to form and how it's going to work for you. From these boards and councils, you won't have anything left. You, representatives of the government, think carefully, because we are a very correct opposition, people who think about Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. We never went against the state and never went against the law. We never wanted to do anything by force, or to burn down congregations, or burn down television, or invite citizens into any kind of mess. We've always abstained from it, and when people call on us now, I listen to daily criticism of ordinary people who say, "Why don't you call on the street, why don't you ask the people out on our streets?" We are silent, because for such a thing you must have a goal, and we are not meant to force ourselves into power, as you have come. We want to come to power with a pen and paper, as the citizens of Serbia want. We ask you to act in accordance with the agreement and not to force us to resort to a different kind of political action, because we suffer, if we have to endure on one anti-Serbian television, that we are murderers, psychopaths, lunatics, like this, and that they cut our heads off. Like he said, he's gonna cut off Nikolic and Wolf's heads, but first he's gonna cut them off, put them in acid to cut our heads off, then expose them to the museum. He says he'd get a million pounds for that. That's what some famous artist said, I forgot his name, I'll bring you a later debate, he expects a million pounds, imagine, to cut my head down. It would be too much, let's just cut off his head and it's not too bad, and if he cut it down, it's not very nice, it's not human and it's not moral. That's your national frequency, that's your B92. You're all thinking the same thing I'm saying, but that's why you gave the price of the building to rent; at which price, why don't you go out and say it. But I know, so I'll tell you. I've got the data until six months ago, I expect the next days and to this day to get it. Well, I'll tell you who pays their wages, because they don't do very well, but it doesn't really matter. The important thing is how privatisation was done there and how much money. To whom we will cut off the head if it appears at a public auction: the son of Radislav Rodic was threatened by the decapitation of the head if he shows up at the auction. The minister personally participated, attended the auction. It's like they threatened to cut off other people's hands to participate in Novi Popovac, your coalition partners, those you've put here on the back-up board of RTS, they've threatened to cut off their hands and that's what you're after now. They only deal there by cutting off heads, hands and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26562	Please, Mr. Wolfie, I'm asking you to cut through the discussion at the end, because the twenty first minutes are up, and the MPs are asking you not to throw it away. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26563	I'm not cutting anything, it's cutting down yours, Mr. President, nobody's throwing me, I'm enjoying talking to the MPs, and I can see that they find it interesting, and it'll be interesting in Serbia, too, if you don't behave according to the agreement, believe me. So, once again, I call on you not to vote for this backup board of DS and DSS, because this reserve main committee cannot function and will neither be adopted nor accepted. So you have full guarantees that that's how it's gonna be. As far as the program council is concerned, it's a nice one for you, the MPs are gathered, and there's not a single Serbian radical, you've come up with it well, you're doing it well, but it won't be able to pass. He may want to go to the National Assembly, but once again, it is better to stop the debate immediately and say that you will appear here with another proposal and in a different way to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs, otherwise we will enter very important political turbulence, and I am not sure that you would like it and that you would like to see what the people and citizens of Serbia think about your authority. We never wanted it, although it is a democratic method of political action, because we have usually brought our actions down to parliamentary struggle. If you force us, we'll share democratically, in all other ways, always calmly and dignifiedly, but I'm not sure it'll be easy and pleasant for you. But we're not prepared to let you leave the country to thieves and backup boards of the DS, not your committees, not anyone else. Serbia belongs to its citizens and the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, if it has your representatives, representatives of these thieving parties, it must also have representatives of fair parties and most of the people, which is the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26564	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that there has been no application for a word in writing, and since there are no written statements, I would like to ask once again whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Having carried out a single search, the National Assembly will, in the voting day, decide on the election of members of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. We're going to work in detail. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Petar Cvetković, Vladimir Homan, Jovan Palalić, Meho Omerović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Miljko Četrović, Milorad Mirčić, Ljubomir Kragović, Vjerica Radeta, Milovan Radovanović, Milan Stevović, Bora Kutić, Sreto Perić and Djordje Mamula. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs: Ljiljana Nestorović to Articles 70, 73 and 323, George Mamula to Articles 7, 15, 22, 254, 328, 343, 350, 359, 366, 380, 390, 392, 399, 404, and 433 and Vladimir Homan to Articles 249, 323 and 326. Proposal for a Code. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You've received reports from the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee shall be, in accordance with Article 144(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal and technical order of text of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Articles 205, 206, 255, 271, 278, 361 and 476). Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill's proposal in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26565	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26566	Mr. President, I expected Minister Stojkovic to appear first, so that you will not speed up this synopsis by which you have brought us into discussion in particular about this very important law, but at present he is not a colleague of Zoran Krasic in the O.R., and he has filed one of the first amendments, and they are sufficient, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, who are talking about the presumption, or presummition of innocence, or what is in criminal law and criminal proceedings, those who are convicted of some criminal act, and first of all by lawyers and lawyers, most importantly to be respected, which is not the case in our country, many such cases have been particularly during the time of the monstrous, anti-constitutional and illegal actions of "Sabla". As one of the members of the Defence and Security Committee, along with colleagues who periodically received reports, I saw that they were also those people who were detained, and there were over 12,000 of them, without the assumption that they were innocent, because no one is a criminal, nor is anyone who committed any crime until a judicial verdict proves it. Unfortunately, our judiciary works that way, and above all, politicians who are exponents of the judiciary and who, in the right sense, are able to judge everyone and everyone by their statements, and say that the man is guilty, just because they don't like him and just because he's someone who's hurt them somewhere or someone who's fiercely fighting crime and corruption, who's the most pronounced in the DS. When we talk about the presumption of innocence, and we put in the context of the story that one of the largest tycoons in Serbia is Dragan Gilas, director of the National Office, who makes huge money from month to month, and in fact sells air, empty cans, we can only assume that he is responsible for certain crimes. But when we say that, we do not say it by heart, unlike some who come out cold dead, ministers from the government of Serbia say every day -- it is General Ratko Mladic's fault, which he does not surrender, let Serbia save the people, let him go to The Hague tribunal. When those who say so are so smart, especially Minister Loncar, I have not heard this Minister Stojkovic, who is not here, so Minister Popovic, and others, ask themselves a little where the presumption of innocence is in the case of all the Hague prisoners so far. If you are making and already introducing such a law on the criminal proceedings of an institution that exists in Anglo-Saxon law and which are at an evil vote, because as such you have served for experiments on Serbs trapped there and when the case of the already murdered Slobodan Milosevic, and on the case of our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, you have had the situation, and it has been four years since our president has been in the Hague case, and his trial is not beginning, that such traitors and such, I may say freely, mediacrites, in the right sense of the words of immoral people, and the representatives are mostly these "yellow" organizations, appear in this "Cazar" and in some other media and say - he is guilty, let him go and let him prove his guilt. Who is he, whether he's a national MP, and above all, the MP, whether he's a citizen, that according to his profession, anything, that he has a primary school, that he's a doctor of legal science, that he's a scientist, that I don't know what he's allowed to say and that he's guilty until the moment the guilt is proven by a judicial verdict? Mr. Zoran Krasic, above all as a lawyer and as someone who assumed innocence in the case of our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, has been engaged for three years, as one of the holders of this job on the defence team Dr. Vojislav Seselj, repeatedly and has pointed out this example and other examples of practice as a very bad message to those who are just so easily talking about someone's guilt. So he wanted to make a necessary addition in Article 3 at point 1). We see that the government is not, and in our opinion it should accept that amendment, since it is not even a minister, I call on the assembly majority to do so in the voting day. Pay attention to what Mr. Zoran Krasic really wanted, to supplement, so that there would be no doubt and that it would be a clear point 1) of Article 3, where the assumption of innocence is spoken of. This point reads: 1) everyone will be considered innocent until his guilt (and then Mr Krasic added) "for a crime" (and for whatever it is for a crime; therefore it is only too much and repairs the essence of this article by this amendment, Mr Krasic) does not establish a judicial decision by the competent court. This way, there will be one void, with all these abuses and ignorance, and I would say pathological hatred, which comes from those who do not see only their political opponents in the SRS but see some other people, and we are primarily high moral and honorable people, and when we speak and when we defend everyone's right to defend himself honestly and honestly, and when we talk about that nobody is guilty until proven guilty by a judicial verdict, we always think if, God forbid, one of us finds ourselves in that situation, and so is every other citizen or representative of another political party. But if justice and justice were long ago, this first item of the agenda and that former Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure would have been applied to many thieves and criminals in this country, and that is what the people most expect and what they require of the authorities, above all from the Serbian judiciary, to do much more effectively to determine and break these criminal and thieving corruption clans. When we warned you for so many years who was the President of the Trade Court, Mr. Goran Kljajevic, and all that thieving click around him, you laughed. There were no committees at the session of the Serbian Parliament. And now he's going to defend himself and say, and he's right, he's innocent until the moment he's proven guilty. In view of this, of the pile of material and of the affairs in which he is involved, and of all that we have received, and of the violation of the law when he was the President of the Trade Court, to him and to how one good punishment follows for all the misdemeanours he has committed. Those others who walk freely and continue to rob and kidnap, such as this Dragan Gilas and similar to him from the criminal lobby of the DS, should be assured that one day this law and all other laws will be applied to them. I thank and propose that you accept this amendment in the voting day, i.e. one truly true addition to point 1) in Article 3 submitted by Mr Zoran Krasic, MP of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26567	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26568	You know that fellow Jojic, as federal justice minister, has worked on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted at the time of the existence of the SRJ in both homes of the Federal Assembly. And it was the fruit of a long-standing work, first of all, because of the fact that he was a man who, in practice, was a lawyer first of all, and as an extremely recognised lawyer, he saw what it was necessary to change in that previous law, then in 99 years, it seems to me, before the MPs with that bill. And now it is absolutely clear that because the applicant wanted at all costs to have the Code of Criminal Procedure in this form, and because it was a trail of this established national strategy, the training of courts, the Law of Courts, as one system law, that you as a new authority wanted to completely change this law, to introduce these new institutes, and for a reason, Jojic asked that Article 4 of the proposed law be deleted. The rule of doubt in favour of the defendant, Article 4, which says: 'If, even after obtaining all the evidence available and carrying out them in criminal proceedings, only doubts about the existence of a significant criminal offence or about the facts of which it depends on the application of some of the provisions of the Criminal Code or of this Code, the court or another competent authority will always make a decision that is more favourable to the defendant. ''A colleague Jojic believes that ''the introduction of this rule in Article 4, which is that, in the event of a doubt, judgment in favour of the accused, was not defined in the existing law because the legislator, not without reason, felt that, with the principle assessment of evidence based on free jurisprudence, had become overemphasised and in a certain way lost importance, because the transition in a new way of assessing the evidence to the judge no longer required a specific rule that some of the facts, which the evidence provided could not be determined by the mark of certainty, could have been considered unproven, but could now come to the same result, relying on new rules and evaluations of evidence. However (as fellow Jojic wrote it in his explanation), the mistake is not to plan to introduce the said principle into the code (it has been entered) and some other modern laws on criminal proceedings, e.g. Russian, but because the proposal was wrongly formulated, as explained in the explanation, 'in a broad way, so that it refers to both the court and the other competent authorities in criminal proceedings (mainly the police, in the previous investigation and the public prosecutor in the investigation), and its application is not only related to the provisions of material, but also criminal and procedural law'. On the contrary, the rule refers only to the facts to be determined by the mark of certainty, therefore, to those which are important for the decision-making process, not to other decisions relating to another, a lower degree of conviction (which may be created during the process). In order to make a decision to open an investigation (no matter whether it is brought by an investigative judge or a public prosecutor) or e.g. The arrest solution? Then how could it be brought? ) By calling for a rule that, in the event of a suspicion, the defendant, as understood in the proposal, could never have been initiated. ''This is why Jojic suggested that this Article 4 be deleted, because according to the ''Contemporary Codes of Criminal Procedure of some countries, the suspicion of the existence of facts that make the mark of a criminal offence and of which it depends on the application of some of the provisions of the criminal law is settled by a verdict in a way that is more favourable to the defendant. So it's not about any decision, as the bill puts it, it's only about judgment. ''That is why we propose that this member be deleted and the amendment submitted by counterpart Petar Jojic be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26569	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26570	I asked you if this amendment was not accepted by the Government, but as soon as the story is spoken, it means it is not accepted. It is clear what the promoter wanted this member to regulate, however, it is so foolishly written that it bothers more than it uses. Here's why. Only the elements of the criminal acts prescribed by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia are discussed here. But what to do, you know that under the pressure of Mladjan Dinkic, we have prescribed another crime in almost every one of his laws. Does this mean that these crimes are not covered by this article? If you read what's written, then those pieces aren't covered? If you use a little logic, and then you get a little sick of your head, then you'd have to cover those parts too. Here's the question of what's more favourable to the defendant. The third, most importantly, is that this formulation calls into question the presummation of innocence. If the Constitution and other regulations guarantee the presummation of innocence, what did the promoter want with this formulation? In case of suspicion, it goes in favor of the defendant. Well, in the event of doubt, he has no consequences. He is guilty only if he who persecutes him and if the court finds that there is a criminal responsibility of an individual. So it's quite clear what the Proposer wanted with Article 4. But this formulation calls into question the presummation of innocence. Because it says here: "If even after obtaining all the evidence available and carrying out them in criminal proceedings (when it comes to carrying out evidence in criminal proceedings, then by this law you know and the criminal proceedings themselves begin the moment when a citizen acquires the status of a suspect; means, when the police call him and says - good day, you are a suspect, then a criminal procedure has already begun; it is a good thing that in later terms it is finally known when the criminal proceedings have started, because under the existing law it is another date; now it is known, when the suspect's first appearance in the status of the suspect has taken place; I read further) it remains only a suspicion." Well, there's always that suspicion, as soon as you've called someone, there's a suspicion, but if that suspicion is established and if that doubt can rise to the level of truth in a criminal procedure, that's another question. So this formulation only raises the constitutional category, which is presumptious innocence. Here it is about to be explained – yes, he is innocent and if there is any doubt. He's innocent until proven guilty. So I was just surprised, I expected the government to accept this amendment, because the point of this amendment is to throw out what could cause several different interpretations. I know about why this is going. This goes because there are people who think it's not enough to just say it - the presummation of innocence is guaranteed to every person, but it is necessary to give some instruction on what to do in case of doubt. In the event of doubt, nothing is done by the court, releases responsibility. The D.A. is giving up prosecution, in case there's only any suspicion. This formulation then opens another dilemma: as long as there may be doubt. From the point of view of logic, doubt exists until criminal proceedings are completed. Let me make it a little bit simpler. You'll later, I don't know any 200 and some member, have one provision that's completely insane. The public prosecutor is required to appeal against the acquittal. What's the point of justice? If the prosecutor doesn't make a complaint, then it is believed that whoever was damaged is excluded as a subsidiary prosecutor. It's crazy. We need more in the whole criminal law matter to expand the number of cases when a man can prosecute privately. We now have one percent only procedures in private lawsuits: insult, slander, mild physical injury. There may be another piece, but I don't believe it. Anything else, public prosecutor on official duty, so if he won't, then damaged as a subsidiary prosecutor. This concept that you promote requires a change of the Criminal Code, to allow an individual to pursue a private lawsuit or to submit a directly accused proposal for a greater number of crimes. So, if there's a doubt, and it certainly exists when it comes to appeal. If I'm not satisfied with some verdict, so I'm making a complaint, I doubt it, but here the suspicion is given from the position of the court, the prosecutor and the police. The D.A.'s suspect even when he's given his acquittal, so he complains. That's why it's much better, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment to Article 4, because he can only create confusion, and we understand what he wants to say. He wants to strengthen the presummation of innocence in a very silly way, with one bad formulation, which can cause more problems than benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26571	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26572	I don't know if you've read these amendments, Mr. Minister. Nothing, he doesn't care. If you've read the amendments, then I'd be very interested in why you didn't accept this amendment, because more reason was for the amendment to be accepted than to be rejected. Here's why. It's a member of the 7th that has the title - The rights of the face of the deprived freedom. By international standards, it's a minimum of the rights guaranteed to every person. That minimum right is guaranteed by Article 14. A general act on human rights and all European conventions. Guaranteed. But it's the right thing to do. Now let me not read what is at points 1), 2), 3) and 4), where you say under point 1) (first right) that there is nothing to say, etc., 2) - to take the defender, 3) - to uninterruptedly generalise with the defender, 4) - that the defender attends his hearing, 5) - to request. You're right to interpret as the right to apply. No, he is guaranteed the right to inform persons of the time, place and every change of place of imprisonment, without delay, of his choice. It is not his right to seek, but he who has deprived him of his freedom is obliged to allow him to use that right to be informed. The next item to which we have submitted the amendment, that it requires at any time and at its expense that it should be examined without delay by the doctor. You're interpreting it as the right to request a review. The request is an instrument where he informs, reminds you that I have the right to be examined, and his right to review it. You have the right to submit requests, to keep in touch, because if you went by that logic, then you could say at point 2) to request that the defendant be taken by his order, to demand that he do not have to say anything. You know, it can't be reduced to demand. He, by request, informs that he is using his right, but here a member is written as an absolute norm, something guaranteed. He's guaranteed to be examined by his doctor, and he's not guaranteed to have him examined by a doctor. I expected you to accept this, because it's also falling back from the existing formulation. In the current law, you don't have such a formula. You put in two more requests here, one would be, that's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26573	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26574	Do we, Minister, have the government's position on our amendments or are we discussing them here? (Zoran Stojkovic, from the site: I received one copy. Where is he? Okay, you've won, he's got the president of the DSS parliamentary group, and we who participate in the work and who have submitted amendments are not, but well, it doesn't matter. So, in the principle debate, we debated for a long time and discussed the proposal for this Code of Criminal Procedure. Then we drew your attention to certain things, and among other things, that your parts of the law are unconstitutional. Now here's the first amendment to talk about it. Let me read you article 16 before I start talking about the amendment. Article 16 The Serbian Constitution says: "The person suspected of committing a crime may, on the basis of a decision by the competent court, be detained and detained in custody only if necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings or the safety of people. The duration of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. The detention may take place after the decision of the first-degree court for a maximum period of three months from the day of detention. This deadline may be extended by a decision of the Supreme Court for another three months. If no charges are filed by the end of those deadlines, the defendant shall be released. "Out of this box, Minister, nothing in the law can stand. It's a manners and these days we've often said, almost all the bill proposals we had at this session are contrary to the Constitution, and by some future constitution, some imaginary, imagined. Article 7, The rights of persons deprived of liberty, in paragraph 2, says: ''The persons deprived of liberty without a court's decision must immediately be carried out by a competent investigating judge (this is where the minister should be placed, you have added), except in the case referred to in Article 264(1) of this Code. ''Why do you need that exception and what that exception means to you, I don't know, but I know it's simply not possible, given the cited article 16. The Constitution. Article 264, which is your exception, states in the right position: 'The suspect's deprived freedom under Article 262(1) of this Code, as well as the suspect referred to in Article 260(1) and (3) of this Code, the public prosecutor or police may exceptionally, and for the longest 48 hours since the time of his or her absence of freedom, i.e. a response to a call, temporarily retain, if he considers that there are any of the reasons set out in Article 174(1) of this Code. '"So, you've intertwined a bunch of members here to somehow stifle what your intention is. In the principle debate, I was saying that in some parts of this proposal, it is amazing to remind you of the rules and regulations of the UN tribunal. You know, and the public of Serbia knows that the president of the SRS has been in The Hague for the fourth year, that his trial does not begin, that in such a way as to violate fundamental human rights and freedoms, it is contrary to all international, known and recognised, rules and conventions. You instead of raising your voice against the violation of your citizen's human rights, which is in The Hague tribunal, which went there voluntarily, which went to defend Serbian national interests, you instead enter into our criminal law the rules of the UN tribunal and foresee some unlimited deprivement of freedom, without a court ruling. That, Minister, is neither in accordance with our Constitution nor in accordance with international regulations, nor has anything to do with democracy, nor has anything to do with legalism, since you swear it. So I don't understand and I don't see any valid reason why this amendment of mine isn't accepted. I repeat, the amendment provides that a person deprived of liberty, without a court's decision, must be immediately conducted by a competent investigating judge. More and more than that is inadmissible and I hope that you will, and you have had time to consider our amendments and you still have, to accept this amendment or to have your colleagues accept this amendment in the voting day, to make this law more constitutional, to comply with international regulations and to look like a democratic process.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26575	The word has Minister Stojkovic, just a moment, and before I give you my word, to tell Mrs Radeti that on Friday, a split material was given the government's opinion on these amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26576	I'll try to give you a brief explanation. This isn't about detention at all, it's about what's called. 48-hour retention rate. One point, the measure exists in the previous law, and there was also in that law that MP Petar Jojic said he was doing. If you remember, it used to be up to three days, so it reduced the holding rate to 48 hours. It was thought that three days was a lot. Therefore, there is no change to the previous existing laws, and this is about detention, not detention. Detention determines the court. That's one thing. The second thing, speaking of The Hague tribunal, here is clear information, on Thursday our ministry will be in Pest, where the Commission for torture and violation of law, including Mr. Tom Nikolic's letter, will discuss this case in The Hague, where the trial does not begin for four years. So you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26577	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26578	You see, this is the situation in Article 5. European Conventions on Human Rights. Mr Stojkovic, you are aware that the European Court of Human Rights has appreciated the so-called "European Court of Human Rights" in this situation. The length of police custody, that's what you say in the jargon. Yes, there was once a three-day police detention, which is why we have suffered years of criticism from the West that human rights are not fulfilled, etc., that human rights are not guaranteed and that no one can be in custody without a court ruling. But I get the impression that you haven't noticed what the point of this amendment is. By the way, the European Court of Human Rights, in one case, felt that deprivement of liberty and detention of five hours was evidence of violation of Article 5. European Conventions on Human Rights. So it took only five hours for police custody. For five hours, the person was at the police station and was not immediately executed by the competent judge, the European Court of Human Rights found that his right to be guaranteed by Article 5 was violated. European Conventions on Human Rights. Just in order for that to not happen, we have submitted the amendment, so that the position would read: "The persons deprived of liberty without a court decision must be immediately conducted by the competent investigating judge. "Why? Let me give you an example. If someone committed a crime in a village 40-50 km away from the seat where there is a municipal court, the police intervened, it is relatively undeniable that the person committed an appropriate crime, it deprives himself of freedom and is being conducted by an investigative judge. It is possible that this transport lasts for two, three hours, depending on some general conditions. What if it's curtained? Then who knew it was a violation of some rights? There would be no violation of the law because simply physical possibilities don't allow that person to be transferred, because even an official person can't get to where the investigating judge is. With the amendment, we wanted to point out first of all this word - immediately, as soon as possible, that whoever deprives freedom knows that it is under obligation to lead this face to an investigative judge. And as soon as we get into these stories for 15 minutes, two hours, five hours, 48 hours, it's a completely different story. So we're surprised you didn't accept this amendment, because it only improves this text. We don't touch this 264, it's there, but we're only potential here because it's all a member that talks about the rights of the persons who are deprived of freedom. So it's his right to be conducted immediately by an official person to an investigative judge. Whether it'll be 15 minutes, two hours, two days, that's something that's estimated by the circumstances. You're absolutely right when you talk about some deadlines. There's a real problem with how to transfer a person 50 kilometers from the first court where they need to be brought to, to the competent court where they need to be brought. Or when the floods were, etc., the police went to the intervention, in the meantime, the flood cut off communication, and even the official person can't get there. With this amendment, we remove these misunderstandings. We say immediately, by interpreting it immediately according to circumstances. You put this 48 hours, what happens if it's an elemental accident. Then it will be right to call someone when the deadlines are so strict. I think you could have accepted one and the other amendments on article 7, because this text of Article 7 would have been fully in agreement with Articles 5 and 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. There would be no copying, but you'd be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26579	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26580	This amendment I have submitted has no fundamental, crucial importance for something that may be crucial in this law, but it's simply one thing that came to my eye, even though I'm a socialist. Although I may have some values that the congregation's majority here today don't share, I believe that the Cyrillic letter is something of a quality, something that is a national treasure, and that, in any case, we should always and at all times make sure that it is protected through all legal proposals. I don't think there was a proposal here to do anything different. I think one spelling error has been taken because under the heading - The official language in criminal proceedings and the right to use this language, in Article 8, paragraph 1, reads the following wording: "There is an official use of the Serbian language of the Ekva and Ichakah excuses and a Cyrillic letter or a Latin letter, in accordance with the Constitution and the law." I propose that this attitude be re-formed and that it be a Cyrillic letter, and that the words "Latin letter in accordance with the Constitution and the law" replace the words "a Latin letter in a manner established by law". In our country, we use Cyrillic and Latin in accordance with the law. As it is formulated, the Cyrillic and Latin are in accordance with the law. You're equating Cyrillic and Latin. That wasn't the case until now. Now, something I have a duty to make and I want to say as a National MP in this assembly, because I have pleaded on similar topics in previous times. There's a Mr. Justice Minister here, and that's what suits me right now. Last night, on the news, I saw what happened in this national home on the Administrative Board, that two other mandates were taken away. In my deep conviction, although I am not a lawyer, I believe it was done against the law, that it was done in one brutal way, in the presence of a MP who said he did not wish to resign. After all, he was respected by an unrelenting resignation he had made before. I don't think there are irrevocable resignations, that a statement of will is present as a priority. I believe a grave mistake and a crime has been committed. That's what I meant in the case of the other two MPs when we voted on the budget, so when the mandates were taken away. If I went out and said my opinion then, I'm obliged to do it this time, so that I don't turn out to be speaking in one case, and in another, which is similar, I don't understand the situation. Since the fact is and a thousand times it has been repeated here by some MPs that the Law on the Selection of Members of the Peoples in this way is harshly violated, there is no longer talk of breaking the law here. Here, first of all, the nature of the government must be determined. Mr. Minister, if this is democracy, then what is dictatorship? That's all I have to say on that subject, and time will show that this is not democracy and that it is one naked, undemocratic nature of power. I understand that the government is struggling to survive, it's completely legitimate, the elections are being asked to gain power, that's the goal of any political action, but to keep it at all costs in a way that is done today is not a quality, it's a delusion and I deeply oppose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26581	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26582	Such a provision, such as Article 11(2), has long existed in our legal system. It says that the persons of Article 1 are not considered to be the public prosecutor, the defendant and the defendant of the damaged, damaged as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor. It's a member who regulates what an ignorant party is. These aren't treated like ignorant parties. What is the legal consequence of this kind of presumption being pushed practically into this? Who wants that? That's what the prosecutors want, so they want the judges in. What is the state of the damaged, accused, damaged as a prosecutor, etc. Poor thing. Why? There is a obligation to judge in every act, a solution, the court has a duty to give legal instruction. We have a situation where someone uses that right, and someone doesn't use that right. We have a third situation, that due to this presumption of training the damaged may be denied some rights. Of course, now someone will say yes, but he can in some other procedure call for the responsibility of counsel, attorney, attorney, and I don't know what we get from this provision of presummation that he's considered a professional person, that he's not an ignorant party, when he's not even a party. The power of attorney is not a party. This applies to parties in the process. I don't know, it's been prescribed for years. It counts, accused as an ignorant party, to be taught what his rights are, and these others who participate, and the prosecutor, and the defender, and the accused, they are considered qualified for the job that is being done. Then when it's considered qualified, some time it's being interpreted by the judges, and it's not supposed to be given legal instruction. We've got a situation where we're getting illegal lessons. What is the real essential protection of the defendant? Let the defendant object to something, and they tell him, you had a lawyer, why he didn't represent it, you keep hearing it. So, you can always hear from the defendant who says, I'm wrongly convicted, my lawyer there didn't say that and that, and if he said that and that, it would probably be different. Well, then both the judge and the prosecutor say, if you said so, maybe it would be different. And this provision is considered to have been very professional and that it is best possible that he represented a lawyer as a defense attorney or a lawyer as a power of attorney damaged in some procedure. It's as simple as getting the job done as possible, but I'd like to warn you, Minister, I can't say if it was yesterday or the day before yesterday, two, three or ten years ago, it doesn't matter, because you know about these situations. The man's being taken into custody, so they put him in some toilet booth for two or three hours, and then they process him a little bit, and then they tell him what kind of statement he's supposed to make, so if there's some piece of defense that he has to have under official duty, then he's being set up by a lawyer on official duty, who's tasked only to find out, because apparently under that stress, the suspect is opening up, and in the hope of protecting him by official duty, and maybe he's saying something that's not the case, then he's going to make a kind of deal. So if the very ignorant party is the accused or to be more precise, naive party, he goes to the investigative judge and confesses something, because the police and counsel told him on official duty that he'll get much less if he confesses than if he contests anything. He admits it at the investigative judge, and when the main search comes, he says, now I'm going to tell you what's true, and it can be tied to the cat's tail. Then the state is clean, she says defender, he's not an ignorant party, he knows the job, he had to inform you of your rights and tell you what to do. If you feel that he has misrepresented you, initiate the procedure and exercise your right to do so under some procedure. Everyone's hiding behind some presumptions. I can understand the presummation of innocence, but I can't understand the presummation of intelligence, expertise and training. I can't figure that out. Just to make contact with some of the following laws that are on the agenda here. I think it's about that decision on a strategy to transform our judiciary, reform the judiciary, where you say it will allow poor citizens to access the court. But you, in the Law of Legal Procedure, have disabled legal persons from a hundred lawyers to be able to declare an audit, but it has to be a lawyer. These are two opposite processes, two completely opposite processes. If we put that in the context of these presumptions, then rightly these citizens can say, just so I don't fall into the hands of a lawyer, because if I fall into the hands of a lawyer, I've robbed Bostan. You're just pushing that story, presumption that it's qualified, and that it's qualified, etc. This opens up another topic, the right of every citizen, who is in court and who is being prosecuted, is to defend himself. We didn't want to touch any of these defense provisions on official duty, but let me tell you that this is not in accordance with international standards at all. That defense attorney can come when the defendant wants to have a lawyer, and he doesn't have enough resources. But if you impose it on him, and he has enough resources or wants to defend himself, it's a different situation. When you've moved on to this accused system, so-called, you've forgotten only one thing, in Anglo-Saxon law, where the defendant's system dominates, there's no possibility that the defendant can defend himself with or parallelly defend himself with his defenders, but the defendant is a minor who's being questioned, and at one point he's even a witness, but there's no procedural authority. In our continental investigation system, the defendant is very active. He may have a lawyer, a defense attorney steps forward, but he's also allowed the defendant to step forward in parallel. So I'm telling you, this transition from one system to another system, by keeping some interactions or mixed solutions, will be tragic in practice. Because as long as you're going to that system, then you've put the defendant in the mercy of the prosecutor, the defender and the court, he's lost, he's nowhere to be found. This system is inevitably withdrawing that the defendant must remain silent before the court if he has a defender, and you're simply forcing him to have a defender, and the defendant is qualified, and you saw himself earlier on that case, that's an example of practice, I know this man who's been lying on the justice of a god for 10 years, just because he's naive, so he listened to what they told him in the police, and what the appointed defender told him on official duty, you admit it, so it'll be two or three years. He confessed to the investigative judge, and he found it strange, but behold, he wrote his statement, and when the main search came, he said, now I will tell you the truth about what happened; yes, in Niketic it can pass, just work, you know what his judgments are, in the absence of death, every long-term has been beneficial, that's what's so-called. Stalin's school, that's what the Supreme Court knows. Well, even the Supreme Court couldn't have his judgments abolished or altered, he was so strong, that the hunter with those eyebrows was wrinkled, no one should touch his judgment. How many innocent people were lying there for him, and I'll always set him up as an example, because a lot of innocent people he sent to jail. What enabled him, these presumptions of the accused, you have a lawyer who's a defense attorney, he's capable, he takes care of you, the devil takes care of a man. Or should I take this to you at the War Crimes Court, this Dasic or Dashanic, as it was, from Novi Sad, it's a former judge, a friend with this Alimpic, an investigative judge, who is a police lawyer, trained to drive him to prison and everyone hides behind what stands in the position of the 2nd member. I don't know what the state gets by writing in some attitude -- it's believed that the lawyer is qualified. It is known to have been trained, delete it. No, then both the court of first degree and second degree calls for, yes, the defendant was represented and he took care of his interests as his defender. How'd he run it? If he didn't run well, you handle it. How are you going to solve this? You have to prove there's a crime, so now there's a procedure to be conducted, so he was ignorant of his own business to protect himself from that lawyer, and how he's going to be taught to prosecute that lawyer tomorrow. We wrote amendments, first of all, to protect the defendant's rights and the defendant's rights. That doesn't mean you're protecting crime. Protecting the rights of a person who is deprived of freedom. You never know who might be deprived of freedom. Probably most of them are for a reason deprived of freedom, but in case someone innocent is deprived of freedom, he must enjoy, and he who is rightfully and who is not rightly, the minimum prescribed by law. We pass the law precisely to guarantee human rights to a man, and in the process to be proven, but not in the process where we see in the beginning that something can be mounted, it can be the cause of abuse. We have a situation, a complaint said by one, the other, the third, relatives, etc., different variations in complaints are heard. Family complains he didn't represent the defendant well, the high court goes over it. Why? The provision says that whatever this lawyer wrote as a defense attorney, he's qualified and it's understood that it's professionally written. Is that how it works? It's not. That's why we've submitted the amendments, to get these things out, to make room for the truth to come out. There's no court case without the truth. The truth is a planetary problem. The truth is the problem in this building, the truth is the problem on the street, everywhere the problem is true, not because different eyes look at the same event, but as they conflict with interests. A cop locked up a suspect and he's looking to finish the case. Why does he care about the truth? There are some doubts about someone there Peru, packing it up, the prosecutor finishes the job, and the prosecutor appreciates whether he's got a conviction or not, as every administrator leaves a case: I've brought that pension solution, I've finished the case. So in court and in the prosecution, they experience these fates, except there's not a pension solution, but the solution is whether a man is going to be in jail or he's going to be out of jail with junkies, because now that our prisons have become drug lords or drug addicts, it doesn't matter what the situation is. So, when it comes to human rights, there's no big talk about whether we want to go here or we want to go there. The minimum must exist. We have submitted in this part of the amendment only to prevent possible abuses of procedural powers and rights guaranteed by this law. Of course, that's what we're gonna defend. When we get to that concept thing -- where there's gonna be an investigation, that's a whole other question. But these things had to be corrected. I must say, these amendments that we make to the first fifty members, where the general provisions are, are not only about this bill, but also about the law that is in force. I expected that, when you're working on a new law, you'd put these illogicalities out of the existing law and clear the norms into the new bill. But I can see she's been doing some inert work here. No one objected to that provision, so there's no need to change it. I think it's easy to approach the business of making such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26583	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the title above Article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again, we come to the fact that at the beginning of the debate in principle and in particular, it was not necessary at all, and it was only done for the sake of or because of some of us incomprehensible innovations, that the provisions contained in the existing law are changed, especially those provisions concerning the Criminal Code, because such terms and such members are inadmissible and wrong. For this reason, counterpart Momir Markovic asked that the title - The meaning of the term 'criminal' in this code and Article 20 be deleted. The article reads: "The expression of a crime in the provisions of this Code is equal to the concept of a crime which, according to its objective features, corresponds to a criminal act and does not cover the guilt of the person against whom the case is being conducted, until it is determined by a judicial decision. "But we believe that for the purposes of criminal proceedings, the definition of a crime that is different from the definition given in the Criminal Code, and even such a member, should not exist. That's why my colleague Markovic asked for his erasure. He's really wrong and it's inadmissible to stand up in this law. The provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act cannot change the concepts that are already set out in the Criminal Code, and there is no real need for that at all, unless, as you are through a book example and a trail of events after Article 19, "the restriction of certain rights due to the initiation of a criminal procedure", you wanted to give what it means to a crime, which is absolutely pointless, because it already exists in the Criminal Code. The fear of the promoters that by taking the idea of a criminal offence set out in the Criminal Code, which we consider to have clearly defined through his member what it was, could prejudge the guilt of the accused and injure the presummation of innocence, is unfounded, as so far the procedural laws have spoken of the criminal act of the accused and of his criminal responsibility, all in the course of the proceedings when it is determined. That's why there's never been any damage, except for the damage that has been done in the wrongly conducted procedure or in direct political or some other lobbyist involvement in certain processes, but from the legal point of view and as far as the law is concerned, we feel that this provision was absolutely unnecessary to you, to define in this way what a criminal act is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26585	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26586	Mr Stojkovic, if this amendment is not accepted, then at the same time we will have two concepts of criminality. We'll have one concept from the Criminal Code and another term from the Code of Criminal Procedure. I respect the reasons the teacher team used when she tried to do this. What's this about? We've changed the definition of a crime by criminal code, so now the important element of the crime mark has become guilty, so guilt is assumed, because if there was no guilt, there would be no crime. Since this change occurred, then this team of professors, who did this bill, came to the conclusion that it was up to them to accept it, with the need for that criminal act to be thrown out of guilt. Why do you need to throw the blame? Because the procedure is against a person because there is only doubt. It's only in court proceedings to prove guilty. But guilt is proven for responsibility, for criminal responsibility, that's what it's about. We also objected when you passed the Criminal Code, so we said, don't change the concept of a crime, against legal, socially dangerous, with the essential elements of being a criminal act... That's what needs to stay, why are you putting the blame? You then put the blame in, and then you find it appropriate that, if this law states that what's written in the criminal code is what's written in the criminal code, then there's really a question, and what we're doing is criminal proceedings, so it's already guilty. So, by pressing charges, you've out of doubt gone to something more likely or certain. We think it is much better to accept this amendment and that this article is simply deleted, because the crime is defined by the only law that defines it in terms of objective, subjective elements, elements of the entity of the crime, the Criminal Code. You're just confusing me like this. And you say, under the concept of a crime, is what it says in that law that it is a crime, but without guilt. The guilt needs to be proved in court proceedings, so a court case is conducted, at least to the other one, that there is an act, that there is an perpetrator, and that causality must be proven, a causal and consequential link between the action or the missing of the suspect and the act. That's how it's been, it's probably still gonna be, because I don't see any other way of doing it. It's much better that this article was thrown out, because the problem of the crime was solved by stupidity, but by other law. I have to say, these are some new theories in criminal law that push for a change of concepts and understanding. However, you see, if this is misrepresented or not precise enough, such as Article 4. The bill, including this Article 20, we are afraid that there may be much greater consequences in practice, because I am absolutely sure that the courts will have to take their positions on these two members. As it is written in the application, it can create bigger problems than benefits. I do not argue that it was the intention that the presumption of innocence is kind of glified, verified, not slowed down, but these formulations create confusion and therefore it needs to be deleted, and nothing of the text will be weakened, because it is already prescribed, regulated by other regulations. In particular, this is by the Criminal Code, as regards Articles 4 and 4 and the Constitution and Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26587	Thank you. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, if you'll excuse me, given that I missed, I had to go out for a moment when there was a debate on Article 18. Very short. Article 18 says that in criminal proceedings, courts are brought to trial by the Assembly. That's what the key word is, choir. I have submitted an amendment in which I suggest that this syntagmic assembly of the court be changed, that it be said - the court judges in the council. Here's a brief explanation. The assembly of the court is not an adequate title and is not an adequate provision for the trial in the council. The assembly points to a general, larger set, which is not the case when the court judges in the council. The meetings are about direct decision-making, self-government, and this word is almost out of use. Due to the subsequent development of this general member in Article 24. It is unnecessary to introduce new terms, especially when they are not appropriate, a proposal for a criminal code, in which a common and quite clear word is used.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26589	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26590	There was a notion here that was supposed to be something wider than just a trial in the council. So he says, the court judges, you have a series of provisions, in the council, three judges, five judges, etc. But the court does certain things, and it makes decisions when it's not a trial in a search, as you have a general session, and then a session of the department. So they're doing the choir then, but it's a little bit wider than bigger. That's why it was this formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26591	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26592	I'm sorry that Mr. Minister is coming out, it's the best men, and he adds it's not the best man, it's the best man. And yet, it's even more important that we stay and discuss this notion of godfather and see how it's possible that the law states that the godmother has the status of someone who can be excluded, and the wife is a godfather. Right? All this is very important, and counterpart Petar Jojic insisted that the godmother be included in the law or Article 39, paragraph 3), because many godmothers make hats and fates to Serbia. Here, I'm going to show you how important this is, on one occasion. You know about this mob duo Hamovic – Lazarevic, who will eventually have to answer because they are headed by the power mafia, because they stole huge money directly from the pockets of Serbian citizens. I see the other night when I was in Banja Luka, I followed the news of this TV of Republika Srpska, a dead cold Hamovic showing up there, talking about the market price of electricity, how he's going to collect, because you know what the whole market is holding there. Once he got a puck from that Gaulater Ashdown, he probably made a deal with him, no one touches him anymore, but when the time comes to start a criminal trial against him to answer for this robbery of the century, then we get to this situation as to how you might have overlooked the minister and the one who wrote, the team that wrote the Code of Criminal Procedure, the godfather, as a factor that should be excluded. We believe that not and therefore, in Article 39, point 3 of point 3 of Article, after the word "godfather" Mr. Jojic added "and his spouse". Because in point 3) the scope of the exemption, apart from the godmother and his spouse, would be a major failure if the godfather were not included as one of the reasons for the exemption, or in the opposite case, it depends on whether it is a godfather or a godfather, who is a direct participant in criminal proceedings. Unfortunately, we have this situation that various godfathers, godfathers and godfathers' lobbys, contribute to an ever worse situation in economic terms. Now you have seen this affair with Kljajevic and with these judges, and the Brašnovici brothers, and those of others, and the godfathers of the bank of Israel, and all of them connected with the bowels, and all of them protected themselves well, both the godfathers and the godfathers, and the citizens are suffering. And, of course, they're robbing uninterrupted until the moment that Vojislav Kostunica is reportedly going into business with the mob, and the main mobsters are still his helpers. The main mobster is right under his nose in the building across the street, as much as in the National Office building, Dragan Gilas, as the largest tycoon, one of the advisors of the president of the Republic. That is why we believe that when this term of godmother is mentioned, it must stand for his spouse, because you have already stated before here in the same member who are these participants, that is, where there is all reason for the exception when it comes to his defender, prosecutor, damaged, legal representative or authority mate, ex-marriage friend or blood relative in the first line to any stage, in the slope line to the fourth degree, according to the title to the second degree, and when you have already gone so far, then you should also specify what fellow Jojic asked for with his amendment. I would like to take another chance when it comes to this chapter on the exemption, to once again warn Minister Stojkovic of the recent statement he made, which concerns the process or more precisely what is going on in the Hague case, and nothing is happening, because four years the president of the SRS is in the detention unit, as you like to say, and you ministers from the government, and you, the other, in Cheveningen, without starting the process. And in a letter that neither the Republic Government nor the National Council has yet to provide the necessary documentation, and they have provided that villain Karli del Ponte, he said, although Mr Tomislav Nikolic led by our president's defence committee, Minister Stojkovic said - we will discuss it. The question is, when? When can we talk about when a man is four years without being able to defend himself for a nebulous indictment, full of lies and slander? And the prosecution itself is, as President Seselj would say, now involved as a chicken in the house, he doesn't know where to start, because all that intention of the prosecution to post a festival find some false witnesses, obviously they didn't get it right, especially after Babic's suicide and his confession that he was forced to say a lot, and in the case of Vojislav Seselj, and killed Slobodan Milosevic, and then there's no end. You no longer have any dignity, nor do you have any more to talk about the so-called. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because whenever someone asks you whether you are MPs who support Kostunica's government, whether he himself, he makes such a statement through a statement, which someone else writes to him, when there is no written statement in front of him, it goes a little harder, then he says - I'm not in a situation, it's not a day to talk about it. When there's no word of a normal person to tell the public again, he sends one, another minister. Same with Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Say it already - we want to serve them and do everything they ask for without protecting any Serbian citizen. We simply want to be servants, they're occupiers for us, we're occupied, just so you say, don't lie anymore and deceive the people. From one year to the next, to the third, here for four years a man himself must fight a battle there. He's gone, because he's going to expose them to the end, so be sure of that, for the initials. But, you know, on the other hand, the state absolutely doesn't react in any case, nor does anything organized to stop that persecution on the road. No, as your best friend, as someone who comes to you, God forbid they come to someone's glory or to some joy, you also receive Carla del Ponte. Now you've heard from this criminal and war criminal Javier Solana again, and he says, well, it's a shame that the negotiations have been stopped, so I'm going to see a little talk and so on. Such villains always appear to you as mentors. As long as that goes on and on. Every decent man of human dignity would say, "I won't take it anymore, I won't support such a government, I won't participate in it at all." I only took advantage of the fact that there are people here to be excluded in the procedure and the amendment submitted by counterpart Petar Jojic. In addition to telling you that further torture against our president continues from day to day, bigger and bigger, it will all endure, and because of millions of Serbian patriots, because of all Serbian citizens, and because of its SRS. And the fact that they insist that a certain Van Ders Pula, some kind of thug, be imposed on him by the defender, and of course he won't accept it, and be sure that you, who have long forgotten that he, as the most popular politician and president of the largest party in Serbia, has been in the Hague case for four years, that such trials, if they insist on it, will not be at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26593	National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26594	My opinion is that this amendment that I have submitted to article 40 of those amendments that can contribute to the crucial quality of this code. In this regard, Article 40, as proposed, reads in the first sentence: "A judge or jury judge, as soon as he finds out that there are any of the reasons for the exemption from Article 39(1) to (6) of this Code (there are defined reasons for the exemption), he is obliged to suspend any work on the case and inform the President of the court, who will appoint a replacement". In Section 2, he says, "If a judge or a jury judge considers that there are other circumstances that justify his exemption, he will inform the President of the court. ''I suggested that this amendment to Article 40 in the post 1st position 'and add the word 'written' to it, with an emphasis on writing. It is very important to emphasise in this article the proposal for a code that this notice is submitted in writing. What does it mean, "he's obliged to notify the President of the Court"? How, orally, in four eyes, who's going to witness it, will they abuse it later? In position 2, I propose that the words "to inform the President of the Court" be replaced by the words "is obliged to notify the President of the court in writing without delay, which will decide on the exemption". Again, I insist here on that word that defines the way the notice will follow. The taking of procedural actions in criminal proceedings laid down by law must have a mark in writing, on the record, with the presence of a number of persons. It is therefore necessary that both the judge or the jury judge, as soon as they find out that there are reasons for the exemption, be informed in writing to the President of the Court. Thus, both the judge and the president of the court are provided with unconscious treatment or the failure of the other. This also ensures the efficiency of the procedure, as the written notice carries the relevant date, but by its nature must contain all information on the reasons for the exemption. I find it inadmissible that these reasons are verbally communicated to the President of the Court, which allows such a conjecture of position 1 in this article. Once again, when you say that the judge is required only to inform, as it stands here, the President of the Court, it implies all possible ways, including verbally, without witnesses present. That also implies the possibility that tomorrow one of them can claim one another. I think it is absolutely necessary, in order to improve the quality of this, in order to avoid this kind of abuse, to adopt this amendment, and I call on Members of Parliament to really pay attention in the day of voting and to vote it, since the minister in charge did not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26595	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 42nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Natasa Jovanovic's MP, then Ljiljana Nestorovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we've had a lot of things as part of the change so far, first of all that first set of law in the area of justice, with which Vladan Batic came before the MPs in April 2005, and then after that, we had such a situation for a man who was V.D. The director of some failed rubber industry down there has appointed as judge, and a little time has passed and he is appointed President of the Court. We've had all kinds of things, and we still have some holders of judicial functions that are a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. We consider most of them to be honorable and responsible people who, by law and by high moral principles, do their jobs. This is amazing, and I don't know how you dared and as someone who has long-standing jurisprudence and, above all, the indisputable authority in the field of legal science, to propose a member like this. In Article 42(2), you said that if an exemption is sought for the President of the Court or the President of the Court or Judge or Judge-Rapporteur, the decision on the exemption shall be made by the Deputy President of the Court of Justice. It's amazing and it's a complete degradation of the judicial institution, and you can't possibly tell a future president of the court, who needs to pass the High Council of Justice as a candidate and come here to the National Assembly as a proposal from the High Council of Justice, and now to tell him by this law, your exemption may require your deputy. When it was and where it even exists in any hierarchy, state only one example, Mr. Minister, and you'll get hold of some of the countries where it says so, but in Serbia it never happened, it wasn't even in that former state where you studied law school and that you had observed judicial practice. Is it not only a humiliation, but it is normal for the deputy president of the court to do so and to make such a proposal, rather than the president of a directly higher court, as was the case so far. Where did you even get this idea and why you're resorting to that solution? I have to tell you that there has been general interference in certain courts, and when it comes to the Kraguje municipality court, including other courts in Serbia, it was those who, through a negative reaction to the choice of legal holders, or the president of the court, tried everything and everything. In one not incorrect, but in a way that is not suitable for the holder of a judicial function, they went public and gave various assessments, etc. You now want to create a rivalry and some gap between the immediate superior, or the president of the court and the one who has the role of deputy president of the court. Like this, you know, every normal citizen, as every citizen through a lower court verdict, will have the right to appeal to a higher court, and to go to the Supreme Court, to respect that hierarchy, and that's something that you now violate with this and this kind of member, and it's unacceptable. I don't see where it's applied, even if it is, it won't echo well in Serbia. You are already sending a negative message to all and the current and future elected presidents of the courts that they will be replaced or in their decision to exempt that deputy judge, which is wrong. As you as a minister to whom in the conclusion of this kind of, such a wrinkled coalition, from the end and rope, Vojislav Kostunica has given the mandate to lead this resort that is important in society, you can imagine yourself that your assistant or deputy is looking for your exception or to say, that's why I don't know what and what, I'm going to be present instead of Minister Stojkovic, and I'm Caricing it now, but here it's a serious matter and something that hasn't existed so far and it's incomprehensible, and be sure that the MPs who are individual, and the lawyers are in your ranks, just came down to the shoulders when they saw it. I call upon the MPs, if you do not change your mind today, and you can now say that you accept this amendment, which was submitted by the SRS, or Mr Petar Jojic, that they do so in the voting day, because it is fairer, because it is more responsible and it is something that has always been with us, and that is why we have also submitted the amendment to Article 42. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26597	Thank you. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26598	The duty of the police and other state bodies involved in the previous investigation to act on the request of the public prosecutor is the chapter referred to in Article 46. Col. Milan Stevovic, a lawyer by profession and currently elected president of the municipality, the successful president of the municipality of Požega, but for a reason, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment asking for attitude 3 to be deleted. It refers to the part that says: 'If within 24 hours of the receipt of the notice referred to in Article 2, the internal affairs authority or another state body does not act on the request of the public prosecutor referred to in Article 1, the public prosecutor will, without delay, initiate a disciplinary procedure against persons suspected of being held liable for failure to comply with his request. ''Prosecutor of the public, under Article 46(3). The bill should become a disciplinary elder, not only for internal affairs authorities, but for all other state bodies that do not comply with his request. He would be obliged, according to what I have read now, to initiate a disciplinary procedure within a short period of 24 hours of unsuccessful intervention with the elders of the organs. The problem is that you can't see who's running this procedure, Mr. Minister, how it's formally-legally arranged, which is the rights of the persons under whom the proceedings are initiated, which sanctions can be imposed, etc. It's just here that he's listed what a public prosecutor should do in that case within 24 hours, and it's still at his disposal, so he's going to act from case to case. How he will initiate discipline and against whom, and who these faces are, and what their rights are, and what they refer to further. It is perfectly fine to remain these points 1) and 2), where instruments are given, i.e. the possibility of the police and other state bodies participating in the previous investigation, to act at the request of the public prosecutor, but this way that the prosecutor himself will carry out these tasks without knowing how, in any way, it is unnecessary, it is selectively defined and can also be misused, and therefore he felt that it was necessary for this 3rd position to be deleted. In practice, this can really happen when you give the prosecutor such powers, that according to certain persons, he should initiate a disciplinary procedure without seeing who these persons are, or how the proceedings are being initiated. It's all unscheduled and that's why it's better to delete point 3 in Article 46.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26599	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26600	Just one little explanation. In principle, the debate draws attention to this. We've accepted the amendment that he can only initiate with the competent authority's authority to initiate the procedure, so it's settled now. I see that the amendment that was accepted later, so these remarks would have been fine if it had been left like this, but now it's been removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26601	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member speaks of a situation where a search takes place without orders. It is normal for counterpart Jojic, just like anyone else who looks at it and who logically thinks about it, to submit such an amendment and ask for the word "public prosecutor" to be deleted in article 81. I'll read to you what the position of the first member is. "Employed officials of the police (good) or public prosecutor (that is to be requested by fellow Jojic to be deleted) may, without the court's order, enter a foreign apartment or other premises and carry out a search if there are any of the following reasons." It really raises the question of why the public prosecutor will be here with members of the police, or bodies that need to be searched. Is that logical to you and is that necessary to you? What will the investigative judge do, who will do the job and whether, Mr Stojkovic, you can imagine the Attorney General, Slobodan Jankovic, the man who is still at some age, who has been elected to the post of the Republic Public Prosecutor, that he enters some apartments and chases criminals, and that with trained members of the police, all by the outside wall, enters the window, passes through the underground passage, comes from the basement and does these jobs. Or some prosecutor in Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Pirota or downstairs who's supposed to be chasing terrorists in Bujanovac. It's amazing that this is what you predicted by law. We've been distracting you, especially when it comes to part of the law that talks about the prosecutor's business, what it's supposed to do, that this is kind of funny, but above all unnecessary and dangerous for people who aren't trained for that part of the job. You know what it means to break in, search without orders. And it all writes nicely, says, when the holder of the apartment or other rooms asks for it (good), when someone calls for help, maybe it's an attempted murder or rape, and now the competent state authorities, the official faces of the police, who are absolutely highly professional, dressed, three hours at night, they're a prosecutor, he's like a man in pajamas, he pulls shoes and a suit, if he's got time to wear a shirt, and if he's not like that in a shirt, with a jacket over, and imagine he's breaking into the apartment, and there's murderers and I don't know who else, criminals of the greatest rank. He says the execution of the court's decision on the detention or order of the competent authority to bring the defendant in. It's also a very delicate situation in cases where you have an example of a dangerous armed gang, whether it's drug dealers, whether it's those who rob banks or other places. You don't think they're sitting and waiting, sipping coffee in some bar, going from morning to morning the prosecutor and members of the police and going to do their job and doing a search without prior notice, and they're armed to the teeth and ready to shoot at passersby, let alone the prosecutor and the police, who, by nature, is dressed in such a thing. It's amazing, and it's unnecessary, because as prosecutors, as bearers of these functions, you're exhibiting something like that, and especially because it's not a practice so far. These are just some of the examples, and I don't know if, Minister, you've thought about whether, in the context of the adoption of this law and of a member like this, without the accepted amendment of counterpart Peter Jojic, all of these prosecutors, who have been elected to this post, will be willing to do this job. Think about it. Think about it if someone tells you tomorrow, here you are a minister and you're doing your job in the government, tomorrow perhaps within your legal profession, by changing the government, and I believe that it will happen as soon as possible, you go to some other function, and now someone needs to tell you, or someone like that, even if he's younger, that he's in his 30s, that you're getting involved in such actions. There's only one place in the movie. Where did you see that? In the movie, where it has stunts and accompanying equipment, those stage effects. Do you MPs know, I suppose you remember, the man was here taking an oath, as the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Slobodan Jankovic, looks like? The man came here, came out to the pay phone twice, thought he should do the same thing again, sat there in front, waited his turn and left. Imagine that there's a clan that's focused on the constitutional breaking of the country, that it's some terrorist unit or something, some dangerous group, and you're now calling Prosecutor Jankovic, come running, come with us, without notice of a search. It's really amazing. We have not received an official report to this day, both on the Defence and Security Committee and after the formed subcommittee, on the "Sabbe" action, that at 15 or 20 km from its place of residence are certified members of the Zemun clan, i.e. their leaders Mile Lukovic and Dusan Spasojevic. It was such a situation when the police apparently traced their movements to where they were supposed to be, and what happened on the spot, we can only assume, because according to that old man, the dead mouth didn't speak, and then it was appropriate for them to be allegedly killed in that place, and who knows what actually happened. You now want for one such action and for breaking up one terrorist or organized criminal group in the whole armed police business to involve the prosecutor. Nothing, then you'll have to ask, within the framework of the MUP, for prosecutors to start training you first, whether they're in a special police unit or wherever, to come up with a seminar for people to be trained and to know what's waiting for them, because just by leading them like clay pigeons, in situations where they can really lose their heads, God forbid. But these are all examples that you know exist and that's why Jojic asked that this be deleted and that this member be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26603	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 82 and 82 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic to Article 86. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26604	Ladies and gentlemen, and we talked about this in principle debate, we talked about the concept of this law when it comes to the role of public prosecutor and prosecutor. Of course, it's not just because you have and suggest in one part of the bad staff and people who are known in advance that they can't do this job, but simply because it's a principled and conceptually different attitude of the SRS. In this particular case, this amendment is not about that either, but about the arrangement of this article in 86th and the fact that you have two positions of the same member in college. The title above article 86 states - Getting data from a bank or another legal person and temporary suspension or temporary withdrawal of cash transactions. Then you have a position (2) in this article, which says: ''Under the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Article, a public prosecutor may order the competent authority or organisation to suspend the payment, i.e. the issue of suspicious money, securities or objects. ''The proposal in the amendment is to say 'propose' instead of 'impose'. So a public prosecutor can propose and can't order. In the view (4) of the same article, you say: ''On a proposal from the public prosecutor, the court may decide to suspend the execution of a particular cash transaction which is suspected of being a criminal offence or that it is intended to cover up a criminal offence or to obtain a criminal offence. ''So, you begin your position, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, and in your position (2) you say the prosecutor may order. If you agree not to change this word by our amendment, that is, this position, then you should be in your position (4) to say - by order of the public prosecutor, the court may, etc. You say in your explanation why the amendment of MP Kutic was not accepted: ''The government does not accept the proposed amendment for the reason that the use of the term 'impose' in Article 86(2). The bill means that the competent authorities and organisations are obliged to act on the order of the public prosecutor, and if the term "propose" was accepted, the obligation would not exist. In addition, the situation referred to in Article 86(2) The draft law differs from the case provided for in Article 4, under which a public prosecutor proposes a court to adopt a certain solution, and for this reason this proposed amendment cannot be accepted, since it is not a matter of harmonising these two positions. 'At first, this isn't true. Secondly, even if it is true, the amendment must be accepted because it is unacceptable for the government to, if this proposed amendment were to stand, the term "propose", you say, would not exist. That's just not true. It's not true, but you're doing this for some other reason, because we know from experience how some members of the government behave when it comes to courts, prosecutors. These are your colleagues, ministers, and they get involved in your work, and even you at the conferences talked about that while you go somewhere on the official trip, your fellow finance minister goes public with some crazy proposal to get rid of all the judges and prosecutors in Serbia, because he's unhappy with some decision, or he comes out and says, what Supreme Court, decisions of the Supreme Court are like this, and he doesn't care about that either. So in such a context, you want to order this term to protect yourself, first of all, from your government colleagues, but that's not a good solution. At first, I said, especially given the fact that all the people you're proposing to be public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors, and then imagine when they're being ordered instead of proposing, so when you're the prosecutor of the Joint Director of the National Office, whom you've proposed already for one of the next sessions, and then we'll have the same situation in the prosecutions as on the programming board and the broadcasting board, and what Alexander Vukic was talking about this morning. So, you gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be making branches of the Democratic Party in all institutions, of course with the intention of putting the future coalition on some stable feet. We'll talk about it when it's up to date. So, I continue to suggest that the amendment to Bora Kutic is accepted, because, among other things, the prosecution cannot have this kind of authority. I'm asking, the D.A.'s office must be a party in the process. Can the other party in the process order or can only suggest and seek? It is indeed unacceptable, we have talked about this and in principle debate, you are bringing the party into an unequal position in the process, the prosecutor is performing from the level of the executive authority, and the other party in the process has to beg, to request, to seek and never to comply with it. I suggest, since the minister obviously won't accept it, because neither did the government, with an explanation that doesn't correspond to the real situation, that this amendment should be accepted in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26605	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26606	I'd just like one brief explanation, so that we don't bind attitudes 2 and 4. The prosecutor is a party to the proceedings, but the authority entrusted with the prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes. So he can order other state authorities, organizations, to do something. For example, if someone has gained enormous property benefit by some criminal act and is standing at the bank, they have the right to ask the bank to block it until the end of the proceedings. Article 4 is talking about something else, he's talking about the court, the prosecutor as a party can't order. He may suggest determining detention and things like that, but he can't order it. It's just a party in the process. In that sense, there is a difference between the court and other bodies or institutions. You're incorrectly saying he can suggest. If he does, he can say it's a nice suggestion, but I won't do it. This is where she orders and she has obligations, and she's not here. I'm attitude four talking about court. The court can't order. There's no harm to citizens' equality. I'm saying, it's about an organ entrusted to prosecution, both by the Constitution and by the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26607	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26608	Mr Stojkovic, exactly what you said was proposed by our amendment. I thought you removed it. We asked for intervention in paragraph 2, to replace the word "impose" with the word "propose". What does that mean? It's about a chapter on money laundering. We also have international conventions that we have ratified and made appropriate commitments. It means that under the provisions of Article 1(1) of this Article, a public prosecutor may order the competent authority or organisation to suspend the payment, i.e. the issue of suspicious money, securities or objects. We agree, but he can't order, he can suggest. Here's why. Article 4 states in the same article: "On a proposal from the public prosecutor, the court may decide on a temporary suspension of a certain cash transaction (what is in paragraph 2 is a cash transaction within the meaning of the rules on finance, transfer, transfer of funds from one account to another, it is called a transaction) for which there is a reasonable doubt that it is a criminal offence or is intended to carry out, or to cover up a criminal offence" etc. The logical consequence of Article 2 is Article 4 that another body, on a proposal from the Prosecutor, makes a solution. So, the D.A. is asking and proposing to suspend payment temporarily because there's some suspicion. He proposes and asks the competent authority, and the competent authority is the court. It's a temporary measure. He can't carry out a temporary measure of prosecution. Only in the case of the Public Information Act can he in some way, when the ban on breaking up, etc. This is about funds. He's suspicious that there's some means in an account. We also have a Commission on the Prevention of Money Laundering. The public prosecutor may also suggest asking the court to adopt a provisional measure. This measure is called suspending payment, or issuing suspicious money. Paying and issuing suspicious money, it's a financial transaction. This is where someone who probably didn't have in mind this convention, which we ratified, about preventing and laundering money. We are only under the obligation of this convention to form a commission that deals with these affairs. This commission is very important in the privatisation process, banking, etc., because it in some way examines the origin of the funds, not quite classically, as we once thought it should be done, that someone proves where it comes from, etc. There's a circulation of confirmation today. All larger amounts of official duty are controlled, you know. Whether the transfer of funds is accompanied by a job, whether it has some legal basis. So the D.A. can only suggest. He submits a proposal and asks the court for a temporary measure. Why the temporary measure? There is some doubt that this is dirty money, there is some doubt that this transaction is money laundering, it is temporarily stopped, until some facts are discussed, whether it will be conducted later or not. But on the DA's order, someone finishes the job and it's also temporary, as the court in paragraph 4, those two variations are not possible. If we go like that, then the DA can get to any firm's cash register and say, "I'm ordering you to stop paying off." That can't happen. The bank is only bound by a court order. He can ask for information, question, so when he finds that something is suspicious, inform the court, suggest a court: please, there is a reasonable doubt that there is a criminal act being conducted under official duty, and that it would be prevented etc. Please make a solution to order that payment be suspended temporarily. But the court orders. If you give the D.A.'s authority to do this, next to the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and besides the court, then you don't need attitude 4. You just define yourself as a concept, whether it's a prosecutor or a court that can suspend temporarily. If you're up for the option that the prosecutor is doing it, you don't need attitude four; if you're up for the option that the court is doing it, then attitude two has to change and put the word "impose" into the word "propose". That is the whole purpose of this amendment. You went out here nice and explained, and we just put that in the amendment. I don't think there's any authority under the Convention on the Prevention of Money Laundering. In all conventions, however, it is said "the competent authority", never enters into the internal organisation of the government of a state in international conventions. I think there are several places where a court, law enforcement, etc. appears. International conventions are written with broad terms, since they do not have the authority to organise a state, so that they say it must be a court or a public prosecutor, there are other problems. I think you can accept this amendment, because we're not preventing the prosecutor in the event of a suspicion that he's looking for an appropriate measure. If a single-letter prosecutor can order anyone to stop, then we need to check whether he has reasonable doubts or not, so we need to conduct criminal proceedings against the prosecutor, whether he has misused authority. And these are all temporary things. It's much better when a court comes into some temporary state than a prosecutor, the police, or I don't know who the third one is. If you had inserted the competent authority here (the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering) to assist in some way, it's already another variant. So, in addition to being a judo, a shooter, he has to know the jiu-jitsu, he has to be a forensic scientist, he has to know everything, because he opens windows, doors, etc., even if you put this in him and he can order everything and everything, then we don't need the law, Minister, then we only need one member: the prosecutor can do anything, and if something screws up goes to jail for so many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26609	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 95th Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Verica Radeta, the SRS, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26610	This is an amendment that is in that group of three the key reasons why SRS MPs cannot vote for this code, which refers to the involvement of a covert investigator, or Article 151 - command to determine an undercover investigator. Obviously, I missed a member. It is foreseen that Article 95 deletes the position - the defendant who so requests will be allowed to read the criminal record or criminal record immediately before the first hearing, but after reading and before the hearing, the defendant must not speak to the defendant until he is heard. The proposal is to delete this view because this way the ignorant person would be put in a position not to be able to defend themselves, or to state a certain position and it's just amazing, now I'm trying to find out what the government has told us, which is why it refused this amendment, that the amendment is not accepted. The government says-- it doesn't accept the amendment, the proposed formulation of Article 95. The bill cannot harm ignorant parties since the rights of the defendant are protected in other provisions of the bill. You know, ministers, other provisions are other provisions, we are talking about this provision of Article 95, where it is obvious that, by not accepting this amendment, or to remain this position in Article 95, it would harm the ignorant parties, because, as you said, after reading and before the hearing, the defendant must not speak to the defender until he is heard. When the defendant reads the criminal report, and if he is an ignorant person, he can say so much to his own harm, of course without intending to do himself any harm, but out of mere ignorance, he can do such damages that will later reflect the very course of the criminal proceedings. We think that not accepting this amendment would lead to a violation of fundamental human rights and that is the essence of not only this amendment but of many amendments to the SRS. And when we spoke in the principle debate, and even now when we talk about details, it is increasingly evident how much this bill, if adopted without our amendments, will violate the fundamental human rights of the citizens of Serbia. This is not a good approach, nor a principled solution in this article, and that is why I propose, since the Government has not accepted the amendment, that this amendment be accepted in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26611	Zoran Krasic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26612	Here, before I specifically say a word about this amendment to Article 95, I would like to ask the MPs present, and these presidents of the parliamentary groups, to see what is written in Article 87(3). It is stated that if the drug seized has been taken from the defendant that, before the main search begins, there is the possibility that, even if the obligation, a complete quantity could be destroyed, there is an obligation to provide ten times the amount necessary for an expert analysis. If we assume that an analysis takes one gram, then we need to leave 10 grams of 50 or 150 or 250 or 300 kilograms. There's a problem. If the party is ignorant and there's no good defender, who, in addition to one skillful investigation, would ask for other craftsmanship on the random pattern system, etc., then there's a real possibility of providing 10 grams of something that represents intoxicating drugs, and that everything else is destroyed and that there's no way to perform the art after that, to check whether it was that amount, is it this, is it that. Why did I say this? This is exactly what I've said because of what I'm about to do with article 95 in Section 4 that we're asking for to be deleted. There's a difference here between the defendant, whether he's read the criminal report or not. If he's read the criminal report before he hears and gives his testimony, he can't communicate with his defender, he can't agree, he can't be taught what the word means. If he's been read a criminal report or just told in general what he's charged with, then he can communicate with his lawyer as a defense attorney and prepare for his first statement. It's just amazing whether it depends on whether the defendant took the paper into his hands and read it or not had a chance to take the paper and read it. This attitude 4 is not given in the function of the accused that he can get to know it directly, but is given in the function of a prank. What pranks? It's just that an ignorant stranger gets his hands on that paper, she says - so please, what have I to do with it, now you've read it, move it, the defender out there in the corner shut up, now answer you. The situation that strangers are just read or something in basic lines -- so you're charged with that, that and that, and he says, if I could consult with my lawyer, explain to me what any word means, what does that mean? Then he has the right to consult before he gives his statement. That can't stand in the law. It can't depend on one piece of paper on the defendant's right, and that's how it's written here in Section 4. So, not in the function of informing the defendant as best possible, because it is his right, and according to the Constitution, and by all international acts, to be immediately informed of all the reasons why he is being charged and prosecuted, to show him what evidence exists against him, to give him enough time to prepare himself, to enable himself to defend himself and at this stage, here is not a defense but an explanation of some facts that are important to the prosecution and one who pursues determines whether he will continue to pursue or not. Since such a substance is the defendant's right, then this hoax in attitude 4, with the push of criminal charges that he sees or touches it, and that depends on the possibility of communication with the defender, for us from the SRS is unacceptable and therefore we suggest that this attitude be erased, to remain what is ahead, it's the first three attitudes and what's in 5 and 6 and these attitudes that follow. Please note, for example, that you are also observing in the context of Article 87, where there is really a possibility that, if it is an ignorant party, the whole process of proof is being mounted. Because apparently, there, we took 10 grams, it's enough, we can destroy all of this. So now, which side was taken 10 grams, whether it's from here, whether it's from there, whether it was just a kilo here, and 900 kilograms of flour or sugar, or if I don't know what, powdered sugar, it doesn't matter. That's how you practically remove clues, evidence. We have not submitted an amendment to Article 87, because it simply seems amazing to us that someone can put into the law some attitude and some member who exudes so much by trickery. We couldn't figure it out, but with this article in '95, we had to intervene, because the ignorant party is likely to get hurt. He won't be able to consult with his lawyer to explain to him what the word "criminal" means. Look out, every word has its own synonym. Every word has its own local meaning. What is written in our Criminal Code is not interpreted in all territories, in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia in the same way, because one word has a multilayer meaning in Vranje compared to Subotica, where the word has a whole other, perhaps more precise and more consensual interpretation. That's why you need a lawyer with a guilty hearing and to let him know what it means in the Criminal Code. That he lightly, making the first statement, does not heighten his suspicion, or suspicion of him. That's why I believe that many of the provisions, you've seen us in the past 10 amendments, have just potentiated that we must not allow the law on criminal proceedings to allow innocent people to be imprisoned and punished. What we've been looking for with the amendments doesn't affect, that is, it doesn't reduce, it doesn't make it worse and it doesn't endanger an effective fight against crime. But it potentifies the human rights of our citizens, because we simply can't realize that someone should be in jail because of their ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26613	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26614	Article 99 of this proposal of the Code is provided under the heading - Recording of the statement of the defendant. In my opinion, a very important chapter, precisely in the context of what Mr Krasic said, because it is very important here to make sure that the defendant, regardless of his expertise, literacy and all other characteristics, is at any moment someone whose human rights will be respected and where he will have all the mechanisms, even by the state and those who represent him, that these human rights are respected to the end. Therefore, Article 99 provides for the statement of the defendant to be entered in the record in the form of first-person narrative, and the questions and answers asked to them will only be entered in the record when they relate to a criminal matter. The second point is that the defendant can be allowed to make his own statement in the record. In third, the defendant's statement is normally recorded by sound and video recording devices, except when for important reasons, I really don't understand what these are important reasons, it's not possible. By its amendment to Article 99. I propose that the bill be amended in which case it reads: "The defendant must be shown that he is allowed to make his own statement in the record." The defendant, in my deep confidence, should in any case be allowed the opportunity to state his own testimony in the record, because the interpretation of someone else's testimony may be problematic, even if the interpretation is done by a judge, especially if for the reasons mentioned in paragraph 3 the sound and video recording was not possible. The authentic statement of the defendant is also important in the appeal procedure. In response, or Government to the fact that this amendment is rejected, I was given some reason that if the accused is illiterate, semi-literate, problematic expression, then it would certainly be better for the judge to interpret what he said. However, if we think about it better, just in those cases which the minister stated in the explanation, when someone has a weaker power of eloquence, of explanation, of understanding, therefore, interpreting someone who is problematicly presenting some of his conclusions, the facts of a particular case, are merely a falsification of what the defendant himself may have misread or misrepresented, so that we can finally get an unauthentic statement, and if the judge, the authorised expert, dictates it in the record. Personally, given that I had a certain court procedure, where I wouldn't say the details, I was even in a situation where the judge refuses, although I demand that the record enters exactly what I want, because I have the right to reinterpret for some of my reasons and interests, but I don't want to talk about it now and to bother this body, but he kept refusing to enter it in the record, so that I would probably have some difficult circumstances in the further trial process, and it was very difficult for me to fight to get into the record what I, as someone who was in that court procedure, wanted to enter. I am absolutely sure that this amendment should be accepted, because one way in which we can obtain authentic testimony in the record and make sure that the right of the defendant himself who is actually giving evidence that he will be fully respected the right to enter the record of what is his will.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26615	According to the amendment, Zoran Krasic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26616	That the law is bad you'll see best if you read individual members of each law, not just this one, and if you find in some article text that it's written 'by the book', you know that there's nothing. This article and the law are not good, for it is usually interpreted as being held accountable to the one who conducts the procedure. This is one of the bigger problems in determining the truth in all our court proceedings. This is the arbitraryness where, by dictated to the notary, the judge gives his impression and his interpretation of what someone said during a procedure. I think it's high time to move on to the mandatory stenographic recording of all the searches, the debates and everything that's been done in some procedure. Because we have too much language, with many expressions, a large number of meanings for the same word. It doesn't matter what context one word is put in, whether at first, whether at the end of a sentence, what it means locally, etc. If all this is added to the judge's improvisation that he thinks someone said something, then we'll have this situation. However, this wording proposed by the amendment is also practically not binding, but only for the organ itself, there is an obligation to suggest that such a possibility exists. What happens when it predicates? Well, this one says, "I'd like to use that, and he says, "You can't." Why? So the next attitude, it's said ''as a rule, if there's technical possibilities. ''If the justice system was transformed a much bigger effect for the judiciary would be, and that would be the next law, that all of this that you've dedicated to the judicial centre, that you've given the courts with the means of recording, the audiovisual recording of everything that's going on, even if you've finished half of the courts this year, so next year something else. You see and here it's recorded, the stenogram is run, there's these USBs, this flash, it's got everything on it that's been said here and there after it's been typed. Why can't the court do that? I don't believe that flash is worth more than 50 euros, I don't believe it, and if a large amount is provided, there's got to be another price. Every writer, every court should have that, and there's an opportunity to listen well and multiply well, and to get a written variant, it always has to be obtained. I think there are already some courts that operate by these new standards. It is quite expensive, but it's even more expensive unless the truth is determined. We're all witnesses, who once was in court, and saw that statement rewritten. Now the one who's a little brazen and rude, he goes to the judge and says, "I didn't say it, I said it like this," and then he brings in a new interpretation, and the one from the higher court when he's supposed to interpret what happened in the first-degree procedure, just a man to cross himself and say, "It's gone away and back to the first-degree, so clear up what's what." This would be a lot simpler. I think the possibilities exist, so you invest only 50% of the resources that some NGOs and those not elected as judges have laundered, so they've become lecturers at the Justice Center. You deny them that money and give it to them. There's no better means to train judges than this. There is no better means, believe me. The court knows the law, just to learn how to make a stenogram and faithfully remain written down everything that was done during the proceedings, and then the higher authority can appreciate the legality of the decision. Like this, with interpretations. Another thing, even when you say to the defendant, feel free to dictate, the writer will enter, he will again be confused, and so many times there has been a situation to begin, and why, because he has some pause and can't express himself freely. It is time to ensure a new way of keeping records and recording all statements, statements and witnesses and the defendant. In this way, one who appreciates the legality of the first-degree decision and everything that has been done before the appeal can determine what it is authentic, in which context it is used which word and with what meaning, and not to give in to improvisations and emotions of a judge, so depending on whether someone is likable or not he dictates whether he should lead the child to vaccination, let's speed up, or the dactylographer needs to finish something, so let's cut it short, so instead of six sentences we'll put two sentences. Yeah, he confessed, and he never said yes. When interpretations are also entered into the record, it is very difficult in the appeal procedure to prove that what is stated here does not correspond to the truth. When it is filed in a complaint and it is said that the record does not respond to the truth, then a criminal procedure must again be conducted to prove that the judge deliberately or consciously broke the law or misused his position, etc. One more thing I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, do you know how many problems we've had to smuggle tape recorders to write down what's being said in the search and publish in one of our books, because what the judges are bringing has nothing to do with the testimony and the witnesses and the defendant. Or, to write to the President of the Court, to ask him to allow us to have a journalist present as a third neutral so he knows what's going on and what's going on. That tendency to change the defendant's testimony some time is tending and intentional, and sometimes it's really random, that's what you have to say. The judge wants to finish the case and cover it up, give something of his own and finish the job. I didn't talk about Danko Lausevic from the Fifth Municipality, how he dictates, or about that one over there, Scepanovic from the Fourth. With a smile they give their interpretation, then the defendant has to intervene six times and say, the judge didn't say that, but I said that too. And then the defendant says it's not like this, if the judge wills to bring her in. And not to mention the testimony of lawyers and lawyers, where just some judges have to fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26617	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 101, which I have filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I suggest that point 3 be deleted. It refers to the situation when hearing the defendant with disability and hearing the defendant through interpreters. You know, Mr. Minister, and all the MPs who may have been following this matter should also know that for the involvement of interpreters and artists by the competent court, the competition is being held, right, and that every court should have records of who the experts are, who are the interpreters and those who are called on to do their job. There's a weed in every grain, so when it comes to warlocks. A variety of things about the device, there's small or slightly larger corruption, and that's something that should also be the subject of curbing corruption when it comes to the judiciary, and especially when there are various estimates, property-legal relations, and you know it even better. It's too much. It doesn't surprise me at all. But when it comes to the help of an interpreter for a disabled person, for a person who needs to be interpreted, means for someone with hearing damage, explain what his rights are and to be heard in a particular criminal act, it's amazing, Mr. Minister, that you are predicting a situation like this. Here is what point 3 of Article 101 of the Law says: ''If the interpreter has not taken an oath before, he will be called upon to take the oath to faithfully convey the questions that the accused is referred to and the statements he is making. If the interpreter refuses to take an oath, his statement shall be entered in the record, and the authority conducting the procedure will call on another interpreter. '"I really don't know if you intend to or suggest to this member of the law and this law to force and from the street collect interpreters to come to court. If there's a register of artists and a register of interpreters, I guess it's normal for these people, like other holders of judicial functions to do, before they come to a specific call, to take an oath, not on the spot. Why do you even have such a chance that he won't? I'd like to know. First, it's illogical why all interpreters don't take an oath the moment they get elected to the competition and put themselves in the register of interpretations. What he has on a specific invitation to come and take an oath. You invited him like that, Peru Peric, and you say, he came that day and I don't know what's wrong with him, he got up on his left leg, not you, Albianic, but this interpreter, and he won't take an oath. Which he won't take an oath to ask him, and he's running for it, it's an honorable role. First, that someone has to be qualified to do that job. Now the man who's accused needs an interpreter, it all started out nice and started the hearing, and he says, you know, I don't want to do my job. So you say here, imagine, in the middle of a situation like this, someone has to say, it doesn't say who, let's say the president of the council says, this man here is an interpreter, which is one reason, I don't know what's wrong with him, it's a bad day, he won't take an oath, he won't, so forcefully force him. You say we'll call someone else. What if you don't have another interpreter? Imagine it's a court in Batocina, there's only one court interpreter and he refuses to take an oath. You brought this man who's guilty, with disabilities, and you realize this man won't take an oath. What kind of interpreters are these? What kind of people do you name in a job like that? As far as I know, all the judges, all the prosecutors and deputies when elected, one day they are called here by the President of the Assembly, usually on Saturdays or days when the National Assembly does not ambush, come and swear that they will honorably and responsibly, according to the Constitution and the law, do their job. That's how it should be with the interpreters. This is funny after all. Where did you get the idea that this interpreter would come from and say, "I'm not going to take an oath, and there's nothing else you can do about it, and there's no interpreter." All because they didn't do it before. So everyone needs to take an earlier oath and make it binding for him. Not every judge takes an oath from the hearing to the hearing, but once he's elected to that office, he takes an oath. Next to your logic, you can have a situation for the judge to come to the hearing that day and say, "I won't work, I won't judge." Come all, the defendant came, his lawyer, the prosecutor, the jurors, the public, and he says, "I won't work today, I don't like it, it's my day." You're putting us in such a situation that we have to deal with some hypotheses and think about what happens if it is, and all because it's not binding for interpreters to take an oath when they're chosen as an interpreter by competition. So are the jurors. It would be much better if it didn't come to a situation like this, and above all, an unpleasant situation because it was a disabled person, to accept the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and so you'll have an absolutely clean situation. You will know that on that day, when the defendant needs an interpreter, the interpreter comes from the register, whether there are several in one place, I took an example of Batocina, but any smaller town that I took as an example, let's say, Pozeg, some small town in Serbia where there are few interpreters or few artists, people who live there who are lawyers and know that, it's not right to leave a point 3) in Article 101. Because it's not good for people who need it and you're being ridiculous, Mr. Minister. This member of the law is slightly ridiculous. What are we going to do about whether someone will come or not, what kind of day he will have and why he won't? It's really amazing, and I would never have come from someone who had to do that job not taking an oath. Like you say, a soldier went into the army, last month, scheduled a day for an oath, and he says he won't take an oath. It's the same for the satuators. It's a responsible job. That man didn't come here to play, even if there was an interpreter on TV in hearing-damaged news, so he's a normal man, he knows what his responsibility is, and he'll normally do the job. Now it's been in the news for people like that at 4:00 on national television. A few days ago, we made a mistake, so after Mr. Vukic gave the correction, it's true that it exists at 4:00. You are now thinking that whoever is guilty and who needs help, he is simply blamed and departs from the assumption of innocence and who knows what such a person or person could do as a crime. He still has to prove he's innocent, just because he's handicapped he can't do it like that and he still cancels his interpreter, he won't work, the law gives him that possibility, you're looking for someone else. It's not a good solution and, here, with all these situations that can happen, and they don't have to, the very provision to stand by the law is inconclusive, Mr. Minister, and I think you should accept the amendment that I submitted to Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26619	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26620	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear why it is proposed that an interpreter who has not taken an oath should take an oath. I don't know if he can be an interpreter unless he's been on the list of interpreters before, and he hasn't taken an oath in a group before that. I'd just draw attention if it wasn't court practice and it's not burdensome with court practice. I don't know if the expert or the interpreter refused to interpret anything in court, which he fears in the proposal, that we'll come across as a case. I haven't noticed for so many years that an interpreter or an artist refused. An artist can refuse for certain justified reasons that he can't perform warlocks. An interpreter takes an oath before he comes for an interpreter. She didn't have any problems with court practice. So it's too much to burden the law with that, if the artist or interpreter didn't take the oath, so now they're calling, if he refuses, we'll ask for a second or a third. I don't think it was necessary to intervene in the law, and that's why we need to delete this part, and this amendment is absolutely justified, a team before this case has been recorded as a problem. Therefore, the SRS indicates that the whole bill is based on the wrong solutions. I have to say what's most important, we shouldn't let Paddy Ashdown write to us from the Brcko district law on criminal proceedings. I found many provisions in the law of criminal proceedings written by Paddy Ashdown, identical to the provisions prescribed and found here. I don't think we need that. We have and we have good criminal procedural legislation, and when it comes to warlocks, and when it comes to interpreters, it is in the best possible way in our law regulated. There is a service in the ministry of justice, and through the Ministry of Justice and Artists and Interpreters are registered, and in this case a full list is given in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to the district courts so that they can hire both artists and interpreters for certain areas. But I can't accept that someone else is imposing solutions like Paddy Ashdown, he says, imposed a Brcko district. I've got the law here. I'll quote your members and regulations later. We must not allow ourselves, especially a minister who has been a man of practice for many years, a judge, a lawyer, a minister of justice, an expert. In any case, many things the minister of justice should prevent from entering the law, because the expert public on this law has not been positively expressed and has not given a positive assessment. I don't know if you'll believe me, Mr. Minister, but I have knowledge that there's been a counseling session at the Martha Bath. None of the participants gave positive grades. Only one law professor participated in writing this law, no professors included experts, those who are qualified and who can finish. If what was to be done in this law, it should have been done to make some changes and additions. I will tell you, Mr. Minister, in 2000 we are with excellent experts, and you know them well, who participated in the creation of a valid Code of Criminal Procedure that suffered some minor changes in 2003, were made by really professional people, qualified to whom no one can challenge their knowledge, expertise and qualifications. Therefore, if there was something to intervene in this existing proposal, intervention could only go into so much as to amend and supplement this law. I'll tell you that 11 countries were consulted when the current Code of Criminal Procedure was made and that modern solutions were already taken, and I don't see the need for many solutions offered, you didn't do this, because you don't have time, you have a lot of obligations, anyway, but those who did it, in any case, should have made sure that they didn't violate the unity of criminal-processing law. I propose that this amendment be adopted, because I think there is room and no burden on the law, this is not an innovation that contributes to the improvement of neither text nor solutions in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26621	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26622	Just one little explanation, honestly, I'm a little surprised by what MP Jojic said, and my colleague's lawyer said. I'll give an example, I've tried a man who's been taken into custody, and he's been in custody, speaking Pakistani. I even invited an interpreter in Belgrade, don't talk about the interior, I'm talking about Belgrade now, because I'm talking about these small environments where there's nothing at all, and the interpreter tells me, I know Arabic, but I don't know this, so he had to be heard by his friend who knows Serbian. Then you have to swear it, so he can get the right in his own language to speak and be translated. Another small addition, if that other Pakistani had said, I know Serbian, but I don't know how well to translate it, I won't swear, so would you swear it? I wouldn't. It's that story from the practice of small places, where you don't have 50% language interpreters, and you can imagine when you bring him a man, you have to sort it out, you have to call some language teacher, I'll call him, and then I have to swear to him. That's the whole explanation. Normally, where there are enough translators, there won't be any problems, but you have a small place or situation that requires all of that, so that people are brought in and carried on as soon as possible. That was the reason for bringing this member in, and I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26623	On Article 103, the amendment was filed by MP George Mamul. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan to Article 129. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 136 and Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 137 and Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the title above members 138 and Article 138 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 139 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 140 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the Work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Momcilo Spasic and Zoran Subotic, elected from the election list G17 Plus - Miroljub Labus. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find confirmation of the mandate of the People's MPs Momcilo Spasic and Zoran Subotic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Another announcement, just to wait for the MPs to take their seats, please. You have received resignations from Vesna Obradovic and Branke Bosnjak on the functions of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office, before the time of election, was passed, was chosen by the MPs Vesna Obradović and Branki Bosnjak, elected from the election list G17 plus - Miroljub Labus, on the date of submission of the resignations. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. On Article 146, MP Sreto Peric submitted the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point out one dissatisfaction today when we are discussing a very important law. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia there are fewer MPs than there were in Ljubljana on Saturday, May 13th, where the promotion of the book was held – Professor Vojislav Seselj's testimony in the case against Slobodan Milosevic, if SRS MPs present in large numbers are excluded. I have submitted an amendment to Article 146 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I got the impression, although none of the MPs had ever underestimated Minister Stojkovic's expertise and qualifications, that Minister Stojkovic had taken little part in making this bill or perhaps was burdened with Hague affairs. Of course, neither Minister Stojkovic nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia wonders why Professor Vojislav Seselj's trial in The Hague does not begin after four years, but is likely busy with other affairs. Article 146. The bill regulates specific evidence actions. Special evidence can be carried out in serious criminal acts. My amendment does not refer to challenging these special actions in serious crimes, but I have submitted to Article 146 of Article 4 of the amendment, where it is said "murder, murder and serial rape", I have suggested that the words "serial rape" be replaced by the words "major rape". The government has not accepted the amendment, and it is argued in the explanation that the term "serial rape" is regulated by Article 22 of the proposed code. It says: "Serial rape" in the provisions of this Code (Article 146 paragraph 1 point 4) includes one or more crimes". I think this amendment should have been accepted, so I suggest that the MPs accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26625	The People's MP Petar Jojic, after the amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our terminology and in our right so far, it has not been recorded that serial rape has been defined as a criminal offence. I point out one important fact that this is not allowed to enter into the law, because it still insults dignity. In any case, it could not be accepted as a definition, because it injures and insults fundamental human rights and freedoms. That serial rape, I say, has never been defined in our case-law so far. I know Minister Stojkovic had in his court practice and such crimes, but this definition was not in our Criminal Code, nor was it in the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is not in accordance with the Constitution. Imagine you now release a verdict saying it was a serial rape. If there were two, three, four, five, ten, etc., that would be very ugly. You could say "multiple rape." I am telling the creator of this definition that this has not been accepted in the professional public, and in our public too this term will not be appropriate and therefore it needs to be expelled from our legislation, and it is necessary to accept this amendment submitted by the SRS. There is justification because it is far more appropriate because we have said that in Article 146 paragraph 1 point 4) the words "serial rape" are replaced by the words "multiple rape". That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted, because it is effective and has some legal logic. If it did not happen, as it did in the previous parts of the members, in which the definitions were expressed, instead of being so, and in fact in law and in application it contributes nothing, that something would be improved, that it would be effective, that it would be easier to apply in law, that tomorrow it would be more logical, acceptable and reasonable for judges and law-makers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26627	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 151st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a secret investigator, that is, a secret agent to you is like a spy in bed. It doesn't mean anything else to you. With the introduction of a secret investigator, Serbia will experience something that no country has experienced, and the state of Serbia has never allowed this in its deep and large historical and traditional legal practice. A secret investigator should be installed in a court, in a prosecutor's office, in a municipality, in a school, in a university, in an army, in a company. You'll be installed where no one ever thought you'd find a secret agent. A secret agent is one of your provoking agents who will do us great evil in legal practice, who will accuse many innocent people, who will collect data and open operational processing, who will write official notes and false reports, which will be quiet but dangerous neighbors in your neighborhood. He will write information or a report to be delivered to the prosecutor, the prosecutor will file an indictment on the basis of this information and that will be evidence. Now the question is, where is our principle of directness? Who will know if that secret witness who came to the evidence will be able to face the defendant in court in a conflicting procedure? He won't. The defendant will never see him, but he will see him, and he will come to him and he will be co-operated with by a public prosecutor, and he will be extended by the prosecutor's hand. The secret files that will be opened won't be in 48 years, when the Informbiro Resolution broke out, it won't be the "Sabbe" action, it'll burn and burn you, falsely accusing innocent people of getting hurt. Imagine 2006 or 2007, if there's an application, we're building evidence on a fake agent. What do we need a secret investigator for? It's not this country of wild America and the Wild West. This is a normal state. There are normal citizens living in Serbia, and those who have committed some crimes or crimes will be responsible for it, and there are competent authorities who, in the course of regular service, police, acting preventively and repressively, come up with evidence and give these evidence to the public prosecutor. Mr. Stojkovic, tomorrow when you're not a minister, when a secret agent comes to you, e.g. I'm hiring Secret Agent Krasic Zoran, would that be okay? I would never do that, of course, but remember, I know what Krasic is, he's an honorable man, he'd never set up, but you and I, and we all here have to take care, because this isn't just gonna happen if he adopts himself in this year and next. This could stay for years, and it could cause enormous damage to our citizens for years. Basic human rights will be compromised. This is not in line with the European Pact on Rights and Freedoms, with the Charter of the United Nations, not this. Please, the secret agent will be in all the pores to be found, but no one's controlling him. Who controls the secret agent. When will you be able, Mr. Minister, to control an agent? Let's say, tomorrow you become in some other vault, director, clerk or clerk. How can we control him? Not at all. He'll be first of all an illegal, doing everything undercover. I'd just draw attention, we've got the secret police, we've got the secret police today, we've got the public security service, which is renamed police, criminal, and traffic, and police order, but these people work normally. Imagine what's going to happen, now you'll have a secret investigator for the police, although he also has an inspector. and commanding. And he's got a captain, he's got a general, he's got a minister, but he's going to find himself in those lines that will only plant, and he's going to write that drawing of notes, and he's going to open the file. Now, that's dangerous. In that, we in the SRS absolutely cannot agree, because we are against it at the beginning. He won't help us in our reform of the judiciary or the country's security, he'll help us, he'll help us, he'll make a lot of black- howling citizens. It's a creature that can't be found absolutely in the law, it's a dangerous creation, that's what I have to tell you. I worked in that service, and I know what people can do, what all the coasters can do, it's dangerous. It may be a well-conceived idea, but that idea would be that there's a really clean job to the end, that you'll find a man of honor and honesty who won't do dirty work, who won't bribe, bribe and encourage. The most dangerous thing is that it will be an instigator for the execution of many crimes. And if we found him, he'd be a co-executor and he'd be like an instigator, of course, to get in front of a court of law. But installing a secret agent into Serbia's administrative system in 2006 is a disaster for Serbian citizens, a disaster for the security and security of citizens, for their rights and freedoms. It's such a danger that you have an enemy, and you don't know who your enemy is. Let's just blame the neighbor, the neighbor ends up in prison, in a dungeon. Let's just resent a colleague at work, let him resent some citizen on any basis in the place where he lives, so that citizen has a record right away, that citizen has every day in the morning what he did from 7 to 14 hours one note, one report, what he did from 14 to 24, what he did from 0 to 7, three reports, four will be found, and they are now being monitored and invested. Imagine if his testimony couldn't be checked, that's dangerous. Our regular police are now operating in accordance with the law and the Constitution, but they collect evidence, not evidence, but evidence provides the court, and these evidence is visible and measurable, visible. Now, you see, we're introducing something into the law that our ear is stronger than our eyes. That means what the informant heard, not what you as a judge or as a citizen what you saw or had the case as evidence in your hands. A lot of people are gonna turn that secret agent black. I'm against him because I know this matter well, there's no place for her, believe me. You can offer a hundred and thousands of agents, that doesn't matter, but I can tell you that he doesn't belong here, in our deep confidence. I know from which law this is taken over, and I'll quote it to you later, which in our practice is absolutely impossible to apply. He has no place, he needs freedom and the rights of the citizens to guard and not let anyone raid us and accuse us of innocent citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26629	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Natasa Jovanovic and Verica Radet reported. Natasa Jovanovic, you have four minutes and 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is all Mr. Jojic has told you, so it's possible that it's happening, and when the debate was in principle, I've potentiated the scene from the film about secret agent James Bond 007, and indeed if you want to have such a secret agent and he's doing business in such a way, it's ridiculous, inconclusive and very dangerous. It doesn't confuse me in particular, but it opens up a space for me to think about this point where you say that a secret agent, a covert investigator, that future James Bond, and he didn't say this for free, Mr. Jojic, because with James Bond, there's always some beauty, you know. In that last version, it was Hale Barry, before that another and so on, and he was a man, with an association to it, who said that secret agents act and what they have as a tool. But as for the decision that the Home Secretary or Director of the BIA appoints a secret agent, it's absolutely unacceptable, and on the other hand, it's amazing that you're giving the possibility that even the retired face of the MUP is a secret agent. And who will now recognize Dusan Mihailovic without a mustache and 20 kilos less, and you know that he is prone to it and that he is the one who likes to frame people, to write false charges for The Hague tribunal, as did the case of the party president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to co-operate with traitors like Milan Babic, with others. His plague was the best friend you're talking about. And he was the police minister, so he's a cop. He won't get angry with his colleague Jojic, you know what they say - once a cop, always a cop. But when a minister can find that one and say, you are now in the role of a secret agent, all I don't know is what to do and what kind of operations to do on Dusan Mihailovic himself, he can never come from Pierce Brosnan, you know, but also everything that happens to be camouflaged, and like a nice gentleman, and he's going into a well-organized criminal group and he's doing these jobs, and he's got six months to do it all, you know, what a deadline, all kinds of situations. Well, someone like that, then. An hour like this, like my special agent, you know, there's everything in movies, your imagination can work out in every law, and everything happens, and plastic explosives here, and there, and it's capable of catapulting from BMWs or whatever vehicle it's designed for these situations. Save it, God, really amazing. He mentioned earlier Mr. Jojic who served as a rat for people in 48 years. Some of them are now asking to rehabilitate, while being the main snitches, allegedly staying on a naked island, like that Dragoljub Micunovic. His whole job was to rat out the women, the young women, who, when they were 17, 18 years old, ended up on a long-time sentence on Gol Island, there are examples like that, but I'm not going by name and last name, on seven and eight years in the worst mine, and I've been talking to them with "marvo, cattle" and I don't know how these villains there. The role of Micun was to rat out whether this one works well in the quarry and what he says amongst himself. He has now abstained under this law that you voted to ask him to be rehabilitated. You will still declare Dushan Mihailovic a hero. A covert investigator, a secret agent, entered a dangerous criminal group, exposed terrorists and you say -- he's a hero or some other one. Or, for example, you say -- imagine Nenad Milic was an assistant or deputy interior minister, up to his neck involved in criminal affairs. You know this merceds-benz affair, which also burdens Kljajevic, is also how it relates to him. Or these other police officers, which Djindjic has placed in the position of the Director of Utuba, or BIA, all the villains to the villain. They were able to line people up against the wall and shoot, I don't know where to take them. That's amazing. But you know what the greatest happiness in all this is, which will be radicals to be the future power of both the police minister and the people who will first change such bad legal provisions and will not think to abuse their position. As things stand now, and how they've imagined in their heads that they're capable of doing this or what, here as far as I know this composition of the Serbian Parliament, only these two gentlemen I don't know, the new G17 Plus MPs who came, they came today, good day, and for everyone else believe me how I know them, who the evil couple, I guess one ten thinks they can be secret agents. What people, a lot of Hollywood movies, are going to see, they're going to put a lot of things in their head, a dangerous member of the law, and they're going to be prone to abuse, and don't play with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26631	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26632	To say one thing: it seems Nusic is still alive. He knew the psychology of our people. This is what we've been listening to right now, really beyond the legal profession. From Ilija Cvorović, i.e. Alexa Žunić, to a more solid idea, which was also present in the next 50 years, from informants and similar things. This member has nothing to do with it. But it has something else to do with it. When we spend so much time in one system, the hardest thing is to change consciousness. I have to read it so the people can hear it. He says the undercover investigator, on a proposal from the prosecutor, determines the court, only in those situations. Not what we talked about informants, that someone's sitting there writing notes, so his style isn't the same as what he's saying. The second thing is, at least three persons for the works, so it lists: organized crime, anti-state security, etc. So, organized crime and the most serious of those kinds of crimes. It's the third thing we have to keep in mind. It is explicitly said that a covert investigator cannot, or should not encourage anyone to commit crimes, so that indeed, if we stick to what is written in the article, it is quite clear. So, one mob group that deals with heroin, make sure it's hard to prove, because the law says it's only -- if it's extremely difficult or impossible to prove otherwise, you won't prove it if you don't put your face in that group. Hardly. I think the Mafia is the only way we can master it. To tell you the truth, this provision will only have one problem. There will be few people who will be brave and willing to enter such a group to do this job. I think that's the problem that can torture us, but it really has nothing to do with what my colleague, Pera Jojic, said, with no double beds, no writing, it's that old story. When one talks, the other writes, and he says it's my idea, but it's not style. It doesn't apply to these things and it's past time, and with the passing of time, the new methods will apply, and consciousness will change.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26633	Anyone else want a word? Natasa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26634	It's a funny situation, and if Nusic were alive, he'd keep writing, just to look at you and Kostunica and the whole government, it's clear to him, he could have as much inspiration as he wants. It's not about the Cvorovics at all, or that famous "christs, molests, molests and uncle said there's no running" and such similar passwords that were heard in domestic cinema, and it's mentioned what you were talking about, it's about serious things, Mr. Minister. Do not skip parts of the text. You're a minister and you have to read everything. If you have read nicely – Command to determine an undercover investigator (Article 151.: "The investigating judge may, at the request of the public prosecutor, determine that, for the sake of clarifying and proving a crime committed by at least three persons organised to commit crimes, an undercover investigator" as the fourth. Secondly, I told you nicely, this is not slow, point 1) against the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, 2)against humanity and other goods protected by international law, and otherwise when you put into laws and when you talk about it only declared. The same as, in connection with international law and the right of the defendant to defend himself, when you need to discuss the situation that Professor Vojislav Seselj is four years in the Hague case, you -- it will be explained, will be seen etc. You have no answer. Now, this is just like that, he says - 4) for which a prison sentence has been prescribed for over four years. Now here (3) the position, particularly interesting: ''Special evidence of the position of the 1st member may be extremely determined, and if the condition laid down in Article 1, particular circumstances indicate that the preparation of any of the criminal acts referred to in Article 2, and all facts indicate that there is a serious concern that the execution of the offence in another way could not be prevented or its prevention would be significantly difficult, i.e. irreparable adverse consequences for the life or health of people, the safety of citizens or property of greater value. 'Just explain to me how he's gonna stop it. I already said here that, I was talking about the powers of the minister, the director of the BIA, the person who powers it, amazingly, it's unacceptable that they determine this James Bond. Now says (6) – the undercover investigator, as a rule, is an authorised official of police, and, exceptionally, when justified, can be a retired person. I cited this to you on the case of these two, Dusan Mihailovic and Nenad Milic. These are persons from practice, who were retired and who were a disgrace to the Serbian police. I have now skipped attitude (7): ''A covert investigator may not be a person suspected of being present or formerly a member of an organized criminal group or a person convicted of criminal acts for which the sentence of four years is prescribed or more severe punishment. 'But since you are pushing him,' said fellow Jojic, to be the future perpetrator of these crimes and for which he can be sentenced for more than four years, for abuse and for the fact that he can absolutely be brought back to life with the mafia, with an organized terrorist group, and these are no examples from Nusic, and this is no satire, nor is it anything that should be funny. I've cited the original examples, so people have laughed, they're right about that. But this is really one very dangerous area, which you're going into needlessly, because we have a high-level professional police force, who is willing to work all these cases and on all cases responsibly and securely. I know that, because six months, although we're voting against for other reasons, I'm getting a report from the Committee on the Defence and Security of the MUP and BIA. When it comes to these acts, safeguarding the constitutional order of the country and curbing organised crime, the Committee has never encountered our disdain, nor have we ever in any way had anything to do with it. All we're asking is for it to be more intense, more efficient, and with a high degree of professionalism.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26635	We'll end this in the morning part of the debate, and he'll get the word at 15.10. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26636	Ladies and gentlemen, it's quite different here in the provisions relating to a secret investigator. You see, this is that he submits the report to both the prosecutor and the elder, and to the investigative judge, to three addresses, he sends the reports to three places. Who's controlling these reports? Besides, don't interfere with your mind, Minister, this is a serious matter, it can't be more serious. With the report, the secret agent, your creation, not yours, but the one who forced this to come into the law, that creation will also deliver the secret photos he took, the video and the audio footage, what do we do with you. Is that evidence? Yes, they are for the D.A.'s office. As he came to them, whether it's legal or illegal, is this constitutionally allowed? It's not. I must, unfortunately, tell you, Mr. Minister, do not bypass the Serbian Constitution. Don't. Take the Code of Criminal Procedure of SR Germany, compare and see that many things are not regulated this way in a diversified way. This is a diversional way of getting into the pores of our legal system. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, you know it well, but here for the public, there are no laws on individual cases. The murder of Zoran Djindjic can't be the reason, or any crime that happened individually, that we now have to bring down all the legislation, tear it apart, rip it apart. It's dangerous. In individual cases and in relation to individual cases, laws are not passed. The law is passed in the general interest and applicable to all built on the territory of a state. This, as it is in The Hague, 68 times so far have changed the rules, and you agree, I believe, with whoever judges can't prescribe the rules. It's in The Hague. But in international law, it is not recognised, even in The Hague Court and in the 98 Roman Statute, it is not known. In The Hague, according to Belgrade's orders, that's how it has to be done. (President: Time.) That's what's dangerous for our citizens. Now let me tell you, everything this secret agent does, this spy in bed, I repeat again, don't get me wrong, but it's worse than a spy in bed, it's even uglier and worse, those fake reports will be delivered and those fake reports aren't controlled enough. By delivering it to the public prosecutor, the public prosecutor believes it's evidence for him, because it's in the law. And the photo, and the video, and the audio, and the official notes, and the reports, will all be delivered and the public prosecutor accepts it as evidence. It's dangerous. I'd agree in certain cases, it's not a bad idea in some things, but to decide more than three sworn judges. That's what's dangerous here, which decides tomorrow by the prosecutor as an authority of the administration, and sues and judges. It's dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26637	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We'll take a break in the first part of the debate. Continuing with Article 152. Work start at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26639	We have reached an amendment to Article 152. This member regulates a special means of proof, which is the involvement of an undercover investigator. Article 152 describes his report, but not only the covert investigator's report, but also the police report. Then I get the impression that two organs here are doing the same job. Of course, we are against this concept of an undercover investigator, even when it comes to particularly marked crimes. These are four groups of crimes against constitutional order and security. Why are we against an undercover investigator? I guess the police and security authorities are working to shed light on these crimes, including those of organized crime. What is interesting for Chapter III, the practical engagement of an undercover investigator covers all means of proof. It's not just to determine a police officer, a retired officer or a member of the BIA, who needs to infiltrate that criminal group and come up with some evidence of a possible indictment in the future. Here's the point that he's practically authorized to do whatever other authorities would have to look for a judge's order, photographing, listening, etc. It's all in the hands of an undercover investigator. There's a rumor here that this measure should take six months. A covert investigator shall submit, where appropriate, a periodic report during the duration of the specific evidence actions referred to in Article 151 of this Act. His identity is almost always hidden, regardless of this order because it is determined by the minister, or the director of the agency, and he submits it to the direct elders, the investigating judge and the public prosecutor. We didn't get anything, to be honest. Now the BIA has some reports of its own. If a report is given to another authority, which should be involved in criminal prosecution, in most cases it is not the same, because if it were the same report, then you have no conspiracy, you have no secrecy. At all, this involvement of an undercover investigator is problematic, no matter what he's trying to do here with some very modest limitations to put it in some frame. It's probably the biggest restriction that he can't be an instigator and can't list suspects to criminal acts. Where'd you get a guarantee for that? There's no guarantee of that. That is why we believe that a complete chapter can rather serve abuse than something that helps to detect and detect the perpetrators of a crime. According to this, against the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, these works do not require any covert investigators at all. You could have arrested Goran Svilanovic. He made some statements about the need for Kosovo and Metohija to be declared independent probably did the greatest act of high treason. Just don't tell me it's a statement of opinion and it's a freedom of expression. What is this freedom of expression? There must be some constitutional restriction, and it concerns respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. No one can speak for themselves now, and we all know that this opinion is in agreement with those who demand that Kosovo and Metohija be independent. You feel the same way with this junkie, Chad Jovanovic. It's similar to some in G17 plus, who write books. Not those present, they are not, but some Ceda Antic, who was with Chad Jovanovic when they shared money for a student protest. You don't need any undercover investigators here. Next, against humanity and other goods protected by international law. I don't want to open a topic, but it just sounds nice. If you wrote it like this, you yourself know that these acts against international humanitarian law are covered by Hague and Geneva conventions, Roman statutes, etc. Organized crime from article 21 of this law. I must say, that's where you applied one modified Batic definition of organized crime. The only thing that's affected in that definition is the number of people, minimum, three, because two is said to be a composite, and this is already something else. Then he goes on to say, for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for over four years. I'm not going to make a mistake, but if I tell you that probably more than 60% of the criminal acts in the Criminal Code have been incarcerated for more than four years, so this is really too wide-ranging. A great authority has this undercover investigator, based on these great powers possible abuses. You know for yourself, where there are great powers, there are great abuses, and where there are little powers, there are little abuses. Simply, each phenomenon has its own positive and negative side and it is in some equivalent proportion. If you have a person with this kind of authority, who can do this, I totally understand when you said it, it's not a problem that we wrote it in the bill, but who's going to accept it. So, besides the official authorities, who work to counter crime, on criminal prosecution, we get something else, an undercover investigator as a means of proof. He, of flesh and blood, as a person, as a person, with the materials he provided, and probably 80% is a witness to something that was done, what was arranged, who did, what he did, how he did, etc. I think you're just trying to intimidate these provisions, that this isn't going to produce good results in practice, it's not going to give us good results, because then you should think about protecting that undercover investigator as a future witness. He can celebrate on one case and he's done his job, because if it's an organized crime, you yourself know what kind of awkward situation that man's gonna be with his family. We think it's better to have this whole chapter thrown out, to retain these powers that exist with regard to other evidence. The police and other bodies in the ordinary work are working on these jobs, they can discover, they can pursue, and the discovery and prosecution depends on who's above, to be honest. Our police are capable of ending it. It's kind of tolerated, not from somewhere. Based on some of my information, and I'm not an undercover investigator, the police have a large number of evidence of Dinkic and Labus, a huge number of evidence. Mr. Minister, when those who are fighting organised crime come to your ministry to ask questions about the protection of those who are accused in The Hague and are currently at large, and in other situations, there is a question from your ministry about the police, when you're going to arrest Labus and Dinkic, from your ministry. So, the police know everything, please, they know everything and there's no unknown here. For Labus and Dinkic, you don't need any undercover investigators, those people do everything in public. You're just kidding, you've been on this phone several times in time warned about what you should be doing, where you should focus, so you've had a jump on Laufer, UDB, and after a few months, do it. One of you even defended a lot here, so you said, radicals invent, six months later, here's an APB, he's gone, he's gone. We warn you in time, and in time we inform the public of what exists and why you do not need these means of proof. Mr. Minister, there is also a Privatisation Committee in this assembly. The privatisation committee received an official report from the MUP on serious crime in a privatised company. That's what the police wrote, so let's take away half of it, so the police have a reasonable suspicion, and they claim it at the level of police knowledge. Please, it's about privatising the Traveler, and everyone expects it to be prosecuted, and I don't know what it's called, and it's a big report, so the members of his board of directors took the capital, so as it was sold, so all the board members bought part of the Travellers from one company, etc., with very specific data. You don't need any investigators. But nothing was done. I don't want to list any more institutions that are doing this professionally, who are asking the police: what will be done with Dinkic and Labus. Let go of these terraves, these things, they entertain the public. These are for Europe, and these are not for Europe, and these are for Europe right now, and these are for Europe since September. It's what the citizens read. These MPs have nothing to do with these things, and they're manipulated, but that's their problem, I'm not getting into these things. There's evidence, there's information, everything exists, here's an example where you don't need any investigators. The police have complete knowledge of everything, but it's only a matter of who commands the police, the one who commands the prosecution, the one who commands when he gives the signal -- he can. This law is bad because one who decides when he can give even greater authority. Why don't you need an investigator, to put someone in an awkward situation, maybe some young retired member of the police, who retired in his 50s, and now you're gonna hire him for these things, a team before there's a crime in place, that's probably gonna find out real quick who he is. Make sure that if you go along with this provision and you get the situation to suffer, then whoever passed this law bears the most convincing responsibility. You know, people kind of reason like this, so they say, lucky enough, let some local elections be discussed, even for one community. And you know why, because the government is arresting. When were these three municipalities, Karic. When it was here, someone else. And then there's tension, and, uh, Kostunica wanted to seriously start clearing things up, but as soon as the elections go through, it's all forgotten. This group of journalists immediately invents a new affair, here's a division of this party, here's a division here, now Montenegro, Serbia, just to get it out of hand. You don't need an investigator disguised with this kind of authority, you know you'll have a hard time providing it, you'll know you'll be making a revolution with both the police and the BIA. But let me tell you one more thing, you have some people who aren't prepared for this job. Now that you're chasing this poor young man, you're looking for him, you're sending him, you know what police, the one who doesn't know how to search the apartment and arrest him, that goes the anti-terrorist, the ones who take the cranium into the house and the door and the wall, they're so taught to do the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26640	You're out of time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) One announcement, today we will be working until the end of the item on the agenda at 1800 hours. The 153rd Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26641	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, by proposing that Article 153 be deleted as a whole. A member who I have proposed to delete the ban on inciting a criminal offence, the execution of a criminal offence by a covert investigator, so this secret agent you are proposing in this bill, which is in our professional public, especially in the legal public, very badly accepted, or we can say that he is not accepted, especially by fellow judges, lawyers, prosecutors and professors of law school. That's why the SRS is against the undercover investigator. The minister said it wasn't a secret agent. Mr. Minister, it will be a secret agent, a kind of Alexa Zunic, a senior world spy. The truth is, you suggested he be proposed by the prosecutor and appointed by the court, but it will always be done by the prosecutor, who has a special relationship with the police. It will work and will be infiltrated into all social life pores, so that this will be very negatively reflected in practice and most likely it will not be used by real methods, but by false methods and will often bring false reports, which will abuse the position. Professional police are ready to reveal all kinds of perpetrators of criminal acts and shed light on them very quickly. We consider our police to be professional police, highly professional. Mostly she does not do it secretly, but she does it in the investigation procedure in the most secret, so it is absolutely unnecessary to hire an undercover investigator. In that sense, I think our amendment is justified and needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26642	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26643	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Koprivica and MP Zoran Krasic have pointed out and expressed their opinion and opinion of the SRS what the secret investigator means and what evil is being built into our legal system. As provided for in Article 153(3), it is normised and proposed, if the order of the investigative judge provides, the covert investigator may use technical means to record the conversations, i.e. the means of photography or sound and video recording, in which the provisions of Articles 146 and 147 of this Code will be applied accordingly. You see one great danger. That is what we must bear in mind, because Serbian citizens expect and must expect the MPs to pass a valid law that protects their rights. See what is proposed in Article 153(4): "For the purpose of carrying out the actions of the third member's position, the undercover investigator has the right to enter the other person's apartment and other rooms and his conduct does not have the character of illegality." Aman, for God's sakes, could anyone have guessed that something like this would be proposed before this prominent parliament of the Republic of Serbia? We said that our criminal, civil and administrative right wants to be in line with European standards, so countries: France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Great Britain, Wales, the United States, so both continental and Anglo-Saxon. If we've been relying on German law lately, when it comes to breaking into the apartment and searching the apartment, I will now read you the provision of Article 13. The constitution of SR Germany. Article 13: "The apartment is invulnerable. According to the Constitution of SR Germany. ) This measure can only be applied by the court's decision, and by a larger one in the composition of the three sworn judges of the permanent composition." We've got a secret agent coming in whenever he wants. Here, you sit in parliament today, work here and imagine a secret agent saying: we're going to search these from one or this party, he's in the Assembly today, his wife is at work, let's get into his apartment, set up the lock, the keys, get in, and into every corner, and we'll put the wire into bed, and the bugs, and the secret cameras. How does modern Europe and the countries of Europe do this with developed rights, on a higher level? What does paragraph 13 point 6 say? The constitution of SR Germany? "The federal government annually informs the Bundestag of the use of technical means, based on Article 3, as well as on the law." The body educated by Bundestag, based on this report, is carrying out parliamentary control, and other countries entering the SR of Germany are also educating bodies that will exercise control, each state parliament within the SR of Germany is carrying out parliamentary control. I ask the proposer's question and ask for an answer, to answer us with Serbian radicals, because we disagree with the fact that he can get away with something like this, to be extorted in a hurry. How can a secret agent break into apartments, houses and other rooms of the owner without a decision from a larger three judges? He can't. In Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, apparently that some of the Constitution is bypassing and think that Serbia has no Constitution, has a Serbian Constitution, if there is a need to intervene on the Constitution, Serbia can only bring changes and additions to its constitution. Should the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure be made? Yeah, maybe in some minimal parts. What's going on? The Code of Criminal Procedure of the SRS of 2000, 346 members, 116 semi-prescripted, and 70 and a new member, signed under the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Brcko District, by order of Paddy Ashdown. So Paddy Ashdown is the creator of certain provisions in our code. That's what's dangerous about us and we don't need it. We have good court experts, law schools, law firms, other lawyers who work in state bodies who don't support this. So, the secret agent gets powers of not being in any state. I have a translation of the Code of Criminal Procedures of Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Italy, the Great Kingdom, so Great Britain and Wales, and the United States. With the help of the translation done by us, in collaboration with the Institute of Comparative Law, we have done the best and most modern criminal code. You can see for yourself, I can give you, gentlemen MPs, if you like, since the motionary did not allow us to translate any laws. And I have to tell you that criminal law of the SRJ, and the Criminal Code of Serbia and the Code of Criminal Procedure of Serbia, and earlier the Code of Criminal Procedure of the SRJ, that is, Serbia-Montenegro, please, have just been agreed long ago. So, when we did it, which group was entered by the strongest experts, people of experience, 30, 40 years in colleges, prosecutors, courts, police and law firms. Now that you are offered one text of the Code of Criminal Procedure which cannot be trusted, whose provisions question the freedom and rights of citizens, the SRS is energetically against it and does not agree that this act is adopted as it is. What kind of innovation is that if you copy from the previous code 346 members, then semi-rewrite 116, what are those innovations? But innovation is now a public prosecutor to take over the investigation as an authority of the administration, the police to conduct the investigation as an authority of the administration. The laws of the Western countries have the term of police, but I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, it's the judicial police, not the administrative police, and the judicial police are also doing investigations and taking certain steps to collect evidence for the indictment, but as judicial police, not the police as an authority of the administration. Our police acting she acts operationally, she acts as an authority of the administration, and I don't know, so we haven't shown the need for any changes in a while, because these aren't the changes we need at this point. The investigation, that your investigation is being conducted by the public prosecutor and the police, and that based on their evidence actions, and in fact they should be non-proving actions, but they should be evidence collected by the authorities. And now you will have the authority of a public prosecutor, a public prosecutor deprives freedom, a public prosecutor determines detention, a public prosecutor is leading the investigation, a public prosecutor is pressing charges, a public prosecutor for up to 10 years now has the right under this law to conclude an agreement with the defendant or defendant. And what happens, then what do you have? Then you have the prosecutor sued and the prosecutor ruled, because he has now reached an agreement with the defendant on the level of punishment and the type of punishment. Now, that's not exactly what we're supposed to do in Western countries, and it's not regulated. I have to be honest with you. I'm amazed when I'm told and when you're spoken to as MPs and said this is in line with European standards. Well, that's not true. I ask the question: which of the MPs has received any translation of the law to which someone is called, or France, or Germany, or Belgium, or Switzerland, or the Great Kingdom, etc.? The MPs never get a translation of the law in order to be able to control the proposing, so that the motionary doesn't push us around and deceive us, even if it's us or you, it doesn't matter, but the MPs have to get a translation of the law they're calling for to be harmonised. (Chairman: Time) I'll finish, I apologize. From 1945 to today, 12,000 laws are in line with European standards and world standards. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we Serbian radicals think of the bill. I tried to explain to you, and I want to assure you, I have the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, and from it you will see the provisions, and I have the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Federal Republic of Germany translated. But, please, against these provisions, and these proposals and these anti-constitutional solutions, we must fight. And believe me, as far as we as radicals are concerned, don't, gentlemen, not you MPs who make a coalition and you who are in power, to go over certain things, don't believe those who come to suggest that this law is the best in the world, don't believe it. Believe me, but let someone give you an authentic translation of the laws of a democratic country, some countries with developed rights, because Hamurabi's Law, Dušan's Code and the 12 tables didn't know this, but they had better solutions than they offered here. That's why we're against it, not getting into a situation like it was 66, so 48, let's go back. Believe me, our citizens, I'm telling them from this place, if the criminal code is passed, they have to look into it, they have to be afraid, they have to be afraid who's going to listen to them, who's going to follow them, who's going to film them, and what needs it's going to be used for. There's no legal certainty after this, you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26644	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26645	The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for two very suspicious institutes. These are: a protected witness and an associate witness. When we in our SRS parliamentary group discussed the proposal for this code, when we agreed on making amendments, we agreed not to submit amendments to the Institute of the Protected Witness. He's not necessary, but let's not say that we're against all of your so-called. innovation. We have calculated that a protected witness will be used in some specific situations, where it may be necessary, not necessarily, there are other ways, but let's say that some random passerby will witness some robbery, some murder, etc., and that such a man would not be prepared for a reason of personal security to testify to that event. So we left that institute the way you predicted it. But the Institute of Witness Associates, according to the SRS, absolutely cannot be in our legal system. It seems to me that the only "legal basis" for the establishment of this institute is the famous "Sabbe" action. In this action, witnesses-co-workers came up with such a special expression, and I also said in principle debate, and now I repeat, the witness-sardnik is today the most profitable interest in Serbia. What does that mean? It means that someone can do the most serious crimes, they can rob, they can kill, and when they get bored with going to a public prosecutor and saying, "Here, I'd like to be a model citizen, I'm sick of this, but I don't want to go to jail, and then ask the prosecutor nicely and say, "I want to be an associate witness, you free me from my sins, and on behalf of the state, and in the name of the prosecution, and on behalf of some lobby, I'm going to charge whoever you want, for whatever you want." Unfortunately, this is how it happens in Serbia. I'm not going to talk about the abuse and role of an associate witness, let's just say, in this criminal procedure for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, some others are taking care of it, but I'm going to talk about witness associates in the Ovcar criminal procedure. Again, I don't know which time I'm using this, I repeat that the criminal procedure was ordered by The Hague tribunal, and that is the type of co-operation between the Serbian government and the Serbian authorities with The Hague tribunal. Since, well known to the public of Serbia, the indictment against Vojislav Seselj has been extended, because it was not possible to find any evidence of what the previous indictment was accused of, of course, there is no evidence of this extended indictment, and that is why mounted proceedings are being ordered, and then you have witnesses, two co-workers, whose statements are crucial to the court's decision. No one cares about the court council that these witnesses are the perpetrators of these crimes and that crime in Ovcara, but that is why they should serve that possibly The Hague tribunal and this special court in Serbia find some connection between Vojislav Seselj and the crime. Of course, there was nothing from that job, despite all the efforts and prosecutors, and the judges, and those witnesses, it was not possible to link any SRS volunteer to this crime, so even the president of the judicial council, when he explained the verdict, when he publicly announced it, said that he was very sorry that he could not prove war crimes in the way he intended it, or sorry that he could not blame the two people who were SRS volunteers, who tried to protect witnesses that he had failed, thank God, dragged into this crime. So this was an example, and there are more and more examples in Serbia today, and there will be more and more of them, and especially now that you regulate it and when you regulate this code. And even if we were eventually to introduce this institute into our legal system, which we certainly won't, then this Article 156 would really have to endure a lot of changes. That is why, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that this member be deleted, primarily because of the principled attitude of the SRS, and of course because of possible abuses, and because of the example and which I have cited and some of which I will not talk about here today, but which, of course, are known to the public of Serbia. The newspapers are filled with statements from protected witnesses, people read it, entertain it or do not entertain it on behalf of those statements, and it is commented - did you read what he said in that conversation on the phone, what he said, what he saw, and the point is that this institution is protected by the biggest criminals in Serbia. So it will likely be from the application of this law, and that these criminals are in the role of judicial authorities in Serbia, and since the good part of the judicial authorities in Serbia is in office of the government or the executive authority in Serbia, then it is easy to connect and make the trail from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to that co-worker witness, who, as I said, is willing to accuse whoever and for whatever it is told. He doesn't have to know this man, he doesn't have to have heard of this crime, but it's gonna be a special prosecutor for him or for organized crime or for war crimes to write, he's gonna read it well, his identity is hiding, his statements are coming out of the case file. So, who said, what he said, who he led to, it remains a secret between the prosecutors, the court and the man who did it, or who said it, but most sadly of all, that it is a verdict of evidence in a court council that judges in such a case, and that the one on whom he shows his finger, who resents one of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, don't give God Dinkic, for example, he's going to tell Veli Ilic or some of those ministers who call themselves a lot in public, and now he can't even say that one of those ministers is a thief, to deal with criminal affairs, because if he finds out, he'll be nice to him in the neighborhood to find a criminal, and then that criminal will testify that this man is neither guilty nor guilty, just because he doesn't like the government of the Republic of Serbia, to end up on several years in prison. In order to get in the way of this, we have suggested that this Article 156 be deleted, because the existence of an associate witness actually encourages the execution of criminal acts. Because someone who might have a little sense of crime, so he's thinking, so far he might have been thinking about whether to engage in a robbery or not, but now that the law on criminal proceedings is prescribed by the witness-co-worker institute, then he'll easily engage, rob, kill in that robbery, if necessary, if anyone gets in his way, because he knows he won't answer for it, because he can make a deal with the prosecutor. In the first position of this member, the Proposer tells us - the court may suggest that a person suspected of being a member of a criminal organisation be heard as a witness and admitted explicitly. Imagine, it's an associate witness. So, a member of a criminal organization, a man who has committed a crime, he is, according to this code, a witness associate and is dependent on him for the fate of a criminal case, or some people covered by a certain criminal record. Also, you say in the second position, that the person in Article 1 could become a witness associate needs to meet the following conditions: ''2) that it can be reasonably expected that the importance of his testimony for the detection, proof or prevention of other criminal acts of the criminal organisation is significantly more difficult (imagine this expression, significantly more difficult) than the harmful consequences of the crime that he has established. '"What is significantly more difficult than the adverse consequences? What if someone committed a murder? What's significantly more difficult than someone's life, than someone who's been killed? I really couldn't explain it to myself. The next condition under which someone may be a witness is ''that according to the existing factual state can be assumed that establishing important facts in criminal proceedings would be impossible or significantly difficult if the witness-co-worker were not heard. '"What does this mean significantly difficult? It means that in this way it seems to be some sort of concession to this special council, special these courts, since they are otherwise formed under special circumstances, their most special circumstances are three times higher wages than their colleagues who may be doing harder jobs and harder cases than they do in these so-called. Special departments. I really don't understand, Minister, what this means, or very difficult. If it's significantly difficult to determine a crime, that means it's possible. Now, in order not to make this much bigger, there are some big problems and it would not work under very difficult conditions, you offer him this proposal as an associate witness and he doesn't have to do anything but listen to four walls without witnesses and without the public presence of that witness-co-worker. You say the government does not accept this amendment, and, among other things, according to new more complete solutions, the witness co-worker can also be used in crimes against constitutional arrangements and security and crimes against humanity and international law. If it's said in criminal acts, then there are other crimes, not just those that you listed here. You're saying that a significant newspaper is also being entered in respect of the consequences of fulfilling the duties of an associate witness, in the sense that it is defined to be reduced by one half, with an interesting possibility for the court, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, to find the witness associate guilty and free him from punishment. However, in the event that a co-worker witness fails to fulfil his duty, he acquires the status of the accused and further proceedings take place, etc. This settlement, which you have tried to explain here why you do not accept our amendment, goes in favor of our request for the amendment to be accepted and that this member is deleted, because you clearly told us that the witness associate is being punished within the limits of the prescribed law, but is being reduced by one half or can be freed from punishment at all. What does that mean? Two or three people from the same mile around commit the same crime, and one because, I don't know, in some robbery, he beats up and gets a five-year sentence, and one who killed the other in that same robbery, he's going to get much less or he's going to be released because he's done it to the prosecutor and the court council, so he gave them his vision, that is, his testimony. (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you. We've got more amendments in this group that refer to an associate witness and you'll still hear our reasons why we don't think this should remain in the criminal code. So I ask my colleagues to accept these amendments in voting day. Otherwise, with a code like this, without intervention of at least these amendments, the judiciary goes away, God forbid.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26646	Are there any other MPs coming in? No, I don't. ) On Article 157 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Alexander Vucic, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, since I assume that a slightly larger number of Serbian citizens are watching this session than there are present, we have introduced the Institute of Witness Associates into our legal system. I guess some have calculated that this is the key and most important opportunity for those who are inadequately condemned to something that they wish they could condemn, and that the greatest and worst criminals release any criminal prosecution or liability. We in our society have all sorts of examples of criminal activity, since what I was saying this morning, about the real media criminal activity, and I came here to tell the citizens of Serbia, because they lie a lot on television and what is really happening in the Serbian Parliament, so let some of them, and especially those who lie so much, that I don't have a single word to react to it. Namely, DS MPs, this thieving yellow company, held a press conference today, still, that Serbian citizens know, steal and take money from them here, and do not appear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These thieves today said, in Serbia, the government, I don't know, the government of Serbia, the SPS, the DSS, the G17, the SPO, and they're being assisted by radicals, and that's what you see about the mandate. And now, I tell this to radicals who couldn't hear it, says that genius Petrovic or Sutanovac, I don't know, it's a dead race that's a bigger genius, he says, it's because of the privatisation process, so you don't know what business interests are. You know what business interests are like. Now we're going to talk about these business interests, since we didn't participate in any privatisation, not in the one that was fairly done and not in that robbery, and unlike them, I have a great desire to talk about these privatisations, especially witnesses, Mr. Minister. Namely, those who are telling us, and you must be planning them for your future coalition partners, you probably think that you will rule them in a successful way, so at least I heard and read your MP Dragan Shormaz's statement, those are the same ones where the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been accused of stealing half a million euros from your account alone and in the privatisation of Cementara in Novi Popovac. Is that right, Mr. Minister? The other, a security adviser, has been charged with slightly more than 600,000 euros, and only in one privatisation, as they mentioned privatisation and various jobs. I didn't hear we were in some kind of privatization or something. As far as the mandate is concerned, the SRS will act in the same way every time. We're the only ones damaged, and we're the only ones who can't get those two kidnapped mandates back, because we don't have a blank resignation. The political parties in the elections will have as many seats as they won in the elections. Whether we think better of Goran Paunovic than of Mladjan Dinkic, there is no doubt, but it has nothing to do with mandates because their party has decided otherwise. Enough to lie, enough to make up, and then some decided they could act against the law and do what they wanted. And those thieves from the yellow company DS say, I don't know if you could hear it, no less than seven mandates have been stolen. Citizens of Serbia, you must know one thing, because I know MPs know it, no matter what MP group they belong to. They stole the DSS mandate of Ambassador Novak Djokovic and transferred him to the DS, Dragisa, I apologize, Novak Djokovic is an honorable man, he is a good tennis player of ours and I apologize to that honorable family, unlike these others. So, this man, this Dragisa Djokovic, says, as if I wasn't elected on the DSS list, but on the DS list, and from now on I am their MP. And they want someone to legalize them with pure theft, and if you don't legalize them, then they're going through their dirty media, like B92, to tell you that here you are, I don't know what you're involved in, which is not in accordance with citizens' interests, or worse, which is not in accordance with the law. We won't vote for any law. It doesn't come to our mind. I think we voted for only one act of a similar nature, a general act voted in this assembly, not counting on those around Kosovo and the Metohija that we all seem to have adopted together in the National Assembly. We have no idea that we are acting the way the Democratic Party, G17 plus, the SPS or any other political party would want. Let's get back to thieving, Mr. Minister. You couldn't find an associate witness to confirm how much money those yellow thieves stole from Belgrade Airport, the one where the ficus was 45,000 dinars. It used to be, and now it's at 75,000 dinars. Did your wife ever buy a ficus, which I have great respect for, of the 75,000 dinars? I didn't hear. Veronica, did you ever buy a 75,000 ficus? You don't even have one to buy in our country. Where did they find him, Minister? Where does that ficus grow? If there's pineapple on that ficus, what's on that ficus so much it costs, I don't know what it's got. But there doesn't seem to be any witness associates for them or anyone else. I went out to remind the ruling majority again. We will send a fundamentally reasoned letter to the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, in which we will seek an explanation of the behaviour of certain media houses, primarily related to the B92 Radio and Television, which requires open-ended decapitation of the head of Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic. It's recorded material and they don't apologize to anyone afterwards. It's even a normal, good job. I said it wasn't a problem for them to cut our heads off, but don't let them make us those little acid heads that he imagined it would already be a crime. It doesn't make sense for someone to look at us with their heads down when we're not that small. And it wouldn't be so bad in the trunk, and now that they're making an exhibition out of little heads, it's too morbid for both the Democratic Party and the B92. We warn you, Mr. Minister, I ask you to pass it on to your possibly superiors, if this is to remain the 17th item of the agenda as it was, the programme council and the programme board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, as you have imagined, we will leave all the committees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then see how you will proceed. Then they're not far from the other moves we can make, because that violates the basic rules we agreed on at the beginning of the assembly's functioning. We have no problem with those who lie and make things up. Immediately to inform some who said, in some newspapers they wrote, that I saw myself, they heard more than Paunovic, and Paunovic told me that he never said that, that we had seen Nikitovic, Dinkic and I on an abortion. I've never seen Dinkic outside the National Assembly building. There's nothing left for me but to file a lawsuit and wait to see what the court says. I've heard a lot of stories and many different inventions. The bad guys from the yellow company obviously don't have better jobs, they have a few people who'll just come up with fiction, they won't do anything else. It's our job to warn you about that, because there's been plenty of time for the witness-co-worker. It was past a time in Serbia in which Chume was the most valued figure, in which Chume could decide and determine who was the murderer and who was the honest man. It was a time when Chumet's best friends ruled Serbia. It's been a while since they've been recruiting citizens and taking them money. A new time is coming, and time will pass and those anti-Serbian media who think it's their only job to get along as much as possible about the SRS. Let them do their job, but be assured it won't help them. That is why I expect great help from the citizens of Serbia, and to see about these corruptions and the witness associates. You know who the mayor's assistant in Belgrade is, Mr. Minister? You don't know. I didn't know either. He's not in the organisational scheme, he's not in the Law on Local Self-Government, he's not in the Statute of the City, but he has an assistant mayor, Gorica Mojovic, with the office of assistant mayor. Who gave it to her. You don't know. I ask you, you rule with them, Mr. Minister, it's those who accuse you of ruling with us, and in fact they rule with you, kidnap and steal money from Belgrade. Have you heard of this function? You're not. Here, I'll keep you posted. Here, Mr. President, within five minutes, I'll bring you a paper, a photographed door, and you can see a picture, a name and a name, of what it says on the door. I don't want to ask you who, how and what jobs he gets, whose sons, whose brothers and sisters, how many buildings. And those thieves, Mr. Minister, and you know they're the biggest thieves, I know what your political interest is, I know what political opportunism is. As you and how many of your associate witnesses will need, it will take a million witness associates to catch up with all their thieves, but in these millions, there will be a few witness associates who could agree with some honest people. So it's better to go straight by law, we have a lot of norms that we can pursue, and witness associates, you making them up, we absolutely don't need them for anything. So far, they have served only for political abuses and various kinds of machinations of government. Thank you for that. And once again warn the ruling majority, if they adopt that, you will see how the National Assembly works. It's not our wish. It is our desire that everything works in accordance with the agreement in the Assembly, but when you attack the minority in such a way, when you attack the opposition sharply, we have nothing left to do but defend the interests of the Serbian citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26648	I did not interrupt you, not because I am not focused, because I have no problem with it, but because I have realized that two separate sentences, those relating to the fact that all current MPs, in accordance with the law, are raising receipts around their activities and those relating to the fact that some of them are additionally burdening the budget, may be inadequately estimated by citizens working, but they will judge citizens. The second is what you've been saying with a lot of epithets, which are not about MPs, but about other categories. I understand that they do not refer to MPs because then I would have to warn you to say that for the pay phone, and that is the only reason I am not. As for what's written on the door, you know I have to follow up on the official memos, and at the door, I've seen myself, it says a lot. On the occasion of the same amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26649	Before I move on to the defence of the amendment, to ask Mr. Minister, in April of this year, a year has ended since five SRS MPs, otherwise members of the Committee on Culture, wrote a criminal report, signed, filed a criminal charges against Ljiljana Cetinic, director of the Yugoslav Museum of History, related to the exhibition where 29 of Tito's watches were stolen and sold in America for 6.5 million dollars after a week. On account of all those thievings that were done at the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, I had the opportunity to see that there were some Tito's gold posters of 750 grams, with 20 and 30 brilliants, the next box of empty, next box of 350 grams of gold of 18 cards with 23 diamonds, the next box of empty etc. You're complaining that they've got a lot of work to do. For a year and a half, the SRS has been waiting for this criminal application to be initiated, and therefore we ask you, Minister, to see, as soon as tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, what is the fate of the criminal report. It was handed over at the Second Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, so it was supposed to be in the District for property. Please, look at that. By the way, speaking of witness associates, Mr. Minister, do you know where your associate witness named Ljubisha Bhuha Chuma is now? He's gone, the police don't even mention him anymore, and he doesn't know where he is. They kept him safe for a while, and the most impoverished place was the first three or four months when you kept him in Central Prison, in a separate room, so no one bothered him and no one threatened him. And then you sent, not you, but the law that came into effect then, sent him home and a platoon of cops to guard him daily. Tito didn't guard as many cops as the Chummet guard. What do you have from that associate witness when he's gone, look, maybe Bugsy and VMA will get away. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from a criminal to create an associate witness and forgive him for the crime he should go to long-term prison for is truly inhumane, inhumane, inhumane. I don't think you need this witness-coworker institute anywhere, you don't need anything, it's abused at every step, it costs this country a lot. Look, now the state needs to pay to keep criminals from criminals. And they're providing Chad with security, but he hasn't signed that witness associate yet, he will soon. He'll seem to be a regular witness-co-worker. I suggest that the witness-co-worker institute be completely abolished, and this amendment by Mr. Zoran Krasic to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26650	Members of the 158th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I own a copy of the 1948 Criminal Procedure Act. It is yellow, it is yellow, but at the time it had some similar norms and similar principles on which to form a reform or form a new right with us. In this law, chapter two, it says - The Code of Criminal Procedure is based not only on the principles of advanced science, but also on the principles built by our practice during NOB. Here we go, Mr. Minister, be careful if this is, if we follow the five-eyed revolution. Let me just quote it one more time, to remind you, and you know what it looked like in 1948. So, the Law on Criminal Procedure in Chapter Two: ''The Code of Criminal Procedure is based not only on the principles of advanced science, but also on the principles built by our practice in the course of NOB. ''You see, our NOB ended in 1941-1945, that was the period, and after the end of World War II there were three years left. Is this similar to what we had in practice, is this the result of the five-eyed revolution? It shouldn't be like that, I don't think the promoter and the representative think so. But I just wanted to remind you how it was in 1948, how the Code of Criminal Procedure was written. So, what Mr. Krasic says, God forbid we continue such a tradition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 158. Proposal for a law on criminal proceedings. Item 1: ''If the person considered to be heard by the public prosecutor as a co-worker witness is subject to criminal charges or criminal charges, the public prosecutor will press charges against the person before submitting the proposal to be heard as an associate witness or to press charges for the crime of organised crime (Article 21) and shall request the merger of proceedings with a case in which the person is to be heard as an associate witness. '"There's a big problem here. It's a matter of being related to a crime. Is it a crime against constitutional order or is it a crime, which we now have in this affair concerning the Supreme Court and the arrest of several Supreme Court judges, where they are accused of organised crime. There are crimes against the people and the state, there are crimes against the official duty, there are crimes against the lives and bodies. Say, serial rape, we talked about it today, organized crime. Criminals agree to rape serially in Serbia, as did the Cypriots of Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, none of these Shiplars responded. The question now arises whether there is justification, whether there are sufficient legal reasons, formal-technical and formal-legal, to bring the proceedings together. Mr. Minister, there is one anomaly and something that is unacceptable in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I cannot understand that everyone can file criminal charges; therefore, a Serbian citizen can file criminal charges, public authorities to file criminal charges, but it is impossible to file a criminal report with an authorised official of the internal affairs authority. What is it now? So citizens can also other entities, legal and physical persons, but police cannot file criminal charges under the bill, only a notice. What's behind the notice? That notice is very problematic. The police will file criminal charges against a certain person, the public prosecutor will receive a notice, the public prosecutor is watching and saying, if, from which party he is from, let's see which party this party is from. Next, the prosecutor will say, we're not going to seduce this police notice into the KT directory but the KTR. In KTR, and all this can be done in the drawer and then the public prosecutor has no obligation to notify the applicant of the criminal charges, or the police of the fate of what happened with the criminal charges. Now there's one deal between the ruling coalition that's in power, or this or some future one, and now the prosecutor is agreeing with the representatives of the authorities, so they say, you know, there's been a notice, but it says in the notice that he committed serious crimes, but since there's no criminal record status, but it's a notification, I'll see that notice, and I'm going to seduce the KTR executive, we can file it. There's this issue when it comes to hearing an associate witness. First of all, there won't be the same crime in all cases. He won't be an accomplice or an accomplice to that crime. These are the problems we point to and we believe that there is room for these solutions to be removed in any way from the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26652	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26653	We really must, for the sake of the public, and if we can influence the MPs to accept these amendments, draw attention to what's going on with this witness associate. We have just crossed Article 157, where the duties of an associate witness have been described, but above all, in terms of the conclusion of a protocol with a public prosecutor, a sort of settlement, where he assumes his duty to testify. Based on the experiences we now have here, especially what is happening in The Hague tribunal, there are such witnesses there, though, there are called protected witnesses. One of them was Milan Babic. You know, he committed suicide, because he couldn't take that pressure anymore, Carla del Ponte. He first witnessed the case against Milosevic, so since he could not stand to be protected with a disfigured face and voice, he asked for a public witness. After that, he got the indictment, went straight to a deal with the prosecutor, accepted the obligation to accuse, testify, everything and everything to do. As he testified in the case against Milan Martic, it happened that he committed suicide because he simply couldn't stand the pressure. He left a suicide note. Of course, these witnesses of our co-workers, in our court, don't think they're committing suicide, because they make much better deals, because they're the prosecutors who don't ask for what that Carla del Ponte is asking for. Here the author of this bill wanted to be a little bit normal and wanted to show how he knew something. There's a big moral problem in the witness-co-worker, I'm talking about status, and I'm talking about an associate witness institute. Is it moral, based on the testimony of a completely verified criminal, because that status only has persons who have committed and admitted to committing a crime, is it moral and is it to the benefit of the truth that they appear as witnesses of prosecutors in the case against their accomplices or members of an organized group? For some of his conveniences, which is the possibility of getting only half the punishment from the one prescribed by law, he is able to prepare the testimony that anyone wants. I've had a chance to read some of the witness-co-worker records in several cases being conducted in front of these courts. On the first day of testimony, an associate witness, based on what was stated in the record, was literally a mutated person, who did not know what he wanted to say, who mixed both grandmothers and frogs, dates, events, etc. The next day, according to the record, it was a very precise and eloquent chronicler of the events of a strong criminal group. It took only one night for his testimony to be honored, not only in terms of grammar, but also in terms of the logical trail of events and exposure to one situation. I don't think that's moral. If we go back to Article 158, which speaks of a specific process of bringing the criminal proceedings together, then we will have a situation where the accused persons, and among them the witness associate, are sitting in the same order, and a question arises on whose side the witness is an associate. He's on the side of whoever's representing the charge. How is he who stands by the defendant sitting with the defendant? There's one more thing I have to warn you all. We have not submitted amendments concerning those provisions, I think they are. 33rd and 34th, where the matter of the merger and separation of the criminal proceedings is being discussed when there are more indictees. In both mergers and separations, given that this bill is not allowed to appeal against that solution, I must point out that there is not a very important principle, which is in the function of independence and independence of the judiciary, but also the right of the accused to a fair trial, the principle of a natural judge is invalid. So we come to the situation that, I think it was called Vesko Knezevic, to judge both the witness-co-worker and the accused, and based on a statement of a co-worker's witness, who was brought on by the prosecutor, he punished some, or convicted, gave enormous sentences, time sentences to prison, and even for some for whom there is no evidence that the perpetrators of the crime, and the witness associate became a visible person who was praised by Natasa Kandic. You can imagine when Natasha Kandic praised something. As soon as you see a court or some court case, and in public you get the knowledge that it is commended by Vojin Dimitrijevic, Sonja Biserko, Vuco, Kandic, and some Milic, as I believe, knows something, knows these new Western European terms, stained there some new concepts, insert into our legal life, although it does not exist, we have much better words for these things, as soon as they appear, know that the trial is absolutely staged, know that it is a false witness, who is able to lie everything just to save himself. That's how the bloody Bora appears, the pathological killer, and I don't order those artistic names. It's the same for you in this procedure, I don't know what the subject of these organized groups is called. I believe that many of the provisions of our Code of Criminal Procedure are written by the system "seen a frog where horses are weaved, and so did she. " This is a purely forensic bill. In this law, you have little to do with the rights and freedoms guaranteed, the rules of procedure, which are in the function of establishing the truth and in the function of not making a mistake when determining the criminal responsibility of a person. There are very few such provisions. They may be prescribed from the existing one, but there are a lot of standards that have been prescribed, and they had to undergo a change, because there is a big hole in some norms in the existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26654	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, as I promised everyone, you can see, says: "Gorica Mojovic, assistant mayor". You see, everyone, it says clearly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's your scheme from the official website of the city of Belgrade: mayor, deputy mayor, city manager, chief architect. There's no assistant mayor anywhere. That way, for 15 months, the law is broken, and no one's having any controversies. How is the budget adopted, how is money spent, where are the salaries paid for that formation place, or place by systematization, when it is not available, for secretaries, drivers and everyone else? How's the bill, the team, the gas and everything? There's no answer to that from the government, since you're with these "yellow" thieves. Since I showed you this, here you go, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, to make sure I didn't lie. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the witness associates are concerned, I think we've already said enough. It is a frightening fact that in our country many longing to become witnesses and yearns for being forgiven for doing numerous crimes, sometimes the most serious crimes possible. For what? Just so they can help one political elite deal with another political elite and for nothing else this institute in our country is serving. It is not true that this helped to shed light on certain crimes. They haven't lit anything alive. Here is today some verdicts are returning from the Supreme Court to the District Court, to rejuvenation, with the most severe penalties, etc. Now, in all that, I'm sorry there's no minister here, because he's been telling us all the time about the new institutes, the promotion of the work of the prosecution, our courts, so I'd read it to him once more, I apologize to the citizens, I read it the other day, and I didn't hear the prosecutor react. I don't know if you heard, Mr. Vice President, I'd like you to let me know. Namely, on this TV Democratic Party B92, so on their television, they openly propagated not hate, but demanded murder, and this ritual killing, by cutting off the head of SRS Vice President Tomislav Nikolic. They just happened to mention me. I'm not worried that they're going to cut off their heads, but they're going to cut them down into some acid, so we're going to look like we've got less heads. Like this, a certain villain named Vukasin Nedeljkovic. I see some have already remembered, they know about it. Did you listen originally? So we're not lying about this, are we? Thank you, colleague, no matter what you're from another political party and you belong to another political option. So, this guy, Vukasin Nedeljkovic, on a recorded show, is very important for the citizens of Serbia and for the prosecutor for treating the TV of the Democratic Party B92, so Radio B92, in fact. They say, among other things: I'm thinking about whether or not these people are killed. He was still thinking about whether to kill people or not. And then he made a decision, and he says, and then I remembered, when I was in Oxford, there was this museum of an adventurer who went around the world and he was collecting all kinds of things, so you have what the Eskimos wore in the 19th century, so Africans, so Arabs, etc. And then you go into one piece, I don't know how you'd translate it, like a reduced head, and I'd do it with Nikolic and Wolfie. So, by cutting off their heads, I'd put them in that acid to cut their heads off and make an exhibition. It's nice to have an exhibition and what to do with our heads. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, no one has responded to this. I ask the Minister of Justice, what would happen today in Serbia if it were not for God's sake for someone who had anything to do with the SRS to do with someone else? Not that we'd all be arrested, but some would hang on the terraces, and the rest would be caught behind bars, and you'd ban the party for a long time. There are no things that some in this country, in the name of God's democracy, and in fact, in the name of survival in power at all costs, are not ready to implement and do today. And today we've received several witness associates in your programming board's proposal. And in this proposal, the programming committee says, of course, there are no radicals, there are several members and supporters of DS and DSS. But here I have brought for the citizens to see it, and that should be television or a broadcasting institution for all citizens of Serbia, which would say most radically, since we are the most. There's a lot less of these thieves from the yellow company. Well, look at one work résumé. For those who did not read carefully, I am sure that some MPs did not miss it, and some probably did. So he says, in the working biography, listen to Vukosave now, I don't believe you agree with this, social engagement (it's about a certain Lazar Boskovic, and be careful he owns and is the creative director of the marketing agency "Agitprop", you know, boasted a man himself, wrote his own, we haven't written) -- a member of the Society of Serbia for Public Relations since 2004, a member of the Art Directors Club of Serbia since 2004, he's had a lot of adventures there since 2004. Now, listen to what is now, a member of the independent Association of Journalists of Serbia of 97 says; and listen to the next thing -- a member of the Democratic Party since 1990, and as a member of the DS of 1990, he is a normal Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, because only if you are not a member of the Democratic Party, then you are an independent association, only if you are a member of the DS then you are independent, objective and impartial. So what are we people here, so what are you doing here, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, what are we doing here to you? So we're the imbeciles? Listen, he says, I've been a member of the DS since 1990, and I'm a member of the 97 Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, and you're all crazy people who don't believe it, and you'll think I'll be in the interest of Serbian citizens to do this job on the Programme Committee. What are we people talking about here, where there is it, explain to me what country on the globe there is. Listen, he says, I've been a member of the political party for 16 years, but I'm also a member of the Independent Association of Journalists, and now I'm going to become a member of the Programme Committee of the Broadcasting Institute, of the Public Service, of my people. To be independent, to be objective, right? Well, I know, guys, I don't have a problem. It's okay, tell us, we want not only to humiliate you, not only to underestimate you, we want to tell you and that you're crazy, and that you're monkeys, and that you're what you want. So say it all, don't do this to us. It's easier for us to put up with this than something like this. What are we here, what are Serbian citizens crazy to listen to these DS thieves who say -- Toma Nikolic and Dinkic agreed, have some business moves, and when you ask them which -- they don't know. And you know why? Well, because their business moves are only how much they're going to steal, how much money they're going to shovel onto trucks, and then they're in shock when they hear that Toma Nikolic has made a big or biggest investment for Serbia in this country. So they say it wasn't reported to the Ministry of Mining. So you ask them, who says they should apply to someone, who says, where does it say, in what law? The Russian ambassador came, the most powerful Russian state-owned company came, not private, the most powerful. They signed the biggest investment contract, and that's something suspicious. What's suspicious? I don't know. And then you meet them, and now I'm going to tell you a story to see what kind of con men and liars are. I walk with Igor Mirovic and we run into one of those who criticise it, and Igor Mirovic asks him - so what are you doing, what are you doing, it's the biggest investment for the city, it's going to be cheaper than 35%, we're going to have a lot of money in town, we're going to have tens of millions of euros from building land and from everything else. He says -- well, let me go, I'm crazy, I'm crazy. The chairman of a committee group in Novi Sad, who had criticised it the day before. I tell Mirovic -- he's really crazy, but I don't know what else I could tell him, and I don't know how to react to that. He's making the same statement again the next day. Yesterday, here I am witness, my people. He came in front of Igor Mirovic and told me - I'm crazy, let it go, I'm doing it like that. I don't know, guys, more to tell you. Today, a journalist who publishes a contribution in which he says, and it was clear that something was being negotiated, I don't know, Dinkic and the radicals. It was clear to him, if he was kissed by his mother, he was very smart. It shows – he understood that. Before that, he tells me an hour ago, I don't want to speak his name because I'm not as dishonest as some of them, before he tells me an hour ago - so tell Tadic Labus, leave it all, so the government will fall, so Labus did, so Tadic told him, "Go away, tell us Polt, there's no choice until November." Why don't you publish it, which you don't say, that you're lying to the people with an empty story about how your radicals are guilty of something because they're following the law, because we're going to do our best to keep the law alive. Is it the easiest thing in your life to do, is it the easiest thing for people to do in your life to attack the SRS, even though we haven't had anything to do with power for six years? Neither at the Belgrade level, nor in the province of Vojvodina, nor at the republican level, nor at the presidential level, nor at the federal or unionistic level, as you will. What's the SRS' fault? Let me tell you why. Well, because we don't give you peace, because somebody in Serbia can finally come out for a pay phone and say, "Well, you're the one who stole you and that money, you took that and that money." You're about to kidnap that much more. How long are you going to sell the Mining-Toping Based Bor? How much money? For a bagatella? Do you know how much concession there is on the Black Summit? One euro at 20,000 hectares. Who knows how much? That you don't believe everything changed by the decisions of individual ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now we all need to keep our mouths shut. We don't want to keep quiet, we're going to fight for the truth, and we're not going to be silenced by the DS radio and TV stations, and it's the thief radio and TV stations, which are privatized by some people being threatened to cut off their hands and heads if they participate in a public auction. It's gonna have to come up on the agenda, too, and it's gonna have to be set up someday. You can see that without any fear we're talking about it. I was telling you today about the names of these people. Why do you think nobody says it's not true? Because it's true. Why doesn't anyone say how much money it's privatized for? Do you know, Mr. Tomashevich, how much money? I think you're an honorable man, no matter how politically different we are. Do you know how much money? Go out and tell the people and citizens of Serbia that the yellows privatised it and for what money: 68,000 euros TV is national. What are the citizens of Serbia, all the silly, all the crazy, only the smart ones, and they'll cut our heads off, then the stadiums to guide us, they will. The only thing that doesn't suit me is what they're going to put in the jars, reduce, that doesn't suit me at all. This whole thing, just let them cut their heads off, whatever they want, whatever they want. There are others here. He says the programme board should be joined by Nenad Manojlovic. He says he's a top water polo expert, he was born here and here. He says -- the explanation of the candidacy, listen, Mr. Pejcica, this is very important. I'm sure you're not up for this. He says - his overall professional work as a player, coach and selector has shown that it is possible to achieve good results and be best and in difficult conditions. I want to make my knowledge and experience available to the Serbian broadcasting institution. What are we people here for? Now, none of us know he's the president of the DS Sports Committee. Isn't that right, Tomasevic? So how can we vote for this? Who can vote for it, I read you two right away. You do not have any radicals amongst the six No Radicals. What are we all? What are we here, what do we present to you, that you mock us, that you humiliate us, that you humiliate Serbian citizens in this way? Listen, please, an explanation of Cedomir Petrovic's candidacy. Please, Mr. Pejcic. He says, with all his engagement from early childhood until today, he has met all the conditions for performing this function. It's nice for us, from the decapitation to the childhood of certain members of the program board. We deserve it all. That's not a bad reporter. Ladies and gentlemen, I pray that with such witnesses, our time, who make fun of the people and make fun of the citizens of Serbia, to break up with this practice, that this country is doing normal, reasonable, and I would like to ask someone else from power in this room, only three or four representatives of the regime in the O.R., there is no point. I'm counting on the election to have this relationship of strength, about 6:1 for Serbian radicals, but it's not right to be in the Serbian Parliament today. Anyway, I'm asking the minister, I'm guessing he's looking upstairs from the cabinet, asking the DA what he was doing with our severed heads, because these guys in the family, when they cut my head off, they're gonna hate him a lot. So let them initiate this matter as soon as possible, and let them see what their work is and what they do. As for the SRS, we'll keep fighting these thieves, and just don't let them talk to us about privatisation. I'm still expecting, Mr. Tomasevic, since you're a very well-informed man and you know it, to let us know where these ficuses are today at 70,000, where they were found. What's growing on them? Who's an associate witness for that thieving? They stole 18m euros, found something that was nowhere to be found. Maybe oranges grow on that ficus. Someone's throwing me a little pre-anas, I didn't know what. Who knows what's growing. Maybe Mr. Aligrudic knows what's growing on those ficuses, too? Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for seeing, I hope, in the material that I delivered to you that I was telling the truth about the mayor's assistant, as usual, and I urge you to respect the law and the elemental norms in the future. Then I am quite sure that there will be a different relationship in the National Assembly of Serbia, and that we should finally tell the citizens of Serbia how much money it spends. Please, Mr. Danilovic, if he is here, I ask you publicly to deliver to me how many thieves have raised money without spending any single hour in the National Assembly of Serbia since November. In fact, they spent two and a half hours discussing Kosovo and Metohija, to see how much their two and a half hours cost. How much millions cost the citizens of Serbia, so let Serbian citizens then assess who they are and how much on their backs, who is and how guilty they are to their sufferings and hardships.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26656	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 160 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, a very important thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I've now won, Mr. Stevovic introduced me to this, I didn't know that, and Natasha Jovanovic, therefore, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that there is no assistant president of the municipality. So what do we do now? Changed to Uzica, where the radical respects the law. What are we doing here? How much money did that go against the law? Who would have found that if we hadn't been doing this, if we hadn't gotten to it? More bright clothes, God and beatings in Belgrade. How much money did it add up there? I ask-- did you know, Mr. Vice President, about that Constitutional Court decision? I didn't until two minutes ago. Now I'm asking you, what are you going to do about it, you who are with them in the coalition? I don't have any words. But you see, it's not going to be handled by these DS media, because it doesn't suit them, or any other media, or yours is not going to do it. Why? Because then no one will ask - and why they got fired from the daughter and wife of Jove Djoga, I repeat it the tenth time from this pay phone and no one answers that question. What are these women's crimes, what are they doing, who are they to blame? I don't know what's wrong with you or Jovo Djogo, but I'm asking what your family is doing to you. Why did they get fired, not have the bread to eat? What? I don't understand you. I expect you, Mr. President, to meet with this again the Minister and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I count that they advocate respect for the principles of constitutionality and legality, that someone will finally start to take care of this. You know, laws have to be older than all of us, whether we like it or not. It is true that we will suffer the sermons and stupidities of all sorts, otherwise not only of uneducated, but of malicious and uninformed people, who are not only concerned with politics and those in politics that have charged millions of funds from citizens of Serbia here, but have not even appeared in the National Assembly. It's not that controversial either. It is not even disputed that those for Dragisa Djokovic's mandate say it was stolen from them. Anything's possible. You can listen to a lot of things in your life, but it's not moral not to answer them, and it's not moral to keep quiet. It is not moral for no one to appear and say, aman, you liars, stop lying to Serbian citizens anymore, stop making up stories because you don't know what you're going to do with yourself anymore. You don't know what you're gonna make up. The other day you made contributions to your anti-Serb networks about how wonderful it is to throw billboard paints with SRS President Vojislav Seselj's image; wonderful, civil resistance, whatever you want. You want a civil resistance that you don't have any posters and no billboards anywhere, do you want to see what it looks like? You don't think we can do that. So let's see where you have one billboard and one poster in Serbia. We'll still call it sacred action, action if you want light, the future, because of our children... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Civil resistance. I'm calling on those of you who think that their time is September 5th, so close to October 5th, they're gonna get out of business. A long time ago, their thieving, kidnapping, threats and harassing Serbian citizens. We'll never let them do that again, and they can dream of cutting off this head as long as they want, they can dream stadiums and camps and everything. But the fact that they're very brave to go to the radio station, that is, record the conversation and then play on the radio, I invite them to come. I inform them, Toma Nikolic is on her way to Friday, so they can't find him until Friday, but I'm in the National Assembly every day and I'm ready to cut off my head, waiting for them, that's King Milan number 14. Now it's been changed, Serbian rulers, I know they've cut off these streets with Russian heroes, Marshall Tolbuhin... (Chairman: Mr. Wolfie... I'm done. Marshall Birces. Since I guess, to prove how much they hate Russians and Serbs, they've done it in every place, and now I know that they've changed something here and I'm not mistaken. So our address is King Milan number 14 and welcome to cut off our heads, but the citizens of Serbia will not be cut off, because from them and their thieving will defend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26658	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26659	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these amendments to the series and this Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 60, which discusses a decision on a public prosecutor's proposal to determine the status of an associate witness is something that is absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. You have seen that Mr. Vukic, just like all of us, all day long speaking of these novelties in the Code of Criminal Procedure, has potentiated everything that the DS criminal organization did during the exercise of power from 2000 to 2003, and then launched the Institute of Witness Associates by making a protected witness, who was known and unequivocally found to be one of the leaders and members of the Zemun Clan, a certain Ljubish Bhuha Chume, a protected witness, or an associate witness. We have asked the question several times at the defence and security committee sessions how much Ljubisa Buha Chume costs the state of Serbia. You know, even journalists aren't as naive as you think, so they launch some headlines and say, he's been on the Kopalnik for three days and five days on Zlatibor, both here and there. Don't think it's not. He walks free like a bird on a branch. Do you want to know him by his personal description, I haven't seen him in my life in person, by a scheme of circumstances he used to be a neighbor to Mrs. Verici Radete, but of course he was famous for it. You know what, all I don't know is how he changed his personal description, with plastic surgeons from Serbia and Brazil, and I don't know where you dragged them from, that doesn't mean anything. He is a criminal and as a convicted criminal was hired by the state to testify in the proceedings, or in the case of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Then the introduction of such an institute leads us to the next conclusion. Since you said nicely in article 159, which is a person who cannot be, and now in article 160, on the proposal of the public prosecutor, how to decide and who gets the status of a protected witness, or an associate witness, however you want to formulate it now, the question arises, is it possible that someone as the perpetrator of the most serious murder offense appears later as a potential witness. Because you can't know today, as no state authority can know, neither the judge in that special court, nor the court council, nor the state prosecutor special, but as it is called, nor the minister of justice, they can't know at all what all the crimes committed by their protected witness, Ljubish Buha, called the plague, or some other plague or some third. We know that he allegedly had legal dealings paved the way for Serbia, along with his wife through the company "Difens Road". So you remember how in the scariest way on state television this poor woman is shown who, by the way, is dangerous and disguised, and goes, collects food around the container, named Biljana Buha, the wife of this protected witness. After that nothing, ate the donkey wolf. She's free to walk or she's kept doing her job. He's a protected witness. Then questions arise as to who you are, because of all possible abuses, which can run for witness associates. When you look at Serbia's political scene, just to watch those from the DS, this one across the street because they don't enter the hall, and as Mr. Vukic said, they cost a lot of taxpayers for those two and a half hours how much they paraded when it was a session about Kosovo and Metohija, you'll see a bunch of candidates. Here, this greatest Serbian tycoon, Dragan Gilas, director of the National Office, is ideal for an associate witness. When you look at him like that, you'll see that he's probably been ratting out kids in a kindergarten who won't eat, who won't sleep in time. Later, he started ratting everyone out, and today he's selling out every living thing in the country and making huge money. The ideal candidates for snitches are you and Sutanovac, and that Krstic and all in a row, about Stankovic not to talk. You just said you could recruit this undercover investigator. The same goes for an associate witness. The removed Zoran Stankovic, who was expelled from the post of Chief VMA, was involved in numerous malfeasances and pharmaceutical affairs, was appointed as a co-worker witness, but Karli del Ponte and the anti-Serb UN tribunal, because it was directly to its insistence, as defence minister. That whole Serbia and all Serbs, as an agent of the CIA, who knows who else he's working for, would sell. Then tell us that this judge and the court council, under Article 26(4), or Article 160, will have a real picture of who these are to be witnesses. Come on, that's really funny. All the ones I mentioned and who knows how many more of them deserve just one thing to be behind prison bars. Hypothetically, all of them can be witnesses and still allegedly use the state and the people, as they participate in the disclosure of criminal affairs, criminal clans, etc. Minister Stojkovic himself couldn't answer another hypothetical question a few days ago. You know that a complete false indictment, which is a pure forgery, and above all, was a way to remove, but only for a short while and make sure, from the political scene of Serbia, the president of our party, the count. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, written here in Belgrade, with the help of Hague-based witness associates. Among them is certainly the most prominent former minister, I have already mentioned him today, Dusan Mihailovic, now the one who committed suicide in the cell of the Hague Kazamat Milan Babic, who is also instructed to do all this, and many others known and unknown, and those whose names we can and whose names we cannot disclose. Then he's in his last play that he wrote to the Hague's larger count. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who has been there for four years and has not begun his trial, although all conditions have been met. He asked one logical question: what if until the start of the trial (and the question is whether he will be and when he will be, because that justice and justice, already after three years of his stay in custody, had to be dropped the indictment and that he would be free, which is our request and request of all the friends of the Serbian people), all witnesses-co-workers committed suicide like this Milan Babic, and the whole indictment based on their lies, slanders and contrivements. The same can happen to you here. Don't play around like that, because you know that there are a huge number of honest and honest people living in Serbia, but these bastards and traitors, some of whom I've just listed, are willing to sell and sell their own mother and their own father, all they can do, just to benefit themselves and just so some of them obviously enjoy it, because only the Serbs, like that freak Natasa Kandic and her like, are working against the Serbian people. These may appear to you in all criminal proceedings and that, allegedly, as guardians of respect for justice and law, they are placed in the service of the state and decided by the prosecutor and by Article 160, but these are people who usually and as such are not worthy of anything, have neither honor nor morals nor can they possibly be relevant to participate in a bullful criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26660	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26661	I would ask the MPs present to inform their colleagues about this amendment to Article 160, but this applies to the whole chapter VI A hearing of a fellow witness. There is still a problem in our case-law and legal theory that needs to be defined by the defendant's confession. Whether it's a confession or a witness statement, since it's quite intertwined. If a co-worker witness, who, on the basis of the record that he made a deal with a public prosecutor, admitted that he committed a crime and accepted the duty to testify as a witness against the members of the criminal organisation with which he acted, then the question really arises whether it was his own confession or his testimony should be interpreted in light of evidence against other persons. Where does that intertwine, where is the border between those two principles? The motives for recognition can be different. It may be remorse, and it may also be simple, as one feels that through recognition it will eat a milder judgment. But if this minor conviction is guaranteed by a double-mild conviction, which this law provides, he is guaranteed a double sentence under the status of an associate witness than prescribed by law. He's got twice the penalty he'd give him. It has twice as much benefits as it does on a regular basis. He's on a regular basis based on the individualization of what the court would determine, and he has half of it. I didn't say half of it. I said half of it. I said half of it. Of course he'd be twice as much in prison, admitting the act is a benefit to the defendant who's an associate witness. To prove that he is a loyal associate of the prosecution, as a witness who will accuse these others, who will testify that they have done something, of course he is more able to tell fairy tales and tell the prosecutor everything he needs to be satisfied. I'll give you an example, Minister. I know you don't know that example. Why? Because you're forbidden to inform yourself there. You are prohibited from informing yourself of anything that happens with Vukčević, the yellow one, what his sister is doing with Tadic, which with the scribes of the pigeons is fraternizing. You're forbidden to ask yourself what's going on in that court. If you asked a public question about what's going on in the court of Vukcevic, all the newspapers would blacken you, you have no idea what would happen to you. Even Ceda Jovanovic would rise, although she has police protection, and he would turn against you without telling you about these women, Kandićka and these others. They have a special attorney, a special investigative judge and a special judge. They were trained in America, led by Sam Nazaro. There's an office, it's a bunker like a newsroom and it monitors the trial, whether it meets their criteria, and they have no experience with war crimes, Americans. For the past 40 years, you have been able to extract five items from them, starting with a lieutenant from Vietnam, who has held a prison sentence at a military base, in an apartment of a military base. He was sentenced first to ten years, he was taken off to five, and then Nixon came along and said, "He's a folk hero, as he will answer, and he's freed." America was against the Roman Statute. America represented Rome, Theodor Meron, until a few months ago, the president of The Hague tribunal. He was a great opponent of the Roman Statute and the establishment of a permanent war crimes court. To get back to the witness associates. What is being negotiated, negotiated and what deals are being made, and even that butcher from Novi Sad is running with his money. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that even there who could potentially be the victim, who came, testified and said, "People," so those who are on this side of the defendant's bench, they saved my life, they were condemned by the court. Of course, I don't speak names, I respect the law, but I use the right to criticise violations of the law and to criticise the negative phenomena that exist in such a court, and they have used something similar that is now promoted by the law of criminal proceedings as a hearing of an associate witness. I don't want to tell you about those mutes and those other people who testify as associates. I'm potentialing one more thing, the witness associate is the person for whom there is evidence that committed a crime, a person who admitted to committing a crime. It's a confession. Could his confession and all that goes in support of that confession be a witness statement against others? Where's the border? Who's gonna find that line? I'm deliberately talking about article 160, and I don't want to be specific about these attitudes, because this is exactly what they're talking about. They're prescribing this situation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If someone is not ready and able to testify in terms of maintaining the truth, do not let us buy the truth with half the punishment, for there is no truth. Don't let your principle be greater and less evil. It doesn't cost much of a country that he'll be five years alone, and it should be 10, because based on him, we'll be arrested another 20, etc., and they'll get maximum sentences. You think that's where the truth came from? I don't think so. Do you think that's where justice came from? I don't think so. All the settlements that took place, and here's an example of the Hague tribunal, all the settlements are fake. One had to admit something that Florence Artman also said in her statements that it never happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For a settlement, he admitted to being an accomplice to some genocide. How can you based on his statement that you're judging others, and everyone knows it's not there? Don't stick to Natasha Kandic and these here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26662	Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, you're the second speaker, I'm sorry, please, the previous speaker used 10 minutes, but they replaced the chairman, sorry again. By the same amendment, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26663	So, this amendment belongs to that group of amendments that are required to delete members of the laws that actually determine the Institute of the Protected Witness, i.e. A co-worker's father-in-law. Of course, this is because of the public, since what was said about a protected witness actually comes down to an associate witness, which is a similar institute. And perhaps, in the context of the debate being conducted, it is necessary to highlight the difference. So this is about a person who has confessed to committing a criminal offence during the proceedings and made an agreement with the public prosecutor on how to plead that way, that they will testify about the circumstances under which the crime was committed, it is very important that this crime is committed by a group of persons, it is very important in the whole of the matter, and it is not only about the criminal offence of organised crime, but it can also apply to other crimes, such as crimes against constitutional order and security, such as crimes against humanity and international law. So, just for a second to understand, to take this away from me from time, I'm not deluding what you're saying, but I'm talking about this amendment in the context of the institute that I'm trying to defend, thinking I shouldn't accept the amendment. I do not pollute, and therefore what I say will stand up to what you said, but I do not lead the controversy with you. So, let go of that story. So this is a very important institute, and now I'm plowing with you, so, in the context of this issue, is Serbian legislation necessary or not? You are in the view that the Serbian legislation does not require the Institute of Witness Associates. Let's see something else. If we don't have an associate witness, and I repeat, to be easy to understand, it's the person who was involved in the execution of a crime that has the character of organised crime, which is the most difficult forms of criminal behavior that we can imagine in one country, which involves, in itself, popularly speaking, mob organizations, which are bribed by civil servants and officials most often, it's not necessary, but most often in practice, and based on which they carry out criminal activity. Therefore, in order for such organisations and such criminals to stand in the way, the means should be applied which deviate from the usual procedure when it comes to detecting, processing and punishing those who have committed crimes. This was not invented by the minister of justice when it was proposed, nor invented by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but has been taken over practically from other legislations, which also did not invent because they felt they wanted to, but because they followed certain experiences in their own environments and had very difficult experience with organised crime. Take, for example, Italy, Spain, the United States. So these legislations did not invent this institute to make anyone live, but to do everything in their power to prevent organised crime. Now let's see here, do we in our society have a tolerance limit, a level where such forms of criminal acts appear, so we count on other means that we can solve the law on criminal proceedings and that the introduction of this institute is completely unnecessary. There's no institute in criminal law that can't be resented, and here's why. Because criminal law is built on it, it, as such, as a procedural right, primarily refers to the issue of protection of human rights. This is what is fundamental in criminal law, because it comes from the presumption of innocence, from the fact that a crime must be provided for by law in order for someone to be held accountable for this crime. They're basic norms. They make everything else. There is no norm of material criminal law or procedural criminal law that cannot be found any blame, some flaw, as there is no cure that, if we are sick, we will apply without any other harm being done besides what the disease cures. There's no cure like that, even if it's made up of natural herbal preparations, even if it wasn't invented in the Galenika labs or some factory. So we have to be prepared as a society, when we want to say no to crime, and I think we're all honest with each other, let's choose those assets that are really objectively going to lead to the goal. Every institute has a flaw, but let's talk about the benefits of this institute, let's talk about it. We have some other institutes in this law, we have an investigator, we have listening, and we see that later in that amendment, we are looking for a erasure of that position of Article 164 when it comes to the security measures of the defendant's presence, let's see if it's possible to erase it, and to achieve that goal or that result in the conduct of criminal proceedings against the most serious forms of criminal offences that we seek as a state. Do we have a regular state in our country, whether in our country things happen in such a way, such a normal, established practice, when it comes to the degree of crime and the fight against crime, that we can relax and say that it is sufficient to apply only the most necessary measures and means, which we have seen in our practice so far. If that were the case, we wouldn't have any problems we're facing today. We have people today, such as Bogoljub Karic, who we spend two years thinking that criminal charges could have some effect. And now he's not available to the state authorities of Serbia and then we're wondering if anyone is protecting him politically, which is what he was paying for. Of course we're wondering, because as a state, we had to be able to deal with cases like that sooner. And not to experience that Bogoljub Karic has been talking for months, fortunately not to speak today, fortunately that it is a completely insignificant political phenomenon that has gone to hell, but we are experiencing today and we have been experiencing in the past months that he is dead cold over that TV of his explains to Serbian citizens that someone is attacking him for political reasons. What are the political reasons why someone would attack Bogoljub Karic, whom he is politically interested in, who he is politically threatening. He simply found out, through his associates, and these associates, it's natural that criminals have their associates, found out at what stage the cases were against him, at which stage the public prosecutor was at when he was investigating what he had done, so when he saw that the devil had taken the joke, then he decided to politically organize himself and then the whole fire was created. And there's been an incredible replacement of thesis. That's what happens in society. If we want to cope with such a phenomenon, we must compare the means that we foresee with our law to the goal we want to achieve. I'm very sorry, but there's no other way to do a job. So the witness associate is an important institute. A man has confessed to a criminal act, in which he must certainly have the elements of remorse, but beware, those elements are assessed by law, by someone estimating celery. I understand that someone once referred to the fact that the institute was not well-defined enough in law and it wasn't. It came from the assumption that there are extenuating circumstances in the witness associates. These circumstances could not be known in advance, but it is directly going to be that the public prosecutor has the right to assess whether there is a basis for integrity to be treated in this way, to talk to people, to admit to a criminal act. Then they will be punished for the act, by law, by the principle of subjective measurement, as Mr Krasic said, and then that punishment will be halved. That's what's gonna happen. There's a possibility of getting rid of punishment, but there's no possibility of getting rid of criminal responsibility. What you would call "participation" between the prosecutor and the defendant is only in one interest, which is that those crimes by those persons who have committed them are no longer repeated, that the chain of organized crime is broken, and that those acts are no longer repeated at the expense of the social community or certain individuals who have suffered specific damage, were damaged, do not God, killed, by such a gang. Therefore, it is the interest of this society, that those who have set up a criminal organisation, who are co-founders of this criminal organisation, suffer, it is a deliberate metaphor, a difficult word, so they are criminally responsible and punished under the law for the acts they have done and that they no longer interfere with this social community. On purpose here, I step away from what the objectives of punishment are, etc. I speak the language of the people, to make it very clear what it is. Therefore, this is the aim of this institute and is why this institute is foreseen. There are no other reasons. We can resent that institute, I agree, we see things differently, but that's exactly what I'm talking about. If you'd gone into the details of what's wrong here, then you'd have talked about it, you'd have compared the previous law to this law, seen what better solutions, etc. We're talking about the justification for the institute. I don't know how else to convince you that this institute is justified for our society and that there is no other way to deal with the mafia. If someone's honest about dealing with the mob, then all means must be applied. If you're honest about curing someone, give them adequate medications, don't talk around, read fairy tales, etc. Use a medicine that requires the patient to heal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26664	Mr. Krasic, you don't want a replica for criminal novels. I can answer that, too. Yes, there's a search for the guilty or the murderer in the crime novels. There is a certain repentance, but it is because it is a novel and inside is the search and the possibility of finding the guilty or the murderer, the surrogate of the reader's ability to find justice, and for the reader it is a substitution of the possibility that it is possible to find the truth. But it's just a novel, and we're talking about the law and the facts here. The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic, and there is a parliamentary group available for another three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26665	I will be very brief, because I think Mr Aligrudić, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, gave a very well-founded explanation why such an institute should exist in this law. In this short performance of mine, I'd just like to underline why we stand for this institute, because our concept is to fight organized crime, not just the story of fighting organized crime. At a time when we don't have enough instruments in this legislation, which deals with this area, I think we absolutely need to have a witness-cooperation institute like this. He may not be ideal, but as an institute he is necessary throughout this whole concept. If we look at the current legislation, we see we're missing one of these institutes. Comparative experience tells us that this concept produced results in those countries that had problems with monsters called organized crime. Unfortunately, we have organized crime in that previous period, which has burdened us, very much present. That's why we think we need to put this institute into law because we need results, not just a naked story. I just want to point out once again that what we've been given so far wasn't enough. That's what the DSS saw, and that's why it supports this concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26666	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 161 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Moma Markovic has tabled an amendment to Article 161. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, and this article bears the title - Appeal damaged. Otherwise, we've been talking for an hour, an hour and a half, about a very problematic and questionable legal institute, and that's the Witness Associate Institute. Here, in the final reports of fellow MPs, we have also had some solutions that contribute to this institute, but the SRS insists on what has been said so far - that this institute does not need our procedural right and that this institute is likely to be misused or modified in some future. The basic rule of science and profession, which they delegate to legislators, is precisely the fact -- if you can, don't introduce this institute; if you introduce it, make it as restrictive as possible. This institute must never be a rule, because that rule can turn into abuse. That would be the essence and absorbing some discussion so far. As far as this particular member is concerned, whether MPs vote for one variant, for a fellow witness and the introduction of this institute into our criminal-processing right or to choose not to introduce this legal institute, Article 161 makes absolutely no sense. I think this is one of the saddest members mentioned here, and I'll explain it the next way. This article, following a proposal by the public prosecutor to introduce someone as an associate witness, decides on a qualified larger and larger three judges, as provided for in the previous article. Then we give the complaint as a right to damage, which has been damaged by a large criminal group, by giant criminals, by those who have confessed to the crime and who are evident. We give him the right to complain about what the public prosecutor has decided and qualified bigger. Now I ask the minister what kind of damage it should be, what kind of role he should play, what is his weight, what is his quantum to adopt his complaint? Total nonsense that's been brought into the law. If we start with the fact that a witness associate can also be involved in a criminal offence against the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia and the SCG, I ask the question of who is authorized as damaged to file a complaint? Is that what we've been thinking about? I don't think so. So, our country with organised crime questioned, or the SCG, however, as a state community, and we decided, through a proposal from the public prosecutor and a decision by a qualified council, that a witness associate should really appear in some case, then someone appears as damaged. Who is this damaged, which is the name and last name, which is the institution, which is the representative of the institution? I don't think we have an answer to that. If we take into account the crime against humanity and other goods protected by international law, then who is in charge of filing a complaint, which is the damaged one? Is it perhaps the crime of genocide, the case being committed, and now who is authorized to appeal on behalf of the one over whom the genocide has been committed? And we're talking about the fate of that appeal, does it make any sense to talk about that appeal? If we've decided on an option to introduce this institute, then it's quite enough to be proposed by a public prosecutor and qualified bigger. The majority of the three judges are qualified, by the proper criminal in the court of law. If we do not have enough confidence in the public prosecutor, nor in the decision of a qualified council, but we are adding that it can also be verified by a higher court through the complaint damaged, I consider it to be only a more complicated procedure, and this raises the question of the institution that the ruling option wants to introduce. Please, Minister, think about everything I've said, because I'm really talking about this whether you choose one option or another. We question the legality, we question the capacity of a public prosecutor, a qualified council, if we give such an indefinitely damaged right to file this complaint. Here, so much for this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26668	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. Any other MPs? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Aligrudic, I just didn't realize before, and Mr. Jojic. To finish up with one of the MPs, I think it's easier. Here you go, Mr. Jojic, eight minutes. Please, according to the amendment, it is simply correct that one parliamentary group should be declared by the amendment, such is the usual order, then the other. This is a matter of mutual decency. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Aligrudic said it was so regulated in some countries where parallel law was applied. I ask the question, colleague Aligrudić, you're a lawyer and I believe you'll please me by telling me exactly which country and giving me the translation of that provision, that we can really make sure it's true. If you do, you'll help us understand once and we whether it's a parallel right or maybe it's an improvisation of anyone, or it's just an honorable word. No, no, please, I wouldn't agree with that. You see, when it comes to this witness, he's quite problematic, he's not in our right to do so. Why is he needed in our right? You compared, there were words previously that we have a comparative right and that some countries have dealt with organised crime, so they have provided for certain sanctions and have passed appropriate laws and certain standards. Someone said Italy, and we're not Italy. We're not a criminal state, in which crime is as organized as it would be in Italy, we're not. But it was said before that it was Italy. But I only asked if you had an example of what the state is. Please, what's the state? One of my colleagues mentioned Italy earlier, so I didn't speak personally to that part of you, but I'm talking about someone mentioning Italy. We believe from the SRS that the witness associate is just as great an evil as the secret investigator, or secret agent. These are two problematic things in our right with freedom, very problematic and dangerous from the aspect of the security and security of citizens and their freedoms. That means you'll have a situation where a man will come and be hired as an associate witness. He was involved in the murder, either he gave the gun or he took the knife, or he was one of his accomplices, and he, imagine, changed his mind, so he came to the prosecutor and he said, "Here, I'd help you shed some light on the work, here, I have to tell you, I'm sorry, I regret that I took part in it because I committed along with this and that crime, but, please, I'm willing to help you to shed light on him. Here, I'll tell you now, the work was done on Adi Giganlia that night, and that part was attended by Pera, Pai, Sima, Shai etc. And the D.A. asks, "Who had a gun?" And he says-- the gun I had was me. So what did you do? Well, I gave the gun to Simi. And what did he do to Sim? Sima shot. And what's the matter? He says he hit the deceased and there's been a murder. Now, he sees. Second, the police are looking for, regardless of what kind of forest-shummigs they need now and such witnesses, they're doing their job. We have an expert police force. They have completed high school, higher and higher schools, professionally, special schools of police, higher internal affairs and the Police Academy. We have an extremely professional police force. Now, that witness-co-worker, he found out that for him and his movements in the last month or two days or last week or the night before, the police were interested through the citizens, and he heard it. Knowing that his evidence remained on the scene, an example dropped his ID card or remained a gun or a knife or an axe or a hoax, he runs faster or better to the police and says - please, I'd like to tell you something, I want to help you, and he wants the full information, the police take a statement from him, informs the public prosecutor, the prosecutor says - oh, that would be good for a witness. But first, let's see if we can get data on the investigation, and then the police will get the data through the O.R. First, look at the scene, see if there's any leads or any evidence, then file criminal charges, and now we're going into procedure. We don't support it, where can we support it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't, colleague Aligruditch, think that the SRS, no, I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26670	Please don't throw away Mr. Jojic, concentrate. Please, this last one was the Goof, and before that, Laza, left his ID, let's go... Please, fictional examples, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26671	These are facts that point to the way and methods of lighting and detecting crimes and collecting evidence for the court. Now, imagine you're equally guilty. Even what could happen, that his action in committing the crime was decisive and that it led to adverse consequences, his action. But he found out, and he heard it, especially now that what the citizens are listening to and what they're listening to may be going on tomorrow, so they can't wait for this punishment to be halved, they can't wait. Well, what we should be allowing now is for a criminal who is equally responsible for committing a crime, just because he helped the police to shed light on the crime, to be rewarded instead of 40 years in prison for the most serious crimes, say 20 years in prison to be convicted. It can't be acceptable anymore, there's no criteria, there's no criteria at all, and we can't let that happen. Secondly, if he is heard and excluded from the public, is it possible for the accused to face him, whether this will be allowed, that he directly asks him questions and that the principle of contradiction and the principle of directness be respected. Now, that's what the problems are serious, and the SRS finds the witness associate a great danger. What the police will do then, what will police operatives do, if they are to expect the perpetrators of the crimes they committed to them now, to participate in the lighting. It'll be one police extended arm. The police will now run a special directory, a special record of possible associates, informants, and will now lead to potential perpetrators, a modus operand, who have committed crimes, what kind, and now the police can rely on an associate witness, but now the question is, are all citizens equal before the law? If our Constitution says they're all under the law, everyone's responsible for the act they've done equally. If we're putting ourselves in a more favourable position right now for someone who's registered and for his sentence to be reduced by 50%, half, I don't share an opinion like that, the SRS thinks the Constitution has to be respected. I looked in the countries, specifically in Italy, as it's regulated, what is actually being determined as norms, how much it helped them, as much as it didn't, you see this translation and study of the whole that was translated from 11 countries from the West, and I can tell you that we did it. The status of suspect and accused in some countries of Western Europe, the United States, by analysing modern criminal law and legislation of a number of countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom of Britain and Wales, Northern Ireland, Germany, France, Belgium, Sweden, Switzerland, Italy. (President: Mr. Jojic, since the time is up, we will not orally give it in writing to the Minister. ) I would just ask, if there is, I would like, if you have a translation of any of these countries or some country, if it was used and translated and if we take over their solutions, I would like and if you have to give me an insight, because it is my right to ask for a translation, so that I can see for myself. If that's the case, then we can discuss it differently, maybe there wouldn't be any objections. Otherwise, Mr. Aligrudic, you and I don't agree at all. You're a witness associate, you're a secret agent, and the SRS isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26672	Please, you explained your position with plastic examples, I followed them, and Mr. Aligrudić will only explain his position, because now he has a word, there is no reason to compromise ahead. National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26673	Of all this, I only agree with the fact that we have different views on this issue. So, as for Article 161, referring to the claim of the damaged, I really wouldn't go into any longer polemics. Of course, the role damaged in the procedure is defined by this code and it would be absolutely amazing to go after that the damaged has no right to lodge a complaint against the decision of a larger witness-co-worker, because such a decision can, in the extreme, be directly related to the right of the injured. The fact that in certain procedures it is not possible to define the damaged in this way does not preclude the possibility that in other procedures, where possible, the institute does not live. It just means that we have to make sure that the institute that we've predicted here, and that's now a controversy that is directly related to the institute itself and its application from these members, isn't made that witness associate that in each of these forms of criminal acts, the types of crimes that this is about must be applied to. It is not a new police tactics, which will be applied by this law in any case, because from this discussion, someone would wrongly understand that whenever a criminal act has been committed that has in it the characteristics of an organized crime or a criminal offence against the constitutional order, against security, that in each of these cases one of the evidence is a mandatory hearing of an associate witness. And that we must choose one or two persons from a criminal gang, who will be double less punished or even released from punishment. No, the aim of society is to punish everyone appropriately according to the work he's committed. Everyone must be punished for what he did, and of course he has to be, he doesn't have to be anything, I agree, but it's good and in our opinion it's favourable, as provided for in our criminal legislation, in this way proposed to be the Institute of Witness Associates, precisely because we can't say the following, as it was brought here. The police have technical opportunities to shed light on criminal acts. The public prosecutor plays a very important role in the investigation and, with the help of police authorities, they must shed light on the crime until the end and the goal of the state is to punish each one. Of course, I totally agree with that, but it's possible to imagine the situation, and in practice it was, that a lot depends on someone who can provide the kind of data that, in addition to the best technical capabilities of police equipment, the police are unable to complete. So it will happen that we catch one criminal gang, that three, four people from that gang are properly punished for participating in organised crime, for the acts they committed at that time, and that one or two people who were a spiritual movence of these criminal activities simply are not discovered. It will often happen that some of these faces can be easily discovered with the help of this institute. Is it possible that by removing one of these institutes from the proposal for our criminal-processing legislation, we simply leave opportunities for this to happen? So, I understand the arguments against, but I ask that those who are speaking in favour of having this institute thrown out, to try to think a little bit about what is in favor of this institute that it remains in the bill. So, there is no other reason, except for the reason to stand on the neck of organized crime and that those people who were drivers, founders of criminal organizations, the spiritous movences of these organizations are getting down and being punished appropriately by law. The conditions provided for by the proposal for this law for anyone to be declared a co-worker witness in the first place are strictly indicated in terms of who it should not be. In this way it is protected by a very broad social interest. Of course, Article 161 which speaks of a complaint damaged by such a decision must also take into account the position of the damaged, because if we were to throw it out of our legislation, then that would be pointless. Of course, it's a very important role damaged in the process, and that's the last defense against any suspicion that this is about arbitration or perhaps some completely free finding of prosecutors or greater. But you have to bear in mind that the prosecutor doesn't make a decision on his own, that there are other personalities in the system completely separate from the prosecutor, they have a completely different position, it's a court as an organ and a council. So these are two completely different entities. Only on this basis can this decision arise and it is natural for the damaged to have the right to appeal to such a decision. And this institute wasn't introduced to be a mandatory means of skill in the process, to carry out evidence. That's not true. This is one option and one that will be applied when most likely and obviously there is no other way out, not every little one. The essence of this institute is that punishments are being imposed and set up by criminal organisations, which make the most difficult forms of serious crimes in this society and which represent social evil. Or are we going to say that there are no such organisations in Serbia? If we want to fight organized crime, if we want to get in the way of that non-majority, the first state, and we represent the government on this side, we have to admit that this exists in this society, that there is corruption in the judiciary. We have to admit we have some problems. If we don't say it clearly from this pay phone here, there's no way to fight that phenomenon. These are the funds that we have proposed exactly, as the ruling majority we have proposed this through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have responsibly proposed this, as one of the means that can in the most serious way contribute to achieving our objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26674	Here you are, MP George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26675	When it comes to an associate witness and other techniques, the point is that we keep in mind that everything can be misused, everything. It could have been misused before, some other evidence technique. The rule is that it comes down to a minimum. A witness associate was used in this country, only he had no procedural status. There were promises of a secret, behind the scenes, that if he cooperated, the police would influence the court and it would be a milder punishment, etc. In order to guarantee the status of an associate witness and to obtain a procedural form, it must enter into the law, because no one can be encouraged to be an associate witness by making promises to him, without it being provided for in the law as something that is allowed and can count on. If you look at the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, you will see that this court has also pleaded on those verdicts where a co-worker witness was used, where there has been an abuse, the court has taken a clear position. So those verdicts were lifted. With us under the new law, when it is adopted, and the verdicts based on the testimony of an associate witness will be filed by appeal. It won't be confused. So this goes to what was already in practice, but to legalize, that the status of an associate witness should be laid down by law, not by being like it was, the secret technique used by having a later effect on the court to respect it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26676	Thank you. Any other MPs? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26677	I will only provide a few information regarding the request of Jojic. I don't see why you're connecting whether it's Serbian or Italian, crime has no national color. They're all connected and you shouldn't have taken those comparisons and whether they fit Serbian or not. You said about Italy, I don't want to defend Italy, but the fact is that the country that was faced with organized crime or the mafia is the fact that it's taken certain measures and here, for you information, on that list of corrupt countries, it's significantly ahead of us, in a better condition. Therefore, you shouldn't take that as a bad thing when you say Italy. On the other hand, you said to show yourself. Here, I take the obligation to give you, for example, the Italian Law on Special Prosecutor and to see exactly how an associate witness and other instruments to fight the mafia are arranged. I'll give you, I have a translation, because Mr. Vinja, then the special prosecutor, gave it to me, and even Mr. Lazin was in the task force at the time, so he knows it, and I don't know why he wasn't told, and here I'll take it from myself to give it to you. There's one thing I'm trying to say, it's not great with us. Here, we all say there's corruption, and organized crime, and we have to deal with it. All the countries in the world have applied these techniques. We didn't make one up. These are techniques and far more advanced and better countries, and countries that have managed to deal with these organised crime and corruption and to bring it down to some so-called. A bearable measure. So we take their techniques, because we're aware of the situation we're in. We're aware that what we've had so far has not been able to produce results. We have no choice but to do that, and I don't think we have to argue here, which is becoming cross-border, and what our police are going to catch, someone so-called. A soldier, and you won't touch the boss. If we don't introduce the principle of integrity, if we don't establish the principle of the integration of all organs, and if we don't apply those techniques, I'm telling you there won't be any fight against crime. You say it can be misused. Every one, and I don't think my colleagues who were judges or lawyers have to convince me that the witness was the most unreliable means of proof. How many times have we experienced to get a conviction, where it's said I trust a witness and I condemn a man, to prove, after material evidence, that it's not true, and then there was a repeat of the process and things like that. If we're talking about abuse, it always exists. This law, unlike some of the solutions that existed in the past, which are not well regulated and related to an associate witness, introduced certain instruments precisely in the desire to reduce the possibility of abuse, and to protect citizens' rights, starting from that entry into the apartment, starting with recording, starts with a series of obligations that we have. What's most important, we felt it was inadmissible what was done in the previous law, and I see that there were no big shouts, which is that the head of an organized group or mafia can be a protected witness. And that, beware, not only a protected witness, but also a witness you're adjudicating. So, a man who can be that he's committed the most serious crimes in this country, but he's absolved and he's in better status than some ordinary citizen who's made a car accident and he's convicted. It couldn't be allowed. That's why we asked Italy to really give us how they regulated it. And if you see, not only the boss, but also the people who made a significant contribution to the establishment of the group can no longer be protected witnesses. On the other hand, let's be objective and fair as citizens, I'm not speaking legally now, can you master any mafia if you don't have a protected witness or an associate witness, or even in the best and most peaceful countries and how witnesses are protected, because the mafia is ruthless. The Mafia is ruthless, and if you don't get into it or find that moderation, you can hardly find the boss. You can find the so-called. Tiny perpetrators, soldiers, but the boss never. You have to get into it. And these are, I say, instruments that are modern law and how he knows today. Believe me, we haven't invented one. I'll take, for example, money laundering, we don't apply these instruments now, or we don't give these possibilities legally, so you know, we say, there's some Virgin Islands out there, etc., all this is nice, there's money, we're suspicious, but we didn't have the instruments to check how it came. Now we're slowly getting some instruments to check it out. You mentioned one procedure, that's the instrument we've missed so far, that it could be asked for example by certain banks to get something that we couldn't get so far until we changed the law as we changed it. Believe me, none of these measures are aimed at limiting the rights of citizens. They are bound by that restriction that exists in the Constitution. After all, we all agree and you even said that this constitution might not need to be changed. It explicitly states that all rights of citizens are listed, and you know it well and say it, and restrictions are only related to criminal proceedings. So it shouldn't be disputed with us that if we have an increase or a major crime, it endangers the whole society, and then the story of both the Constitution and constitutional rights ceases, if what's outside the law, outside the Constitution, and beyond norm and beyond normal life, we give the possibility of endangering that normal life. I don't think any of these measures have been introduced with the desire to harm anyone's rights. It was introduced with a desire to really deal with what could endanger every right we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26678	Thank you. I understand that you want a replica, but MP Hranislav Peric appears in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26679	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is normal to tolerate 15 minutes, since the National Assembly is working up to 1800 hours, and there are a small number of MPs. I don't think it has anything to do with any further work. I suggest that you call the heads of Parliament's clubs tonight or in the morning and agree with them whether they want to work seriously, because I just saw it on the screen, they keep showing an empty room and showing one or two MPs, and it's embarrassing in Serbia how this assembly works and performs. That's why I ask you once again to stop working this session, because there are really very few MPs. There is another way to register MPs in the congregation and all others not to pay for today's daily living if we can repair the work of a small congregation. The next question, from the G17 party, there are no MPs here. The party, as it says in the paper today, can later say illegally for the assembly. I don't count, I think it's the former president's party, because he said he wasn't in G17 anymore, and he was sitting there with that minister of the previous government, so there's really no one from G17. Tomorrow they'll say what the Parliament looks like, the whole party. We weren't here, and you were doing the law and they won't admit this law. So there are many reasons for us today's Assembly to finish and warn the heads of Parliament clubs in the morning to gather their deputies and to make this look like a Serbian Parliament, not a local community or a pigeon society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26680	I fully understand your distress and concern, but first of all, I understand you very well, which you are confident, as well as many who are monitoring the transmission, that at the meeting in the hall during the debate all the work of the MPs. You know very well, the various MPs, depending on their obligations, the arrangements within the party, the size of the parliamentary group and of course the interests of their party in a certain, legally envisaged way, are doing their job. I certainly live in the belief that, because these are MPs, and they are not MPs of their heads of parliament, that you all further make sure that in one sentence they don't get to say what I saw on TV a few nights ago, that one MP of the people, and you know that I respect all the MPs, says - yes, I was or I was in the hall at that point, such is the Rules of Procedure, only a dozen is enough. And to the sub-question, do you receive salaries and contributions, the answer is - of course, because everyone who works responsibly in the Assembly knows that this is only one part of the activity, depending on whether you participate in the debate, nevertheless by discussing and supporting speakers or by helping the best representatives of the promoters understand, accept and by your conviction improve, because of the interests of your voters and voters, some law says - it is simply because of that and in that sense there is no reason to deprive ourselves. There is also no reason to give incorrect notices. As much as a man's eyes sometimes cheat, at this point, among other things, from the party you mentioned, and you know I don't speak party names, at this point there are two members of the Parliament club in the O.R. and there's no reason to talk about it now peoratically in any way. And please, because I appreciate your responsibility and your authority, that you help me, too, because by guaranteeing you that I am capable of implementing the law and decisions, at the same time right now, that is why I have to chair the session, and if you do not participate in the debate, please use your authority, warn all the heads of parliament groups and explain to them to do exactly as you asked. I'll be grateful and I believe you'll try that, because I know you've done it responsibly so far. The amendment was submitted to Article 162 of the amendment by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There was no basis for replication. It wasn't a replica, it was a promise to give exactly what you asked as a translation. I'm sorry, if you think you're misread, go ahead. I thought it was this translation of Italian law, so I thought maybe you two are older people, and I, who am Nell mecco del camin di nostra vita, can help you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these provisions question the proposal for this law from the point of view of compliance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, especially with the provisions on the right to a fair trial. In addition, this right also implies that the accused is allowed to investigate witnesses of the indictment or to achieve that they are being investigated and to ensure the presence and hearing of witnesses of the defence, under the same conditions as those who testify against him, as provided for in Article 6(3) of that Convention. This provision provides for the right of the accused to appear in a literal sense, facing witnesses before the court and for the testimony to be directly so. that witnesses will be questioned in any case. These are provisions on hearing sensitive witnesses, as was the case with an associate witness, and on the procedural protection of the endangered witness in the accelerated procedure and in the process of intervention, on a new model of investigation, provided that the most optimal variants of possible solutions have been chosen. Personally, I find the witness associate and secret investigator absolutely inadmissible to be any link in our procedural right. So far, we've had crime, so the authorities have been lighting up crime. The truth is that after October 5, there was a wider scale of organised crime. That's where we'll agree, Mr. Minister. So, for the last five or six years, we have a phenomenon in some crime institutions, which in any case have to monitor and shed light on crimes, reveal and bring perpetrators to the authorities, police and prosecutors. So, I don't see that he's that important, I don't see that we need an associate witness over here. He doesn't need to be looked forward to, neither to him, nor to a secret investigator. These are two categories of persons who will really make our proceedings very difficult in the process and you will have a situation, especially when it comes to an associate witness, that the other accomplices will not easily cross over how the court could accept one of the perpetrators, who participated in the execution of the hard work, that his sentence was forgiven 50% and that he was sentenced 100%. As a result, we believe that there is no room in the criminal code in any case, because there was no need for this, and it did not change to the extent that it was absolutely necessary. Legal uncertainty, citizens' uncertainty is being introduced. Everyone will now look at where he works, everyone will think about what he will say, and when he sits with his friends and acquaintances in the pub, which he will use, who he will meet and what he will say. He will no longer be sure, if the bill is passed, Serbian citizens have no legal certainty, and their rights and freedoms will be compromised and questioned. That would explain the Serbian radicals to me as far as this crime is concerned. Professional services have to work, shed light on actions, we have extraordinary operatives, we have geniuses in the police who can shed light on any crime, and this can only produce numerous abuses by individuals, irresponsible people. That's where the danger lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26682	The word has the People's MP, Verica Radeta, after the amendment to Article 162.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26683	I find something very interesting here. For eight hours now, we have been discussing amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and only in Article 160 have they been involved in the work of party representatives, or colleagues who will vote in favour of this law. What does that mean? This means that at this time they are the most prominent congregation transfers, so it is necessary to explain to the citizens of Serbia how this ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Serbia advocate the fight against organised crime, which, of course, is not true. The second reason is that apparently the witness associate for gentlemen from the ruling coalition is the most significant in this law of nearly 600 members and this is particularly problematic. Article 162 speaks of a hearing of witnesses without public presence and says, among other things, a statement by an associate witness to be heard with the presence of the public will be entered in the record and his statement shall be excluded from the case file. That would explain why this amendment was rejected. What happens next? When it comes to Article 162 and the existence of an associate witness, I was astounded by the discussion of Alexander Vukic when he talked about yellow company thieves, when he mentioned Belgrade Airport, a 75,000 dinar ficus, Cementar in Popovac, some kind of criminal application related to Cementara, for criminal privatisation of Cementara in Popovac, and there was a reference to Mr. Vukic and former head of former Prime Minister. But let me say it again, and I already said it, to Cementar in Popovac, once a month, and Mrs Djindjic, and now I wonder who will be a protected witness in this process. And at all, this institute, it's right, Vučić, you introduce to advance the protection of your future coalition partners, since it's already too open-minded to talk about making this coalition with yellows, which, of course, we don't care about, and that's absolutely your problem, but it's not nice to devote the whole law to protecting these yellow criminals. Furthermore, last night another future Cane witness appeared in public, Cane, and today, the newspaper passed on that story from Insider's show. Cane Frog says he knew in 2003 about that police action, "The Network", that he knew his business was under UBPOK's wing, and that information was received by Police Minister Dusan Mihailovic at the time. What does that king of the tobacco mob say, among other things? He said that when a journalist asked him about his involvement in some murder, so I don't know about tobacco smuggling, ties to Djindjic, Djukanovic, that's all the tobacco mafia in Serbia-Montenegro territory, he said that he was accused of it by Seselj and said, so Seselj himself sued and got him in court. He lied to Cane and didn't blink. So you get your witnesses, and he's, you'll see, he's a future witness associate. Furthermore, against Djukanovic and dead Djindjic because he will be involved in the job. He still says, he doesn't know if he was then persecuted for being friends with Djindjic or if Djindjic paid his head for being friendly with him, that's what Caneta remained a dilemma, and today he passed it on to Blic, and last night he said in Insider. He also explained that he bought a plane for the government of Milo Djukanovic, two planes, so that his plane was driven by Zoran Djindjic, mainly, it's a preparation for this one, it should really be one big deal with the mafia, but we'll see after such a co-worker witness what's really going to happen. When it comes to the testimony of an associate witness that's being taken out of the case file, I must again state the Hague examples. When Carla del Ponte gets the full files of the case when it comes to war crimes, or some criminal case that deals with it, because, of course, witnesses-co-operates want to co-operate with her too, and they make such statements for her, and whoever is in the custody of the UN tribunal cannot get complete files, because the witness-co-worker, and you allow him this law, says, I do not want my statement to be seen by whoever is accused in The Hague tribunal, but Carla del Ponte can see those statements. So, and this confirms our views that you have brought this law to a good extent both because of the UN tribunal and that you have identified it with the UN tribunal's rules. When we spoke in principle, I told you, Minister, that you've seen a lot of movies about secret agent James Bond, and today it seems to me, though, that this does not apply to you, but to one of the colleagues who spoke here, that the experiences are not only from those films, but are also from the Spanish series. Because here it's said that it's a big thing that a witness associate admits to committing a crime and it's a confession with the elements of remorse. That reminds me, you know, in the Catholic Church, we look at it in these shows, and I know it, and otherwise, that whatever crime you want can be committed and that you pray twice to your father, and it's worth it, of course, behind those bars where the friar stands, and on the other hand, whoever did that crime, and then he forgives it. So that's what you're trying to bring into this law. Let me tell you, when I mentioned the Catholic Church and their clergy, the story I heard in 41 when in my native Livna Friar at the altar at Mass, I invited all the Ustashas to go and slaughter Serbs, and asked them to kill his sister first, because she was married to a Serb. Of course, they did, and he said he would wait for them to come after that to confess, confess his crime, and God would forgive them. You in this law, besides being forgiven by God, but of course, neither to you nor to them, you will, it is important from a legislative point of view that you forgive them. There's something else significant to be said here, he says, it doesn't matter what whoever committed the crime, and he's going to be an associate witness, which will be released from punishment, it's important, my people, that he is free of criminal responsibility. I don't know who you think you're going to convince that it really is and who cares who came here to be an associate witness. He's a criminal, imagine what that man's moral character is, and most important to him is that he doesn't go to jail. And whether he'll be released from prosecution or not, he doesn't care. He'll be as a witness associate to please the prosecutor until he's fit, and of course, he'll never go to jail and still be a criminal. This story is that you, in this way by law, and especially by the witness-co-worker institute, will protect this country from organised crime, it's a really unserious story. A witness associate only encourages the execution of criminal acts. The witness associate is incentivizing because whoever is prone to crime can do whatever crimes they want. He will come, when he gets tired of it, to the DA to make a deal with him, to make a deal with him, and that he will confess everything he has done, so that he will not be held responsible, or go to prison, and in the name of that treaty, he will testify to whatever the prosecutor wills and against whoever he wills. In that sense, I think this is very bad and that it must not remain in this law at all. Of course, when it comes to a settlement, it's amazing what abuses can come out of this institute and out of this law. We have the same experience again similar to the Hague tribunal. I don't know if your fellow witnesses are going to kill themselves like those hashies, when they realize they've gone too far, that they're asking too much of them, and that's what's going to happen here. Milan Babic admitted in his letter, which he left in The Hague, that he could no longer, because the Hague prosecutor asked him for more and insisted he testify further in the case, even in that case. He couldn't take it anymore. The same will be done by your prosecutors with this institute. Imagine when you choose to buy out that director of the National Office for Deputy Public Prosecutor, how he's going to use an associate witness institute to protect his criminals from the "yellow" enterprise. It's also said here, and it's so ironic, that it's true that in every situation, whatever the law, there are possibilities of some abuses, but this is so specialized, this witness associate, that these abuses are almost minimal, but that this colleague remembers some other times when secret techniques are applied to extort statements, for confessions, etc. Today, the newspaper is full of these secret techniques, i.e. a full newspaper of people who declare themselves, give statements and interviews about how they are harassed in the MUP, how many were beaten, they have torn off the spleen, permanent disabled are many left in this so-called. democratic time, from 2000 to today, passed through the hands of police inspectors. Regarding these secret techniques, I don't know if the colleague who talked about it, when he said it was in past times, whether he meant last and last year, when this same government was in power, whether he meant the district judge from Novi Sad Miroslav Alimpivic, who sought witnesses for the Ovcar case, threatened their families, sent people from UBPOK, personally came to the New Sad prison to blackmail these people who were detained, to tell them that he could solve all life problems, as he solved the bloody Boris, and they just witnessed what he was asking them to do, and if they didn't accept it, then they're waiting 40 years in prison. He was amazed when one of those detainees, who was later released, said: "Sir and gentlemen of the judge, I am an honorable soldier and I choose 40 years between treason and your conditions." Unfortunately for them, they didn't call him guilty, they didn't have the elements and he didn't get those 40 years. So, these are just a few examples, and there are as many of them as you like, any member of this proposal for this criminal code might be able to type up examples of life, which are in favour of accepting our amendments and that witness associate, I repeat, is not the way to fight organized crime. What the minister said was that we should put someone in their ranks, Minister, into some of your ministries that are up to their necks involved in crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26684	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I realized, hopefully, that the remark which was made at the expense of the ruling coalition's representatives, if I quote correctly, and their participation in the debate at a certain time, I realized that this might be an objection to the fact that it was too much with the respect of Article 173(1) and I'm giving a six-minute break to see if it's true, that it's possible that the session transfer is too public at this point and that too many people are watching. We'll check it out right away. I'll be back in the O.R. in six minutes. [[After break – 18.55]] I'll keep you posted. I've checked. Therefore, there is no abuse of Article 173(1). I'm asking if anyone else wants to talk about this amendment. No, I don't. Thank you. Before we move to Amendment 163, the word has Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26686	Here, I'm reporting for the following reason: I've been called several times and I mean inappropriately. That government in crime, I'm a member of the government. Here, I'm willing to sit down if it takes two days, and you're willing to list anything and any reason, if you find me in any crime, I'm willing to hear everything and accept. I'm just saying, don't say that if I sit here. I don't mind if you have any information to take it out. I'm ready to sit for days. I know you can't find me. It's said - the minister watches movies. I asked, are you there, is there a good situation with us, there's no crime, there's no corruption, so there's nothing to change, because some of them went out with that thesis -- wonderful police, so your courts aren't so bad, well, the prosecution. Whether we need to change or not, whether we can do something, it is undeniable that the people complain that we have corruption and crime. We know it ourselves, let's say it. If we know if we're going to do anything to make a difference. Here's the law. Let's try to do it. One thing we do is give new techniques the opportunity to deal better and more effectively with this crime that's getting more and more complex, richer and better equipped. If we can't parry him, then we can say tomorrow - he won the crime. Another thing, for the people say, "Well, for God's sake, why do we have a course of action?" We're going to come up with suggestions to speed up the transfer procedures, like the whole world is doing right now, to what's-his-name. Prosecution investigations, to speed them up and force the prosecutor to do the right thing, as a party, to collect evidence and offer, and the court indeed to judge as an independent authority. You're saying-- that's not necessary. You're asking why they didn't answer. I really can't comment on why others didn't show up, but we had a situation where there was a lot of time lost in the afternoon in connection with the confiscation of property or the blocking of property acquired by a criminal offense or a suspicion that there was a crime. Why? Because we need to make it indisputable that it was a problem so far that the proceedings have been going on for years, the one who committed the crime and obtained the property benefit of God has been using it for my own defenses, which to transfer the money to what the Virgin Islands say, and then to return the money and buy certain companies here, and the proceedings have been dragged away. Well, we wanted to finish it. So I'm saying, we can deal with politics, but please, let's stick to the law. Here, as it's brought out, I haven't heard any more valid argument than this fact -- we don't think that this institute should. I'm asking why? What has been said so far, e.g. It's been said why the damaged complains? And an example is given where there are no damages. So, please, in counterfeiting money, what kind of damage? The state is on official duty. In the case of a criminal offence against the state and the people of the states, he is prosecuted by official duty, and the authorities are the prosecution and the court judges him, there are no damages. I'll even take an inadequate example. I just think that when it comes to this institute, let it be clear once. It is clearly said - only in exceptional cases, when one Celebrities requires it, i.e. There's no other way to do that, or it's being embroidered with so many difficulties or some very difficult things that this is more cellularly applied. So, exceptional cases. Not as they want to create a picture here that it's maltene in every procedure will now be a protected witness etc. No, there are only a number of techniques here, and it's said that in exceptional cases this can also be applied when cellulosic or indeed means benefit to the state, far greater than possibly any damage that would occur. So I'm saying if we're considering this, I accept in principle that someone doesn't think I need that institute, but there's no reason to move here to me and say that I'm introducing The Hague tribunal and things like that. Indeed, this was done with the desire to solve our problem. We don't have to talk about The Hague. I've given my opinion several times, so there's no need. But really don't let us tie him to what we offer as one of those best solutions to finally get in the way of what bothers all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26687	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Member of the 163rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26688	The minister has made a good introduction for this amendment. Now he won't listen to what I'm saying, and then he comes out and says things. There was a talk earlier about us here representing some naked story, as Mr. Aligrudic said, and you swear on an effective fight. If it wasn't for this law, there wouldn't be an effective fight against crime, so you called for positive examples, or for the practice of some countries. I have to tell you, as far as organized crime in Italy is concerned, it's a problem that's at least as it is, changing some form of occurrence, but it's been going on for 300 years. In America too, not to speak in other states. A crime phenomenon like this came to us at the beginning of 91, 92, 13. Until then, we've had a proper distribution of criminals. They were mostly abroad. They operated in Germany, France, Switzerland. Now let me give you one very interesting piece of information. Every day 500 people from Cetinje operate in Italy, Switzerland, Austria, France and they're proud of that information, you should know that. So, if we're already talking about an effective fight against crime, then probably even the existing law is not an obstacle to courts, prosecutors and police. Now, the will to apply the consistent law is problematic and all that you could hear, and as far as the government, ministers are concerned, although no one specifically said about you, Mr Stojkovic, a few prosecutors, etc., it is precisely in the function of a more effective fight against crime and an attempt to paint where these interferences are, what is it that hinders the application of the existing law. Now, that's where we end up by the system of good wishes, etc. And when you refer to the normative practice of some countries, believe it works this way, so you know what, Americans have Cape Cannells where ships are launched, Colombia. So why don't we have that? It's about that rank. They have spaceships, which Serbia doesn't have a spaceship. How did they handle it? They made a law on a spaceship. Now, let's make a law on a spaceship. When that spaceship of ours will take off - never. You let it go, you take out this crime. However, you have this crime in institutions. Look how many banks there are. Whoever founded them, who founded the Raifhaisen Bank, ask Jelasic. In the end, why ask Jelasic, even against him, are some proceedings. There you go, some reason why what's going on, but we're going to slowly, we're going to have a lot of amendments. You're talking about means of proof, of action as techniques. There is a problem that you interpret proof and the problem of truth as a technical problem, a technical question. That's never a technical question. This law was probably written to you by professors who are much more familiar with criminalism, police techniques, than those with judicial experience, in terms of what is a search, as it is conducted, etc. There is a feller, although it looks a little like that code of Republika Srpska, but there are some changes. The witness associate is a problem. Now I'm going to show you ministers on one case. As for Article 163, he first has the wrong name for a member, he says - Fulfilling the duties of an associate witness, and the whole member refers to the measuring of the witness-coworker's sentence. You'd better have written punishments or punishments to an associate witness or nothing. It's so much better if there's nothing. Look how it's moving. A witness who has given a statement to the court in accordance with the obligations laid down in Article 157 of this Code shall be sentenced within the limits prescribed by the Criminal Code for the Crime of Organized Crime. A criminal act of organized crime can exist, it's so-called. criminal associations, but you didn't include Article 21 here, where you gave a definition of what organized crime is. You're here talking about crimes with that name. It doesn't exist. Organisation of criminal associations, criminal groups is a form of complicity, gang, groups etc. What are the conditions? Three or more persons, hierarchy, organization, criminal target, criminal plan, and crimes committed. I gave you a very short definition of organized crime as a serial machine that reproduces. The purpose of this machinery, these human organizations, is to perform actions, gain profit or position. You are here talking about the criminal offense of organised crime, the Criminal Code, and you are aware that it is possible that the criminal group is organising crimes that are not contained in the Criminal Code, because we have scattered criminal law, in almost every law of Dinkic, there is a certain particular crime. The first great lack of this member. Now I'm not talking at all about the principle difference why there shouldn't be an associate witness. I'm just interpreting what you wrote. You wrote that - throw your hand at half past six, if you're served, if you charge these in your criminal organization, you'll get half the fine you'd be given. Now the pearl of all of that is heading 3. On a proposal from the public prosecutor, the court may exceptionally, taking into account the importance of the testimony, that is what you say to be celery, which has been given by an associate witness, keeping an associate witness before the court, his former life, and you know who himself is in a criminal organization and his former life suggests this tendency, other essential circumstances of the witness-co-worker to be found guilty, and to free him from punishment. Look at the situation. No doubt he has committed a crime, but he is not punished. He is not punished not because it is an act of small social danger, but is not punished because it is a satisfaction given to him because he helped to expose an organized group. But what's further is worrying. The appeal is not allowed against this verdict. You don't allow a complaint, which means the D.A. sat down with Art, kissed, where you are, the Duke, where you are, Serda, if we're going to do this, we will, come on, you're going to admit, that, that, that, and in his confession, I know, he told me, I know, that's what he told me. Mr. Minister, I have experience with one subject. In this criminal group, based on your say-and-tells, not your specific but prosecutor's witnesses, the investigating judge of that anti-organized crime department had to go abroad to check out a defendant who, by some standard, was suspected of a statement stemming from a co-worker's witness. Look how dangerous that is. Now I'm going to give you another example in favour of an SRS pledge to preserve the state union. In Montenegro, the process of separation, separation, hatred, etc. According to Serbia and Serbs, the moment someone concluded, and this is Milo Djukanovic, that he cannot be a life-long president of the state and prime minister of the government, because the Supreme Court of Italy has been considering, at the request of Prosecutors Naples and Bari, whether his immunity in force in the SRJ is an obstacle for Italian authorities to arrest him while abroad. They decided that his immunity, at the time of the President of the Republic, was only valid in the territory of the SRJ. He's 16 years in power, but he doesn't like to go out of his principality, because in order to be quiet, he has to get guarantees from that country where he's going, which is why he formed the foreign ministry and put those things he's talking to that accent. The lawyer's sister gets hired as soon as a newspaper article appears in Italy, she taps two million euros across the bar, pays someone there, peacefully. His business partners who worked and lived, and who were sheltered in Montenegro, who organized those yachts, the fast ones they transferred, were arrested there. Srecko Kestner opened the story a few years ago in Switzerland and it is not collateral damage to Cana Žabac, and Jovica Stanisic, and others. Cane Zhabac boasted that in 96, December, 500,000 marks gave Dragoljub Micunovic to give Djindjic to preserve the protests and he boasted. And on that basis, he felt he had the right to build a factory. Where? Kragujevac, Indjia. Who represented him? The one representing these homosexuals, Zarko Korac, as Deputy Prime Minister, is in charge of these negotiations. You don't have those elements of organized crime. Yes, you do. Was your current law a distraction to clear that up? It's not. You see why this witness-coworker is dangerous. He's dangerous because he shows that you want to fix the cosmodrom, whether in Kragujevac, Belgrade, CZ, where we would fly from, Colombia, space shuttles to the sky, and we can't technologically do that. Please, for 300 years they've been fighting organized crime, and they probably had to come into a position to use such an associate witness. We've had crime escalated in the last 15 years, but he's been imported. It is an integral part of the strategy for the crackdown of the SRJ, the crackdown of the SFRY, Serbia-Montenegro, Serbia. Whom does Hashim Thaci finance in Serbia? Take a look at your associate investigators' reports. B.I.A.P.D., military intelligence, everyone has data. Who is funding Cedomir Jovanovic, who is funding Natasa Micic, Batic, these political opponents, Canka? Ask, don't let me tell you from the pay phone where those documents are. I got it, I'm stealing. I have, I steal, wherever I get, I steal documents that I have everything, I have everything I need. I am in politics, Mr. Minister, and I published a book on Canet Subotic, which is what we published on 300 pages, on Milo Djukanovic on 1000 and some sides. We had to study everything. If anyone listens in Montenegro, round no, be against it. Why cooperate in preventing him from going to criminal responsibility, Milo Djukanovic. He's a criminal who's tearing up the country. These before you have torn the country apart for crime. "Sabela" to replace one mafia with another mafia. Please, 13,000 people have been detained and what has been detained and how many proceedings have been initiated. New techniques. Here you are in court of a new technique, all the drunk judges. Why didn't they finish the trial for the murder of Djindjic, where it's true, where the truth is lost, where Wisbaden is, where this third witness, the fourth witness, who is the flyer, who is the looper. What did the witnesses-co-workers do? Nothing. What are those judges? The ones who signed up to have twice the salary. Are those the judges? Qualified to judge this. What are we talking about? Who's fighting crime? Who's in favour of an effective fight against crime. Do not call on us to prevent our amendments and our legal views on these issues from fighting crime. That's not true, Mr. Minister. That's where you insulted us. We want to improve solutions and we want to tell you what the witness associate means in our terms, and here are a few examples I've shown. A witness associate in our terms is our Colombia, a space shuttle, don't compare us to America and Italy. Italy can make an alpha Romeo that will go 300 an hour, but Serbia cannot. A fellow witness in Sicily, and there is no one there, but according to Naples and Milan above, and in Serbia, it is two different concepts. (President): Please, time. We warn you, you'll get into a situation where you'll wave at us with the law and say, please, we've got it all prescribed, so after the next law and we've trained them to work. He's not giving the results again. Someone just attacked us and said, we have to use all the resources to achieve our goal. What's the point? The point is true, the goal is to get a criminal to go to jail and an innocent man to be free. We have to keep an eye on the means to get there. We're not gonna let the most immoral people play moral witnesses on us. I question every associate witness in our terms. For what? Material reasons, moral reasons, unfortunately and political reasons. Anything could be a reason for an associate witness to be a false witness. By protecting themselves, they'll charge everything and everything. That's what we're warning you about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26689	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic has the word, and the People's Messenger, George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26690	This is where you are requested to delete this member. This member in his three attitudes is trying to say what the court's obligations are to the witness associate, that is, when it comes to giving judgment. Of course, as a result of the fact that someone has been declared an associate witness in the process, it has to be read in something, and it is evident that this person is advertised guilty, and then within the limits of the prescribed Criminal Code for a criminal offence for which the proceedings are conducted, of course, is measured by punishment, which is individually measured against what is revealed and what is its contribution to this criminal act, which is the measure of participation. Then the measured penalty is reduced by one half. That's the consequence. We can talk about this and say it's not good, it doesn't take half, it takes two-thirds, it doesn't need anything at all, etc. There's no debate here. Here's the debate on whether we need an associate witness or not. If we don't need an associate witness, then the ones who predicted this member's removal are absolutely right. If we delete one member who introduces an associate witness, everything else is necessary. In that sense, this amendment is consistent with the other amendments that have been submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, we need an associate witness, because the witness associate is the institute that will help us get the major criminals, the organizers of the criminal groups, the ones who set up a criminal association to put them where they belong in prison, in a fat prison sentence. That's what we need. Let's speak the most common language, let's see what we'll do with the small fish in relation to those who are able to make life difficult for our citizens, destroy the lives of our young generations, those who will be responsible the next day for the fact that our children are able to easily come up with heavy intoxicating drugs, go astray and thus destroy their lives. It's something we can't allow here. Therefore, this institute has its purpose not to be a rule with the help of someone from a criminal gang, always freeing half of his deserved punishment or eventually freeing him from punishment, so that we know that there is always someone, one, two, three persons, who will be subscribed to be a witness associate. There's no interest in an associate witness. That's what someone in the legally prescribed procedure determines. Whether he's willing to be an associate witness or not. When someone finds out they're after him and that the crimes he's been involved in, it's normal, and I agree with that, with that remark, that they'll come to his senses to offer themselves as an associate witness to make it cheaper. That's a normal thought. But he doesn't choose his role, he doesn't choose a hard-core criminal to play whether he'll be given half the sentence or not. It determines this society through a mechanism, and this state, through a mechanism that is strictly prescribed by this law. If that is true, and it is true, then there are at least two state bodies that decide on it: a public prosecutor on the one hand, who assesses criminality at a given time and, on the other hand, the larger one, who is not identical to the prosecutor, because they are both parties. When I explained that, now let's see this about this third attitude, which has caused some misunderstanding from the O.R., how it's possible that a sentence which releases someone who's been found guilty of a felony is not allowed against that verdict. It is possible, because this verdict is made extremely, on a proposal by the public prosecutor. It's an express court, and certainly that's the result of the verdict, we will again be extremely banal in expression, a deal with the very person charged with this crime and who was a witness associate in the proceedings. So who's going to complain here? Find me a side that complains here. If you mention the damaged, we will return to a member of the law that regulates the issue of damage. Then we'll see that what was said in article 161 about the right to appeal is damaged in the right place. We can't leave the damaged one out here. He had the right to appeal for a decision bigger than to be declared a witness associate, he had the right to do so and it was provided for by the Constitution and the right to appeal was guaranteed. Why? Because when someone is already declared a witness associate, the consequences of article 163 appear automatically. It's only possible to build them in two ways. First, to give him half the sentence provided for, or previously measured, and then possible to be released from punishment exclusively provided that the testimony and conduct before the court are taken into account, an earlier life. Let us be very careful when we talk about the most difficult criminals being free. First, he won't be at large, and two, considering his earlier life. We're not going to take into account the most difficult criminals, considering their former criminal life, when we give a verdict that frees them from punishment. How can someone think of that? That's not the purpose of this institute. When we talk about the aim of this institute, we also take the way it's being realized and we talk about what the role of the public prosecutor and his assessment is, and that assessment includes these elements in itself, and it doesn't decide for itself, this state body doesn't decide for itself, never itself. There's even a higher court case that decides on his position. So this is about an institute that is minimally necessary in certain cases where it is important, when a court makes a verdict or finds guilty, when a court appreciates all evidence, all together and each individual, determines one's responsibility. Therefore, it is only one of the means of proof. So it's not the only means. No one here is talking about an associate witness as an irreplaceable asset, as a means to be applied, but it's a way out of a very difficult situation, when it would happen to someone who organized a criminal gang that was selling and breaking up drugs in our country to prevent it from going on. If we arrest five of his dealers, what's the point if the guy who organizes the job remains at large, if he's still poisoning our children. If someone's still doing it, what's the point of all this stuff we're talking about? Let's measure the social values. I won't compare the institutes, because there's no room for comparison in terms of what I'm about to say, but look, there's no criminal institute that can't be given any blame, we're just used to some, and obviously we're not. Just take the ultimate emergency institute and the necessary defenses. See how defined it is and according to the new material law you know that the definition of the crime is objectively subjective. Therefore, in case it is established that there is an emergency or necessary defence has no criminal offence. It was before there was a crime, but there was no criminal responsibility. There's no crime now. This means, in itself, that objective elements of the crime have been achieved and that the subjective elements of the crime are missing for it to exist. Who appreciates that? Is that what it says to someone on the forehead? It assesses the court and determines the part that is subjective and is always very difficult to determine. Can't there be an argument against the existence of extreme necessity at all as an institute of criminal law or against the existence of an extreme necessity also an argument that it will always come down to the arbitration of the court about whether there are subjective elements or not, which can lead to abuse. Of course not, that could be an argument. When arguments against these institutes were raised in criminal law science, they stood out for decades behind us. That was also an important argument against. Let's think about it a little bit. There's no criminal institute we can't find a grudge against, because it's that kind of matter. There's only one question, whether we're going to fight organized crime in this country or not. If we don't want to fight organized crime, tell us in what way and what are the effects that have produced so far. We've heard that crime has grown in the last 15 years in this country, and it hasn't been the case before. You say it's imported. It's quite possible. What do we have to do now? Let's raise our hands and say he's imported, and then nothing, since he's imported, we'll ignore him. We can't act like that. If there is a phenomenon, which not only is in its beginning, let what is at the beginning, it produces its fact on the ground. Open up the paper and read what's going on. It doesn't matter if it's a crime on the street, if it's a drug deal. I agree with those who say corruption should be discovered in the authorities of the administration, some time if we have to at the ministries, let's see what happens to the judiciary, see what happens to the other state authorities. What difference does it make whether the DSS is in power or not? I don't care about that DSS member who breaks the law. I'll speak against him first. I'm not interested in protecting anyone at all. We want to make a different society. Therefore, we must introduce institutes that will serve their purpose. You don't think this institute can serve that purpose. All right, you have the right to think so, and I'm telling you that without this institute, without a secret agent institute, which you mentioned very sympatheticly, means an insider in a criminal organization whose character is defined by this law, and he can't be a criminal but a police officer, a security officer, we won't be able to divulge certain criminal organizations to expose. He was not sent there to commit crimes but to prevent the committing of a crime, to prevent them from doing so in the future, and these are institutes that he knows in parallel. We just heard from the minister who was the role model. We cannot prescribe the laws of other countries, but we must take into account what our criminal-processing right is and what has succeeded in other countries and has given some effect, to the extent that it is possible, to adapt our system, from the elements of the institute to take over what we believe it can produce with us. We can oppose one institute, and I'm afraid here some institutes in criminal-price law are opposed to opposition for their sake, not because we have a truly sincere belief that they will not give effect. Let someone come out for this pay phone and swear, with their hands on their hearts, that they are sure 100% that the Institute of Witness Associates, or a protected witness, why not, and a secret agent, why not, will not give any effect in the fight against crime, but crime will speed up. That's a lot. It's the first time I've heard anything like that in my life since the argument. I would like to hear a truly well-founded argument which is why an institute, which exclusively serves to combat crime, should not be applied in our legislation. We've heard everything and everything about these members of the law, but we haven't heard any serious argument. We've heard about friars, we've heard about confessions in front of the priest, we've heard comparisons of the state with the religious confessor and all sorts of other stories, which can be interesting when they're listened to from the assembly pay phone and can be used to animated all kinds of theaters, but they have no contact with reality, they have no contact with what this bill deals with in this section that these amendments have been attacked here. So I suggest that these amendments not be adopted. These amendments should not be adopted at the Assembly in the voting day, but should be adopted by the bill in this part of the law as it is, in principle and in particular, in order to finally get institutes that can serve as a strong lever of the fight against organised crime and any other form of crime in this country, which is the subject of our interest, and I don't think it's a small field and it's not a small sector in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26691	The amendment was also submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 163. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment, Božidar Koprivica submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26692	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on criminal proceedings, by proposing that Article 164 be deleted as a whole. Article 164 The proposal sets out the circumstances for failure to fulfil the duties of an associate witness and is specified when the witness loses his/her capacity as an associate witness. Namely, the SRS is against witness associates, because this institute is now premature and probably under the circumstances in which our country is located will not produce any effects or results, and in practice there will be numerous abuses. There's something I'd like to say to Mr. Secretary. Namely, the testimony of an associate witness must not be a means of proof, which will be used according to an assessment by a public prosecutor or a court, which is completely insane and illogical. It's a criminal witness, not an ordinary witness, and indeed such a witness cannot be freed from punishment, and in your proposal, there will be a reduction of sentence to one half of the prescribed. Mr. Minister, I can agree as a longtime lawyer and a lawyer that there was an abuse of testimony, according to that system, if it's up to the witness, the cow is ours. But that witness isn't a criminal, but this is a criminal witness, who doesn't belong next to a public prosecutor, on the right, but belongs to him sitting right where he's supposed to be, on the defendant's bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26693	Anyone else from the same parliamentary group? We go in turn, Petar Jojic, then Mr. Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, High Representative Paddy Ashdown made a decision on 24 January 2003 to impose the number 100/03 on which he imposed, remember this, pay attention, imposed the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is anyone here trying to impose something on us from this Europe that Europe has ruled out as institutes in many countries, and many countries do not have these institutes. So much to draw attention that this isn't a very ordinary thing. We heard Mr Aligrudic's argument. Mr. Aligrudic, I'm going to ask you to give me an explanation after what I'm trying to say. Listen to me, instead of the present, do you want to hear what this is about?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26695	I'm sorry, but I want you to talk about the amendment and one and the other, so please, for an explanation you can hear yourself later, and now according to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26696	Please, we're colleagues and we're discussing on a professional level.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26697	I understand, but not within this time frame and not past the subject. I know you're certainly capable, and you, Mr. Aligrudić, of sticking to the amendment, but please don't worry, I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26698	Now I'm going to tell you something, Mr. Aligrudic and Mr. Minister, instead of the current judicial abolism of an associate witness who fulfils his witness duties, the attorney general gives up his prosecution, and the court gives up the verdict against him. This provides for Article 504z of the position of the 2nd current Code of Criminal Procedure and I do not think it is disputed. A more moderate and criminal code is proposed to ease the solution, it only brings to the current member of the criminal organisation the mitigation of one half or extravagant punishment, the release from the sentence in the verdict, which is found guilty of being proposed in Article 163(1) and (3) of the proposal. However, gentlemen, Mr Minister, it is not clear why, in these cases, the right of appeal against a first-degree verdict is limited, against the verdict which has been issued twice the minor sentence of the witness, the appeal only in relation to the sentence may be made by an associate witness, all persons who, for the benefit of the defendant, may declare, as well as a public prosecutor for the benefit of an associate witness, the position of Article 2 163. Proposal. The proposed provision, ladies and gentlemen, is causing a dilemma. And this is a fundamental question and a problem in this law and a member. Can the appeal be made on all grounds or only in relation to punishment? You are here in conflict with the provisions in force, but not only the applicable law, but also in conflict with the Constitution. Which are the reasons for which the complaint can be made, whether only in relation to the sentence imposed, and why the use of the complaint is limited, because the right to appeal does not belong to the co-worker, as it stands in the proposal, but to the convicted. An even greater misunderstanding prompts a proposal for a provision of Article 3 of Article 163, under which the appeal against a first-degree verdict, which makes the witness a co-worker, i.e. the defendant found guilty and released from punishment, is not allowed. Gentlemen, what to say to the professional public about this, what to say to the judges, prosecutors and lawyers, professors of law school. Although without punishment, as did the previous one with a reduced sentence, such a sentence can be illegal or wrong. The question is whether such provisions would comply with the Constitution, or the Charter, which guarantees the right to appeal against first-degree court decisions. This was prescribed by the Constitution of Serbia, in Article 22 and Article 124i of Article 18. Command. Gentlemen, are we in the same position now and are we on the same level, and is now in our law, if adopted as it is, the expert public will be able to apply such a provision and will that provision be in accordance with the Constitution? So, it's a serious position, it's about the reasons why anyone can make a complaint, which is why the complaint is being made, it's about why the appeal is being limited. And if the Constitution prescribes the right to appeal to everyone, which we are now giving the Constitution to the public prosecutor to be an arbitration officer and to say, he has given me the law, but we say it is not in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution of Serbia forbids and does not allow such a thing. So, yes, you understand now, ladies and gentlemen, because we are responsible here when we pass laws like this, this is no small matter. I hope you've figured out what this is all about. It is a very wrong attempt to interpret the bill, which is contrary to the Constitution and which puts citizens of Serbia in an unequal position. To deal with organized crime like this, don't look forward and don't applaud. Citizens of Serbia, please remember, this will not accept with joy, and the professional public will see in which cases which rights will be given to which entities in the process. We in the SRS think this should be considered and appreciated, because this is in contradiction, this is in conflict with the Constitution. Mr. Minister, I appreciate your insistence on reforming the judiciary, but there are many wrong proposals, or wrong solutions. This is why we in the SRS cannot agree at all, and that is why we are making efforts and explaining that this is not a simple question, these are fundamental freedoms and citizens' rights in question. After the Constitution, the Code of Criminal Procedure shows which country is what democracy is in. That is why we suggest that the National Assembly adopt this amendment afterwards. Did I go too far?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26699	No, it's a request, Mr. Stevovic answered, and you spent, since I've neatly figured out your time a little while ago, you've spent only twelve and a half minutes, and compared to that, Mr. Stevovic has, if you finish this class almost two and a half minutes, so I ask you for mutual collegiation. Thank you. Wait a minute, I'll give you my word, Mr. Stevovic, but first the minister answered, of course we respect the exact order and there's no reason to be confused and the same as I pray instead of controversy, please, Mr. Jojic, give Mr. Aligrudić a chance, that you're looking for an explanation, that it's underhand to the phosphorus yellow, and the rest will be behind the pay phone. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26700	First of all, I have to say, one of the conditions is that the witness is telling the truth. It's meant to be an associate witness. Secondly, it's an exception. Third, an exception that I'm asking myself if it could lead to a verdict. So, in the context of all the other evidence, he needs to complete the picture of the work he's done. When it comes to getting rid of punishment, except for the exception. It's an extremely rare situation. Now you're asking why there's no complaint. You're saying the Constitution says that the right to appeal exists. There is, but if they agree, they say: we agreed to reduce the fine to so much when you confess. What complaint? The court makes sure they didn't play the law. That's right here. It's essentially a deal. The D.A.'s office and the defendants agree to make an offer to the court. Then who's to complain? It's not an acquittal that could possibly be damaged by the right, but by condemning him, he's only free of punishment. You have the same situation, I'll give you examples. You say, "Why should he be free of punishment?" For example, you have a heavy car accident, so the children of the driver die. You find him guilty, but you release him from punishment and you say the consequences are hard to guess, but it's the same act. So we have to look at certain situations that are clearly foreseen. It is found guilty, but it's a deal between his and his prosecutor and the court accepts him. That's why there's no complaint. I'm saying that the same person can commit a crime and be convicted, but the state's gambling, so she said: when such consequences hit him hard, he can be freed from punishment. It's legally regulated, not as you think. If we have to, we can sit down and discuss it, so I can explain to you that it's a legislator predicted, estimating the overallity of such a case, not individually. Individual court, taking care of what the legislator has already said. So, I'm telling you, this is perfectly fine, and it's not insulting to the law. You have, as in the case, a court ruling, but the parties may and may settle, they agree. Like when parole is passed, so the party says the right to appeal is denied. The legislator and the Constitution provide an opportunity to always or give up the right to appeal or that there are no complaints in certain cases. That's this one-- we agreed to do that, and there's no complaint, that's the story. Therefore, there is no violation of the defendant's right to agree with me to be released from punishment. It's not an agreed economy. It's a criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26701	Mr. Jojiæ, I will give you my word, but I listen very well to what the speakers say, what it refers to, and whether business conditions are met. The difference between concepts does not in any way mean that it is misread, but completely different interpretation of the concept, not to misread the exposure of a specific person, in this case your presentation of this amendment. I don't think it's correct to interpret it that way, but if you insist, I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26702	Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, an attempt to explain something in the wrong way is absolutely not acceptable. I asked a legal question about the status of an associate witness, and in what part -- can the complaint be made on all grounds or just in relation to punishment? That's the essential question. Secondly, whether that verdict can not only be so that someone's sentence is reduced by 50%, which was a snitch or was a false witness, such a verdict can be illegal, can be wrong. Why is no appeal allowed against such a verdict? He to whom the Constitution has given the right, and the Constitution has given the right to declare a complaint against any decision by any state authority. I hear the insistence that the prosecutor and the defendant have agreed. Are all agreements, according to our and international law, morally permitted? Can a public prosecutor agree on every agreement? He can't. It's unconstitutional, it's immoral. There is no immoral agreement between the prosecutor and the defendant. It's forbidden, it can't. Now the question is raised, he cannot appeal against punishment, but can he state the complaint for other reasons that the law provides: is the verdict legal and whether the verdict is wrong, whether the law is properly applied and whether it is wrongly applied material law? That's what we're different about. We Serbian radicals will insist on this until the end. You can adopt this law, but you will encounter a serious obstacle to the citizens and to the professional public, because this will not be easy to apply. That's what the real problems are, and that's why we insist, because we know what's the danger here. It's said here: he'll conclude the deal because he helped. Guys, not every agreement can be concluded. When it comes to immoral agreements, even a legislator cannot pass such a regulation and enable it, and secondly, it is against it. So, with this, it is going to violate the Constitution and the Constitutional Charter, and on the other hand to violate international positive regulations that regulate freedoms and the rights of citizens. That witness will come to someone's head. That's the problem with our practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26703	Mr. Jojic, you were absolutely right, you further explained the term used by the previous speaker. Here you go, Mr. Stevovic, and I apologize for thinking there'd be a speech about the concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that an argument is that the request to delete Article 164 is justified. We've heard one argument, but we're looking for another explanation, and I'm asking for the same explanation to be heard. Namely, if an associate witness fails to comply with the provision of Article 157 of this Code, he loses his capacity as an associate. This is a very problematic provision. There's no automation. If a public prosecutor is authorized to propose someone as an associate witness and if he decides to do so qualified larger, then it must be the public prosecutor who will propose to the court, and the judge's council, the investigative council, to take away this associate witness's property as an associate witness. As it stands in the provision, a general assessment in the courtroom can also challenge public opinion that someone has failed to comply with the provision of Article 157 and is automatically deprived of the property of an associate witness. This way by heart, writing the provisions absolutely know that even the ruling set doesn't support it. We must pay attention to these things, as we must pay attention to the previous member, who was spoken of by a respected colleague Aligrudic. Reading this article, counterpart Aligrudic said: a witness associate who gave a statement to the court, in accordance with the obligations of Article 157 of this Code, is pleading guilty, his sentence is measured, etc. What counterpart Aligrudic said is completely logical and must write in this article, but unfortunately it does not. So, an associate witness must be found guilty, one; two, his punishment must be determined, or he must be measured. Both terms are perfectly correct. But under three, it has to be said that punishment is pronounced. There's nothing in the verdict to skip, and this doesn't say in this 163th article of Section 1. It absolutely doesn't say, read it. Pronunciation is something else. So, I'm talking about a determined sentence, and then it's not the punishment, it's the punishment that's being imposed. It's a termology under the Code of Criminal Procedure. One is the measurement, the other is the determination and the third is the sentence. Please, if we are going to pass this law as proposed by colleague Aligrudić, both in principle and in particular. And one more thing, very important. In the position of the 3rd member, where they are said to be free from punishment, it is said, "A witness of a fellow worker declares a wrongful judgment and set free from punishment." It's very important to know in public how much this witness associate is guilty. Therefore, it must also be said in Section 3 to the extent of the punishment and to see if it is socially justified by the public prosecutor's proposal to eliminate the punishment by means of the set. If he's guilty for 15 years, if there are any extenuating circumstances, any past lives, any general circumstances affecting his punishment, that his punishment may be forgiven. There isn't. That's why this is left out, for the sake of the public, for the sake of the public. It's not just about whether or not we're in favour of this institute, but if you define yourself to introduce this institute, let's be clear and precise. For these reasons, I'm saying, it's very important that we don't act on automation. We're going to get into one cohesion here, and that's why we need to adopt the expropriation of this article, because it's better that it doesn't exist than it exists the way it is, and it's also the other concept that my predecessors in the SRS talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26705	Your terminology better not have a timer when it shows, unfortunately, the exact time. Mr Branislav Nedimovic, then Djordje Mamula, in that order. National MP Branislav Nedimovic according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26706	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are discussing the amendment to Article 164. The Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by a colleague, Bozidar Koprivica. No doubt I understand the need for MPs to try to correct the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure with their amendments, but I would like to say a few things first. It's an extremely important institute, when it comes to an associate witness, in the fight against organised crime. That's exactly what this 164 member is talking about, not fulfilling the duty of an associate witness. When we talk about organised crime, what is the government's intensity and DSS, is the fight against organised crime. I repeat again, the fight against organized crime. Such as the government's desire to join the EU, such as the government's desire to make Serbia a modern and economically decorated country, is the government's third goal and the DSS's fight against organised crime. Any fight against organised crime is justified. Surely when our citizens listen to this tonight, when they listen to this debate about amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, that they are aware of these needs, the need for this fight, and precisely this institute of witness associates benefits in the fight against organised crime. If he's the most ideal, we can discuss it. So he's standing right in front of us, so we can talk about whether he's ideal or not, but surely we can't talk about whether the fight against organised crime is justified or unwarranted. That's what citizens will best give their word for. Here when it comes to this amendment to Article 164. The Code of Criminal Procedure, Mrs Radeta, is said - if the witness associate fails to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 157 of this Code, he loses the property of an associate witness, the prosecution against him continues, and his sentence is imposed within the limits prescribed by the Criminal Code. So, it is this law that gives the conditions that a witness associate must meet, that is, when proposed by a public prosecutor, a larger statement is made about it. There's no easy way to get witness status here. So we have two organs to decide on. There's no randomity when it comes to an associate witness. There's something else I'd like to say. When an associate witness fails to meet those conditions provided for in the law itself, he loses that property. But there's one more thing I want to say about this fight against organized crime. This is not what Europe requires of us, nor does Paddy Ashdown ask us to introduce this institute, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a fight against organised crime, sought by Serbian citizens and to be implemented by the Serbian government from now on in the coming period and therefore I urge you to reject this amendment and accept the draft criminal code filed by the RS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26707	Thank you, Mr. Nedimovic. No, no, please, Mr. Mamula, as an announced speaker, of course, so please don't. In the heat of speech, in the heat of speech, you make laps, we know. Not every fight is justified, but every fight is a fight, and the fight is justified. It's all right, it's not even a replica. Please, Mr. Krassic, please allow me. Here you go, Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26708	When it comes to an associate witness, we should remind ourselves that according to the Constitutional Charter, international law has a primacy over domestics and that it is not forbidden under international law to have an associate witness. In addition, totalitarian societies and authoritarian societies have no witness associates, they have evidence pre-prepared, there the verdict is passed before the verdict. So this is also very important for this institute to be introduced. Because the police used it before, they were huge abuses, they were promised fines if they cooperated, and then it was played. Now, you need to regain trust, and you can't do that without process form. Form protects right. Therefore, the fact that there is no appeal here, so as to guarantee the status of that man, not to be promised in the first degree judgment, and then for the appeal to be lifted and to receive a sentence that he did not expect. Therefore, it must be very clear. The form must protect the law. Therefore, this solution in attitude 163 is absolutely logical. Let us not forget our past, our actions, and our judgments. Don't talk to me about it. I'm stuck in law school. So I know very well what people have been experiencing and don’t laugh about it. Therefore, this solution is completely logical and needs to be adopted. Of course, fighting crime cannot completely eradicate crime. It can only be so organized that it is reduced into bearable frames, there is no total eradication. Therefore, this should be accepted and it is perfectly understandable that there is no appeal for a decision on punishment. But here is the solution that the status of an associate can be obtained in the process, not that it has to. Therefore, the testimony of an associate witness is regarded as a statement by any other witness. The Gestapo, of course, didn't know any co-worker witnesses, Mussolini's Aura didn't have any co-worker witnesses either, they didn't need it. A lot of other services, too. Therefore, this is a step towards making the defendant truly subject to the procedure and can indeed expect those benefits recognised by the civilized world.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26709	Thank you, Mr. Mamula. I'm sorry, so I apologize once again, but I didn't take into account the fact, because it takes a long debate, you're authorized for this item of the agenda, and you've come forward for the line, because it was about the whole parliamentary group, of course. I'm sorry and thank you for understanding, of course. Here you go. Mr. Zoran Krasic, MP of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26710	Mr. President, to discuss very important matters. First and foremost, we give an argument for our concept disagreement with your witness-co-worker project. Whether you like it or not, that's your problem, but we need to tell you in person, both to you and to the public, that what you're talking about in defense of these two members, once you've connected them, that doesn't say in what you're calling for. Let's read a little bit. It says right here. Is there a case against an associate witness under Article 163? According to what you said, that procedure is not being conducted. If he's not being led, how is he being punished? So there's a procedure. How are you going with Article 164? If an associate witness fails to comply with the obligations laid down in Article 157 of this Code, he loses the property of an associate witness, criminal prosecution against him continues, it has not been suspended. You even have a provision that speaks of merger. Please, what are you talking about, going back to Stalin, Tito, I don't know who. Read what you wrote in your law. We're telling you that what you wrote is inadmissible. It's clearly and loudly standing here. You're saying an associate witness can plead guilty without being punished. It's just one variant, but you've forgotten the first variant, where he's calling himself guilty, he's being told, he's being punished, and 50 percent of his sentence is being pronounced. As if you didn't understand Mr. Stevovic when he told you earlier. As for the final position of 163, where guilt is found, and not the penalty, that it should stand in the verdict of how much punishment should be, so it is abolized. He's given a concrete example. Is it possible that he, a member of a criminal group, is not taking into account his contribution, but as soon as he is held accountable, he is not just a member, but an accomplice in some criminal act that the group has committed? It doesn't matter if he's in a regular procedure, if he's not a witness associate, he should have been 20 years. Who is he who can absorb it and say, yes, we find it to be your fault, but we don't give you punishment, we release you, there are a lot of circumstances and reasons in Section 3, so you're getting rid of yourself. The next thing, Article 164 - court ordered Petar Petrovic to be an associate witness and someone concluded during the search that he failed to fulfil his obligation to accuse Janko Jankovic, and he says - we are now removing the status of an associate witness, and what about what was done in the meantime? I guess some truth came out. What is this truth that came out? (President: Mr. Krasic, finish, although I fully understand, this is quite a replica for mentioning the parliamentary group. ) Here opens a series of very serious issues, which directly affect the problem of the truth of the criminal proceedings, affect criminal prosecution and as the ultimate consequence of the sanctions that are going on. If we need to solve the question of applause, say we call our own, there's more of us, so we can applaud all night, and whether it'll be better for the citizens, I don't believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26711	Don't do that, it'll be better for those who applaud, they feel better. Don't say that. Let's not get general grades, thank you all very much. I hope there are no more amendments to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. Member of the 168th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26712	Here we come to an innovation that has never existed with us before. This is chapter - Measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. Under a similar name known Institute of Criminal and Prosecution Law has long existed. Article 168 has a subtitle - A ban on leaving a specific place and other restrictions. It's a member who has quite a number of views, to be exact 12 views. So, for 11 views, we have no objections in terms of amendments. We have something, but we thought it wasn't enough to write the amendment. What have we submitted the amendment to? On paragraph 9, a ban on leaving the post, etc., which reads: "The Court may order that one or more of the measures laid down in Articles 1 to 3, be applied (please listen to the citizens of Serbia) to monitor compliance with the restrictions imposed on the accused, provided that it does not harm the health of the accused. The device for locating the defendant (transmitter), on the wrist of the defendant’s hand or feet, or in another way (probably around his neck you will also put a necklace on him), attaches a professional face (it does not look like those shackles that have been nailed by slaves), which gives detailed instructions on the way the device works. "You know, when we were little, we watched those "Resistance" shows, so when biologists were looking into the situation with some bird population, some antelope, they were installing these transmitters. Something similar exists in the ears of these cows that are in tova. It's probably the same transmitter that puts that bar-code or that record in Terranova, so this Kovacevic girl of yours, she's not yours, but this yellow one, when she steals the stuff, that's the piss, so it shows that she stole the stuff, and she didn't pay the bill. Please drop this. You need to know that people are treated with dignity. This is going to be a much harder and more offensive punishment. This is already a punishment, this is not a measure to follow him on his cell phone where he's moving. At the very least, you also have Perisic running away. The one that was released under your guarantee, escapes security. You don't know. I hope it's not hard for you to adopt this amendment at least, if the minister wasn't at least so capable of admitting that this is a stupid thing that's been written. We're not gonna record people with biochips. This isn't an animal farm. If someone is a suspect, if it's necessary to appear for the conduct of a criminal trial, we're not going to tie them up to some transmitters, he's going through the city and it's screaming all the way. You're not going to belittle people. Believe me, if you accept this, this member will not break anything, and you will restore dignity to human beings and prevent the shame that can arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26713	People watched different movies, so they have different associations, but different parliamentary groups get the exact order. First Mr. Jojic, let's finish with one of the MPs, then Mr. Aligrudic. Have understanding, so I try to see at the same time all the MPs who report, and you who answer don't always see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26714	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely sensitive matter. This is some new invention, which absolutely under our circumstances and for our occasion should in no way be accepted. Here it is said - the court may order that the defendant, to whom the measures laid down in Article 136 are laid down. The CAP shall apply an electronic device in order to control compliance with the restrictions imposed on it, provided that it does not harm the health of the accused. Now let's get something straight. Does the suspect still have the status of the defendant? There isn't. You'll agree that he's only a suspect and according to the suspect, if we're going to say, there's still a provision and a principle of innocence. As we can talk about it in advance, here he is already blamed. The device, what Mr. Krasic said, the device for locating the defendant, the transmitter, will fix and hang on the wrist of the defendant's hand or feet. Secondly, what Mr Krasic said, we repeat again, will be professional, but very professionally qualified, attached, as provided for by this Article in Article 168 paragraph 9? Although electronic surveillance has gone into fashion today, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, do not look forward to this evil from some foreign countries, it should not be accepted with enthusiasm. The question is, does that control agree with the right to the physical and psychological integrity of man and his human dignity? The devices that we're talking about here represent some kind of modern, gentlemen, noise. Are we going back to a time when a man was sometimes shackled from door to rot? Are we going back? This is what we're going back with. Try to convince us that these solutions are effective, absolutely cannot be accepted. In our opinion, these are assets that threaten fundamental human rights and dignity. Just before we talked about that article, I'd be allowed to just go back to Article 388. In Article 388. The bill, which contains Chapter 26, Legal Medicinal Products, here you gentlemen have excluded the right to appeal, and in Article 388, paragraph 4, the attorney general is required to declare the appeal if the court has reached an acquittal. Now what? He can't come here, and he has to. Now, second, to ask you, which smart-ass and expert would suggest that a public prosecutor must state a complaint against any verdict that was brought in the first-degree procedure, even against a verdict he had no objection to. You want to force a public prosecutor to write a complaint against his own understanding of legal interpretation. Why would he have to make a complaint against any first-degree verdict? Wait a fellow, it's about the bill, it's about the essence of things, and let's not go over things this superficially. We oblige the prosecutor to make a complaint against his will. He assessed during the procedure that there was no room for appeal. Now you're making him write a complaint against every verdict. Why? It's his right to assess whether there's room for appeal or not. You're here saying he has to make a complaint, and you say there's a public prosecutor who doesn't have to make a complaint. When we spoke earlier about Article 163, just to point out and connect the members, it is said that the public prosecutor should not make a complaint if the court has released the witness-co-worker. He doesn't need to make a complaint. You're here in conflict, in conflict with the provisions of the right to appeal. The question arises, is the right to appeal to an associate witness only in relation to punishment, that's one thing. Secondly, whether a public prosecutor should miss or not to make a complaint against an illegal decision and whether he should miss not to make an appeal if there is a wrong application of material law. I can see there's no harmony. Guys, these aren't ordinary things. I believe this session of the Assembly is being followed by citizens, followed by the expert public. Secondly, we will be resilient to point out, that promoter copied from some laws of other countries, which are neither Germany nor France, nor England, nor Switzerland, nor Belgium, nor Holland, nor Wales, nor England, nor America, but only in certain countries. I said many provisions were prescribed by the Law on Criminal Procedure, which he wrote, and said he ordered Paddy Ashdown to BiH. We have transcripts, they'll give you a colleague, you may not believe it, but I respect you as a colleague. I'll let you read and see that those provisions have been transposed into our law. Is that what we need? We have such experts who can make a good law, a law that will be effective, applicable, who will be welcomed by the expert public, both prosecutors and judges to apply it, and the police and lawyers properly. But don't be angry, these few institutes you've introduced and what you're trying to put in here is not Serbia's criminal state. I have to draw attention again that we can't pass laws on individual cases. We can pass laws on general actions and crime in Serbia in a general sense. So, prescribe for classical crime, for economic crime, for the protection of the lives and bodies of citizens, for the protection of the country's security. It's a felony. What else is dangerous? Ladies and gentlemen, it's dangerous that we don't have time for these solutions. We still don't have the police or the D.A.'s office restructured. What's it gonna take? This takes at least 10 years for Serbia to accept some solutions. Prosecution police investigations, police reconnaissance, that's his place and his name, to be like in Germany, police reconnaissance, and in France, police reconnaissance, while being both a police and prosecutor's investigation. We have to create material conditions for that, and which means we have to have D.A. personnel like that, we have to have police personnel running these jobs, we have to provide them with material resources, that they have special buildings. What do we need prosecutors to arrange for both the judge and the prosecutor across the street from the office to the office? We don't have opportunities, neither material, nor personnel, nor legal-political. In our country, the political situation is still unstable. We have accepted many contracts and many provisions of international law must be harmonised, but not in this way. (President:Time. Thus, it takes a long time for some solutions to be accepted and we just need time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26715	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Let's go in order, you have a chance to choose whether according to the Rules of Procedure or the amendment, but please, you will choose for yourself, just to finish the sentence. So, please, Mr. Jojic, exactly what we said, and you and all the participants, now the debate is in particular, the debate has passed in principle and I fully understand your views. But, take care, especially if you believe, I respect that, there are citizens who follow closely and let those who carefully go from member to member so that they can connect and not jump from principle to previous members. Please, that's all. Now the amendment to Article 168 was speaking convincingly of it first by Mr Krasic reading it, then you well paraphrased it and partly read it, and you saw how we all reacted together and not taking the tension away from it. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? By amendment, you can see that I was right when I offered two options. Here, the word is Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26716	So, about the amendment. Your earlier remarks on the matter are, indeed, the way Mr Krasic read this part of Article 168, more specifically his point 9), in the way he read it, can really cause laughter, and so it was, and I admit that I laughed myself. To that end, I'll read it one more time, so whoever wants to laugh, let them laugh, I'll read it one more time anyway. Therefore, it is the extent of the defendant's presence for the uninterrupted conduct of the criminal proceedings. What does that mean, so the public knows? It is necessary to ensure that the defendant is present at every stage of the proceedings. Why the defendant? Of course there are different terms, suspects, accused, accused, etc., but you will see that according to this bill, there is a generic notion of the whole process and that is why this term is used here. Therefore, it is to ensure the presence of the defendant at any stage of the proceedings. How do you ensure the defendant's presence? By calling it, by bringing it in, being brought in, by prohibiting it, and we believe that this ban will be respected, leaving a certain place or other restrictions, along with this restriction, to control whether this ban is respected, then the guarantee and unfortunately the detention, when there are no other options. What is written in one of these security measures of the defendant's presence, I will read again, perhaps, to the joy of those present. The Court may order that one or more measures (some other measures, such as the prohibition of leaving a designated place), to apply electronic surveillance to control compliance with this restriction, provided that it does not harm the health of the accused. The device for locating the defendant (transmitter), on the wrist of the defendant’s hand or feet, or otherwise, attaches the expert’s face, which gives the defendant a detailed instruction on how the device works, informs him of how the device works and how it works. The professional face handles the device that remotely monitors the movement of the accused and its position in the space (receiver). Electronic surveillance is carried out by police, BIA or other state authority. So I can agree, which I have now shown, that in terms of how it's written can seem funny or simply say it seems funny when it's read. But consider the next one, which is the most drastic measure of security of the defendant's presence. You'll agree it's a holding cell. Think about it when it comes to the dignity of the defendant. Is it possible that someone could be worse off than being locked in four walls and not allowed to move out of those four walls, by delivering food through bars, by not letting him out of the room, but sometimes it's necessary? That's what citizens know. How else do we deal with the defendant for whom there are reasons for determining detention? We can imagine asking for a guarantee, we can imagine that he was given a ban on leaving an apartment, a place of residence, or another place where he found himself at that moment, even though he didn't belong. So far, in criminal-processing legislation, we have also had this ban on leaving the place of residence. Let's think about it, the court gives me a ban on leaving the place of residence and he says, well, thank you for that, you've given me that measure, and I'm going to stick to the extent that it suits me or judge whether you're going to catch me or not, whether I'm out of that place or not. Of course, you'll agree, if we have this kind of mistrust of the defendant, you can say another measure of security of presence, such as detention, but if there's some broader diapazone of measures that we can apply, which will have less effect on the threat of the human rights of the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, you'll agree that the detention measure is the most difficult measure, why not apply some other measure? We can make it as funny as you want, but I think it's more favourable for any defendant. Of course, it may not agree to this measure, the consequences of the non-compliance will convince the court that it is necessary to apply another measure and that is more difficult, but let's see why this measure would not apply to someone, if it is sufficient, and without giving the measure of detention or seeking bail, which affects the current pocket of the one against whom that measure is determined, which is why this measure would not apply. It is funny, mentioning necklaces, transmitters, receiver, but in modern technological conditions it is possible to apply that measure, it is possible to apply without damage to the health of the defendant and, of course, under the obligation of the court to see if there is such a possibility. Therefore, this measure is to be applied, this measure is certainly milder by the defendant in any case than the next two measures listed in the law, and of course you cannot imagine that someone is forced to put on a necklace and transmitter because in this article it is very simply said that the professional person shows how to handle, give instructions etc. It is a clear point that this measure is in the interest of the public prosecutor, in the interest of the court, in the interest of the defendant, if it is possible to say so, so as not to give the measure of guarantee and not to impose the measure of detention. Is that insulting dignity? Possibly, it may offend someone, but I am deeply convinced that everyone is more offended that we are holding him in custody for all this time. I don't see why a detention unit would be a much better measure than a ban on leaving the place of residence, with certain means that provide the court's assurance that it has stated that it does not leave the place of residence during the duration of the measure. I don't see why the detention measure would be less insulting to the defendant's dignity. Yes, it does seem really funny, but it's about the construction of measures, a fine graduate who was built here to simply achieve a broader diapazon of the security of the presence of the accused in order and in the interest of protection, the fundamental protection of the rights of the citizens and precisely in the interest of respecting the dignity of the defendant during the conduct of the whole process. This may not have been a convincing explanation for someone, but to me, for the ultimate purpose and for the extreme aspect of what the measure is intended for is. So in that sense, I find this measure justified, and it may seem ridiculous to someone. It may seem funny when you read it like this, but I don't think you should reject it or criticize it just because we're not used to the expressions used or that we're not used to such a measure in our legislation. So I believe that this member of the law, or the whole law, should be passed just as it was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26717	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26718	This proposal is something that's very good and I think it's a very clear substitute for classical detention. Why would we use only the criteria from our corner? There's a world next to our corner. Why not use what the modern world uses? A hundred and a few years ago, when the first lawsuit was written on a typewriter in Serbia arrived here at the Belgrade court, it was rejected because the court president could not identify who wrote it. With one vote higher in the Serbian Parliament, it was voted in time for railways. Therefore, do not use the Aussie standards as if the world does not exist. The fingerprints were a new technique at the time, so it was accepted. DNA analysis is also used today. Don't underestimate yourself. This is a great solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26719	Here you go, Mr. Crassy. It's good to support each other in these examples. We're not the only ones, our history. With one vote against, the English parliament refused to accept the request of the Royal Academy of Sciences to ban the use of steam locomotives, because because of the speed of 35 km, which is amazing, there is a danger of sticking the organs to the spine during the ride. This is just part of the party before the break, and before that, Mr. Krasic's serious objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26720	Mr. Markovic, I appreciate your effort to develop technology, but this Velina VAT train, and now there are shares that go 35 kilometers per hour. Of course, I didn't answer because of your comment, but I think the DSS colleagues, I appreciate you wanting to follow new technology, etc., to put necklaces on people so they don't run away and stuff, I appreciate your insistence. But this measure is not an alternative to detention, nor is it an alternative to guarantee, to lay down a guarantee. This is an independent measure to ensure the presence of the defendant. Of course, since I've been doing this job a long time ago, when I submitted this amendment to Section 9 I avoided reading to you on purpose that it refers to Section 1 and Section 3. Article 1 refers in general to the measure, prohibiting leaving the place of residence, residence or a particular area without authorisation, and Article 2 if there are circumstances under Article 1 of this Article, the court may, by means of a reasoned solution, prohibit leaving the apartment without authorisation, and we in the jargon, say house arrest, in which he lives or is ordered to leave the apartment only under the supervision of a specific person. That's the measure, and this technique you're applying in attitude nine is something that serves you as a means to guarantee that the measure is respected. And I must remind you, you have forgotten in Section 3 what it says, with the measures set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the first and second of this article, the defendant may be prohibited from visiting certain places. How are you going to use this locator to check if he visited a specific location? To ban meeting with certain persons. How can you use the locator to control whether he met with a face or not? The other thing, according to the technique described here, means the technical solution that you come to the certainty that the measure is respected is demeaning. Since it's so demeaning, I have to tell you, it seems more like a kind of punishment, a stamping of an individual, and he's the defendant who defends himself from freedom. He's not in custody. I accept that the word is generically used -- the defendant, which could mean he's also a suspect, and that he's accused, but he's not in custody. Since this measure is like this, about something Orwell worked very well in the criticism of an English society's future, it was later developed as a biochip, through which it affects the psyche, behavior, etc., but I can see that you're preparing to make Robocaps, you're trying. So I'm telling you, we haven't challenged attitude 2 or 3, but this technique as you learn that the measure is not being respected, for one simple reason that offends human dignity. You have an attitude 2...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26721	Thank you, but you accept the obligations you've made, so twice as much as you've used the timer. Please, no one here is forcing the accused, convicted or accused person to be subjected to the horror of reading the law, but to implementing it. In this regard, we have promised to carry out the words we have given, and I have set an example, because of the dignity of the Assembly, so please do not take negative examples from Serbian history, when we have them in England as well. Continue in five minutes, the first word will be Branislav Nedimovic, and you have six minutes per amendment. Thank you. [[After break – 20.50.]] We're continuing our work. The word is made by MP Branislav Nedimovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26723	I don't want to waste too much time, I think my predecessors have said enough in favour of not accepting this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would only like another circumstance that is in favour of the existence of this claim, and regarding the position (9) of Article 168, regarding the voicing of the measure of the application of electronic surveillance in order to control the respect of the restrictions which have been imposed on the accused. First of all, it is a measure accompanied by modern technical achievements. This solution is known in a large number of modern European and world legislations. So this solution applies and depends, first of all, on the ability of the state to apply such technical measures. I think this measure is necessary for our legislation. So far she has not been in practice, especially because of the fact that our state did not have enough money to ensure the implementation of such a measure. I would say that the cost of applying such a measure is modest in relation to those assets that are being spent if the defendant or the application of some similar measures occurs. I believe that the legislator, therefore the competent government of the Republic of Serbia, is absolutely right to propose the application of such a measure, as it is likely that the funds that will be needed to cover one defendant will not be as large as the funds require the detention or application of some other measure according to the defendant. If you take the defendant into custody, there are appropriate costs to monitor it. So he's got to be in some detention unit, and in that time, he's got to have all the rights that belong to him while he's there. So the state draws out its mechanisms, uses some means to implement this detention measure. By applying one of these measures, one of the cheap mechanisms is obtained. This probably doesn't cost more than a hundred euros, since today these modern technical measures are not expensive, tied to one blamed. I also think that the state of Serbia, by improving its system of criminal proceedings, will be able to find the strength and means to use such a measure, as this would certainly make it easier to monitor the movement blamed in the context of the criminal proceedings, and we would avoid the side effects that often occur that, if the defendant is allowed to have freedom of movement, and within the criminal proceedings, it is estimated that his presence must be controlled, he flees the country and becomes unreachable to the authorities responsible for bringing him in. For this reason, I believe that this amendment should be rejected, because the amendment reads as "expect". So there would be no possibility of introducing such a measure. For this reason, I believe it is necessary to support the proposal sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't waste any more of your time, and I'd like to thank you for the time you've listened to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26724	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment to Article 178. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 205th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26725	Dear Members of the People, we have reached Article 205. The draft law on criminal proceedings, and it applies to the minutes. On behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, by proposing that in Article 205, Article 3, after the words "entered in the minutes" be deleted, and that the rest of the text be deleted, and that the words "when it is considered necessary" be deleted in paragraph 3. It is precisely the proposal of this member, for which I have asked for an erasure, that the drawing up of the minutes is completely omitted to the notary, and that alternatively allows the possibility of doing so, as it has been done so so far, that the authority conducting the procedure dictates to the notifier in the machine. If I were to remain on this nadal proposal, in practice, it would happen that a writer often mis and incompletely enters the words of the defendant, his defenders and witnesses, which would further complicate the procedure, in my opinion, because often a few words depend on the qualification of the work itself. Dear People's MPs, the minutes are a very important document on how to take over procedural actions, for which a very large legal knowledge and general literacy and education are needed, which only judges have. For the accuracy of the minutes must be held accountable and must be made up by dictated in the minutes, directly by the professional - judge. For these reasons, I suggest you adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26726	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 219 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 268 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 270 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26727	First of all, let's get this straight, Mr. President, one of your interventions during this debate, when fellow Jojic was talking about some amendment, you drew his attention that he should talk about the subject. I don't know what you meant by that. I will explain to you that, when it comes to some amendment, the MP is saying what he thinks he would convince the other MPs to vote in favour of the amendment. So how he's going to explain it is entirely his business and his problem. I can sit here for 15 minutes now, maybe it'll convince one of my colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment. And after Mr. Jojic, Mr. Aligrudic said he suggested not to adopt an amendment to a member, or to adopt the whole law, and then explained it in a few sentences. And you did not warn him. That's not right. Next, one of the colleagues here said, "Let one of the MPs come out, put his hand on his heart and swear that this law will not prevent organised crime." Here, I swear, and I claim this law will not contribute to the repression or the organized, here's a hand on the heart, and no ordinary crime. Why? Because nobody here said it first, and I asked the minister in principle whether the existing law was an obstacle to the fight against crime. The minister said he didn't, and he wrote it in an explanation among other things, where he says there is a need for radical processing of this law, and independent of some of its 'weak spots', it can be marked as modern. So, you had the law and you could fight crime, and then I was surprised by a colleague here who got a thunderous round of applause from all five of his MPs, that this government is ready to go into the fight against crime and that this fight will be fought from now on. And I'm asking-- where have you been? Why haven't you fought crime before, organized and disorganized, you've been in power for almost three years. Why do we Serbian radicals not believe this law will contribute to the fight against organised crime? First of all, because we don't trust this government. When I speak to the authorities, I mean the government, and the congregation majority, and the judicial branch of power. I will also tell you why, which is why I could have sworn earlier that there would be no fight against crime, even though there are colleagues here, I have already said that, I have come to the assembly pay phone and this hall that at the time when the assembly is most watched, it is that this authority is ready to deal with organized and all other crime. There you are. If it had, then you would have ended the affair "a suitcase", and not Simic, who was found with 100,000 euros, would not have been a banking adviser now. If you wanted to fight crime, then you would have fought Davinic and all those affairs and accusations that remained only two days in the paper and the end. If you wanted to, then you'd end the Bodrum affair and we'd have a court epilogue on that affair, and you didn't want to, because you're in co-habitation with DS all the time and you're preparing a coalition with them for the next election. If you wanted to fight, then you would have long ago resolved Judge Goran Kljajevic, and after six years of destroying the economy, you would not have laughed at how you started fighting and arresting judges, and in every normal state, gentlemen, if a judge of the trade court, at least one or several ministers, had been arrested for this crime, in serious countries and the whole government would have had to resign. If you wanted to fight crime, you'd listen. How many years have we been telling you about Radulovic, his son-in-law, importing goods from Switzerland, destroying his Impa, which he bought to destroy, not to sell Impina knives in Serbia, but the knives of his son-in-law. If you wanted to fight crime, then you'd solve the biggest crime, and it's called the National Savings Bank. If you wanted to fight crime, you would have solved the "sugar affair", the Erickson affair, all criminal privatisations, you would have solved the problem of that big crime at the airport, those famous 75,000 ficuses and 650 dinar spoons, and they're not gold. Your judges have been suspended, although you boast, you have begun to suspend judges, and I remind you that these are all five-octobar revolutionaries and your judges. You haven't resolved the Janjusevic-Kolesar affair, either, due to cohabitation with that thieving yellow company. You didn't solve Charancic's railroads, JAT's affair. You can't fight crime because your ministers here at the National Assembly are proposing laws and you're adopting laws that are anti-constitutional. Ministers tell us it's not a good constitution, so the laws need to be passed, it doesn't matter what they don't comply with the Constitution. You can't fight crime because you have a minister who says it's the least trouble to steal a five-mile highway and put it in there somewhere, that asphalt, in a village, of course, provided he doesn't steal it in his pocket. You can't, of course, fight crime because you have a minister who says the law on public procurement is so bad, so what's the matter with Sarancic getting locomotives? It's a bad law, we don't have to apply it. You cannot fight crime because the public prosecutor does not react when it is revealed here after this pay phone that a DS official is asking the municipality of Trgovište to secede from Serbia and join Macedonia. You can't fight organized crime or any other crime, when you're assigning a B92 frequency, a television that makes false accusations against Tomislav Nikolic that he has an apartment, and he's found to be missing, that he's committed a war crime in Antino, and he's found not to be. Then on TV, a Vukasin Nedeljkovic shows up, threatening to cut off the heads of Vukic and Tomi Nikolic. Your D.A.'s not responding. You can't fight organised crime, gentlemen, because you have, as Minister Stojkovic says, black holes in the judiciary. One of these black holes, in his opinion, is the judiciary in Novi Pazar, and I mention it because in Novi Pazar in 1994 there was one big action by Serbia's MUP in the fight against illegal weapons and disarmament of illegal armed citizens in the territory of Novi Pazar. It was 24 faces. Those 24 people were illegally armed, and they were disarmed by the MUP at the time, only a few months in custody and released. They are not under any procedure, but the MP inspectors, otherwise these persons are Muslims, and the MP inspectors are Serbs and inspectors of the MUP last year were sentenced to three years in prison for carrying out this action. The verdict was brought by Judge Zejnapa Kavrjic of the District Court in Novi Pazar. You cannot, gentlemen, fight organized crime because Vojislav Kostunica has amnested Fjore Brovina and several hundred Shiparas. You can't fight any crime because a few months ago you let three Shiplars get out of custody and go back to Kim. Examples like this, my dear colleagues, I could list to you by morning, so it's a story and a bust in the chest that you're ready to fight crime and that's why you bring innovative laws absolutely pointless and no one believes you. We know this is your election campaign, you haven't published it, but you know your status, how long you're going to last, and you're starting to slowly prepare for the elections, that as you're used to cheating on Serbian citizens. I wish the minister were here, he'd be here tomorrow, so I'm going to list all this to him one more time, and I'm going to probably extend this list, so I'm going to ask him what his answer is and what the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, what is the position of the Supreme Court, the Republic Prosecutor in all of these cases I've listed. Article 270. The bill on criminal proceedings, which I have submitted to this amendment, refers to previous proceedings, investigations, and then, above Article 270, says: "The purpose of the investigation and the entity leading the investigation. The position (2) of this law states that the investigation is carried out by a competent public prosecutor, and at his request, or at the request of other authorised prosecutors, certain evidence actions in the investigation may, in accordance with the rules of this Code (this is amazing, the rules of the Code, this is the first time I hear, and the lawyer himself) conduct an investigative judge, if you are specific circumstances (this is prescribed by the Croatian law, this particular one, this is the new word of Ustasha, circumstances) clearly indicate that such actions will not be able to be repeated in the main search, or the execution of evidence in the main search would be impossible, i.e. significant difficulties. ''In your position (3) you said: ''If the investigative judge does not agree with the request of Article 2(2) of this Article, the decision shall, within 24 hours, be made by a major member of Article 24(6) of this Code. ''The amendment proposes to replace the words 'public prosecutor' with 'investigation judge' because it is the principled position of the SRS that this procedure cannot be conducted by a public prosecutor, but only by an investigative judge. We talked about it in principle and explained to you what it would mean in practice, so that the investigative judge would serve only to sign a certain act of the public prosecutor. Why are we representing this position? When we talked about the justice reform strategy, then the minister for this speaker said the prosecutor was part of the executive government. Now, the question is how can a part of the executive government handle the affairs of the judicial authority? And where is your equality of parties in the process. Furthermore, in this law it is elaborated to detail, so it is foreseen how many penalties are imposed, how they are excluded from the courtroom and the defendant, and the lawyer, and the expert and witness, all except the public prosecutor, or the deputy public prosecutor. That's not a good solution, this amendment and all the amendments that apply to this should be accepted. I know you won't because the colleagues who spoke, and also the minister, that you have a different approach to solving these problems. We are telling you that your approach is not good, that you will very soon appear before this Parliament with amendments and additions to this code, provided you have time, given that there are other actions ahead for all of us who are engaged in this business, and these actions are election campaign. In an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, among other things, the government is saying this - for the reason that the procedure is being accelerated, the court is disbursed and directed to the verdict, and the public prosecutor is getting a more active role in the process of collecting the first evidence. What does it mean for you to be relieved? I don't know. Whether the courts are so burdened, you say here, and on the other hand, the Ministry is preparing a surprise for one of the next sessions, where it abolishes the courts around Serbia, all with intent, as Minister Stojkovic said, to bring the court closer to the citizens. Now I don't just know how he's gonna get close to him if a municipal court is abolished in some municipality, but we'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, neither is he a good member of 270 nor are all these members we talked about. In this law, what's left of this positive law is good, I see President, I'm done. Once again, I call for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure and I swear once again, and I claim that this government, this government neither will nor can deal with crime in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26728	I'm sorry, you're really right, but I didn't warn Mr. Jojic, I was just commenting on article 27. It's all right, he accepted that. Member of the 270th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 272 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 273 and Article 273.Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26729	And this amendment, as before, concerns part of the proposal for a law in Chapter 20, it's a previous procedure -- an investigation. This is where we express our conceptal disagreement. We have not submitted a full amendment to all the members where there was a need to submit the amendment, which is aimed at correcting this solution, not to go to the prosecutor, but to be with the investigating judge. But on several members, we have submitted amendments to point out the illogicalities and failures that may arise if the investigation is conducted by a competent public prosecutor. In that sense, this limited intervention should be interpreted through amendments to Article 273 which starts with a title, and then, in the same way, changes are carried out in all the positions of this member, where the words "police notification" are mentioned. What it's really about. We hope that after these few amendments, which come on the agenda, someone will inform the government that no harm is done if this law is withdrawn from the procedure, and we all realize that today and these days we have talked about one draft criminal code. It is neither offensive nor dangerous, but above all educational for all, both in the Assembly and in the Government, for these in court and especially for these people who are experts, who follow this professionally. There's no possibility that the investigation could cross over to the D.A.'s office, you're aware of that, which is why in the last article, you've led this law into effect in some date in 2007. If you want to develop the whole concept that the investigation is conducted by a competent public prosecutor, then many of the provisions of this law should not look like this, starting with that provision where you interpret the prosecutor as a judit, a sniper, someone who should be brought in, etc., to these solutions that are specifically foreseen in the Members of 270th and beyond. Why does this need to be said? It is necessary to say that this notice may have some reason, if it is known that the police are doing some work to prevent crime, detecting crime, perpetrators and lighting up a criminal event. You have kept a criminal report with an individual, in the case of legal and natural persons, who may, as a rule, be damaged persons, and if their criminal charges are rejected or rejected, they may, on the basis of the substitution, be involved in the criminal proceedings. When it comes to police, she doesn't have that authority, she's practically a prosecutor's service, and there's some reason to believe that an act, which she informs the prosecutor of did something and that there's some basis and some doubt, goes in the form of a notice. We wanted our amendments to keep the investigation at the coroner's office. Since we wanted to do this to the amendments, we've written such amendments, and we've asked for an amendment to delete this notice. We don't argue that it can exist in a concept when the prosecutor conducts an investigation. But we are in principle against that solution. With several amendments, we only draw your attention, the prosecutor is the party in the proceedings, the prosecutor before deciding to prosecute, and he finally decided to prosecute the moment he handed over the relevant indictment, whether the indictment or the prosecution case. Before that, he must come up with some knowledge, regardless of the degree of probability and certainty that enables him to raise an appropriate act against a person. In that part of the procedure, he is authorized to do something, whether directly, whether through the police who is an out-of-state department, the technical service of the one who is persecuting and needs to collect those notices etc. If you're putting the D.A. in a position to conduct an investigation, and he's conducted an investigation before, to make that clear, he's running a pre-criminal procedure by this concept of yours, and he's leading the investigation, and then he's pressing charges or charges. I'm sorry, please. Then this is where the court gets around before the charges are filed. You ask him only essentially about detention and some orders, taking things away, entering the apartment, etc. These are again cases where exceptions exist, where it can be done without court approval. You then marginalized the court maximumly, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow that marginalisation. In those human rights provisions, which concern not only the presummation of innocence, but the minimum guarantee provided to every person suspected of committing a crime. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that this concept of yours - the prosecution's investigation is in direct contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that's the first thing. We can't solve that problem. You now have the situation that the pre-criminal procedure is under police and prosecutor's control, in a law that is now in force, you do not change any more significantly in the bill. But you're adding the investigation that was with the coroner again to the public prosecutor, so the attorney general is in charge of a criminal investigation. Why did you give it to him? For a settlement, for an associate witness, for a protected witness, for what? The investigative judge has become an on-call judge, who signs two orders and one detention. End of story. Change the Constitution if you want to go to the concept that the prosecutor is conducting an investigation, but please change the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code to allow a person, damaged, to conduct his own criminal proceedings and not to depend on a public prosecutor. Then there's some legal reasoning. This, four or five crimes per private lawsuit, everything else is possible as a subsidiary prosecutor and the damaged still needs to prove that status and that he has been injured by some legal interest. Today you have a situation to file criminal charges and ordinary people eyewitnesses, who may not have been hurt by any interest and may not have been damaged, then everything depends on the prosecutor. What can the D.A. do? He can do it according to your concept. He can mess up in the pre-crisis, and he can totally ruin it in the investigation. The judge is only asking for custody. An order to search the apartment and suspend the case, and that's the end of the story. You say it'll be more effective to pursue. I'm telling you, that's impossible. I'm not entering the part about guaranteeing the rights and obligations of the state and of all the competent authorities to respect the rights of citizens. That's not what I'm getting into. I absolutely know what will be used as an argument against these views of the SRS. The argument will be that, in the present system, which is now in force and according to the existing Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigative judge was not active, he was passive. Rarely when he had some disagreement with the prosecutor, even if the prosecutor estimates he has enough evidence to file charges and file a direct indictment, etc. That the investigating judges themselves specialize. For what? Because in some courts, not even the prosecutor was a transmission between the police and the court, but the cops go inside and they tell the judge what to do and how to do it. Take care of it, you have to do it like that, and it's important for us to pack it, too, etc. If you wanted to avoid it and protect the citizen from it, how do you protect it through the prosecutor? That's just impossible. In addition to these normative, there are other conditions and other circumstances to be concluded, so that the prosecution takes over and investigates, but be careful. I'll tell you what it's like in The Hague. Even there is no rule, but it appears as a custom that, after the first appearance of the defendant before the indictee, even though they break it and say it to the judge, one judge of the hearing, when he is read the indictment and where he is asked if he admits that he is guilty or disputing it, it is usually the opportunity for the defendant to plead whether he himself will defend himself or have hired the defendant, the unwritten rule is that after that, the prosecutor goes away for 10 minutes to some room with the defendant, to discuss and to agree on how to conduct an investigation in some future period. Then interviews, shootings, conversations, etc., which they underline under the notion of an investigation that the prosecutor is conducting, but he's conducting the investigation in the detention unit. And what's a pandan for our pre-crisis procedure, the prosecution does through such offices as this one here, where potential suspects and potential witnesses are called and also in front of the camera, with audio and visual equipment, a stenogram in an appropriate number of copies, of them taking statements and hearings, etc. There's no court. In The Hague, a large or on-call judge of the search party with a confirmation of the prosecutor's indictment has also issued a warrant for arrest and the end of the story, and that's where it's all over. Vojislav Seselj, the fourth year in custody, has not yet held a conversation with the prosecutor. Officially-legal in the pre-trial phase, not even an investigation has been launched. I draw your attention to this practice in The Hague and the great resemblance to the solutions you draw from this bill. Now I can infallibly tell you that in some cases, and not cases of organised crime, if this bill passes, that we will have such a situation, that at the stage of yet more pre-criminal proceedings, the prosecutor will ask the investigating judge to order custody, he will determine detention. And where the D.A. is going to conduct the investigation. When I say an investigation, I'm locating first and foremost the defendant's relationship - the prosecutor, not potential witnesses, other means of evidence, skill, etc., but in that relationship to the defendant's investigation will be conducted in a prison of investigation. Who's gonna do it? The D.A.'s office. Who's in charge of a prison investigation and who has an obligation to go to prison a month and a week and see what the conditions under which the prisoners are. The president of the county court, I think. Why did I bring all this up? This will be inapplicable, and this concept that you advocate, and not even advocate, is somehow what you have since the first day you entered the congregation constantly potential: we know that this is not a good solution, but it is an important first step. Let me remind you, you've taken the first step with the Law on the selection of MPs. You said diaspora should vote, it's the first step. 800 citizens voted. There was a tourist trip for outside officials and children of the SPS, who applied to control the elections there and there appeared by two or three voters. You took the first step, and after a few months, you saw that the first step was missed, that it was a step into the ambis. This is the same step in the ambis. A bad solution is even worse than an unscheduled solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26730	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26731	The proposed amendment should not be accepted because it is bad because no amendment has been proposed to Article 256 which is a causal link to this Article 273. So the 256 solution is accepted and the 273 solution is not accepted. So this is inconsistencies. Otherwise, the concept of an investigation in which the prosecutor's role has been strengthened is much better than before. We now have the intertwination of the role of prosecutors and the investigative judge. As a rule, the investigative judge always agrees with the prosecution's demands, they're almost insignificant. The police are acting on the prosecution's orders. Under the D.A.'s Law, the prosecutor has very high authority and is now being brought to life through this way as proposed in this law. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted because it is inconsistencies and calls into question the partial concept of the law, but does not question Article 256 which no one has submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26732	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 275 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26733	Dear People's MPs, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 275, is logical as a result of the principled attitude of the SRS parliamentary group that this fundamental amendment, as stated in the explanation that no amendment by the Serbian Government is accepted by the MP Verica Radete to Article 270, where an investigation into the jurisdiction of the investigative judge is provided for and transferred to the public prosecutor. The reasons for the Bill's proposal, in particular Chapter XX, given by the Bill's proposal, states that an investigation by a public prosecutor and an investigative judge may, at his request, carry out certain evidence actions. According to the points, what is achieved in fact by transferring the investigation into the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor and this mild form of so-called. The prosecution's investigations will lead to a potentially significant acceleration of the investigation and the whole criminal proceedings, that the public prosecutor appears to be significantly more active in the proceedings, that the criminal court is being relieved to a certain extent and that it will be more effective to implement the criminal law and criminal code more effectively and that there will be a far faster verdict in criminal cases. Looking at this provision, too, I consider that, according to the amendment submitted, the solution provided for in Article 275 here in the complaint for the conduct of the investigation, however in agreement with the previous members, the investigation should be conducted by an investigative judge and that the actual solution should be deleted and replaced by the word "application", as it was before, that the request to conduct an investigation is carried out by the public prosecutor to the investigating judge. There's no Justice Minister here. When we look at the real and real situation, and tonight we have listened to some anecdotes of DSS MPs, which was not under circumstances but was extremely active tonight in commenting on the provisions of this law, namely amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group on this bill, and a young colleague, Nedimovic, said that after the adoption of this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia will go hard with the bill against organised crime, and did not mention other types of crime. Organized crime is the most severe form of crime in the state of Serbia that has been passing through for years, and from day to day, from month to month, not to say from year to year is growing. There are no colleagues of Nedimovic, or others who have discussed here from the DSS parliamentary group, and I would also like the minister to be transferred if there is no organized mafia or organised crime or any crime that cannot be opposed by an organised state or state in which there is a rule of law. Unfortunately, there is no rule of law in Serbia, and that is why we have this state of affairs. If we look at the final provision, when the provisions of this Code enter into force, except for the Articles 107 and 110 and Articles 117 to 122, that the provisions of this Act enter into force on 1 June 2007, whether this state of chaos and anarchy in the functioning of public prosecutors and courts will continue until the provisions of this Code enter into force. Will prosecutors do their jobs, start with municipal public prosecutors, district attorneys, republican public prosecutor, with their deputies? In the Kingdom, whether what is happening throughout Serbia, and here in Belgrade in particular, the district public prosecutor's office, especially in the Kingdom, we already have a proposal that the municipal public prosecutor is proposed as deputy district attorney, i.e. for the district attorney. How much I have learned that the district attorney has already been proposed and appointed as deputy special prosecutor at the Belgrade District Court Special Branch. Whether this is the result of the successful work of the Municipal Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom and the successful work of the District Attorney in the Kingdom, taking into account the state of crime, criminal acts, unprocessed acts, non-compliance and non-judgment of the Final Prosecutor, and that those who have done those acts receive the fines, be given to them and justice given. I'd like to mention some examples of privatisation throughout Serbia, as well as about the King. The former majority owner, who became an auction for Poljo Transport, has criminally alienated a large part of the former social enterprise. It took a year and a half for the district attorney's office and the district court's investigative judge to press charges for the robbery of social property. Unfortunately, workers who had lost their jobs, who had not received salaries for almost two years still do not receive them and have no job, had to be those who had to press, in a way to force the district attorney and the district court's investigative judge to press charges. Do you know what crime: for the crime of abuse of official office and there is no more serious qualification of crime. Not to talk about other criminal charges in drawers and municipal and district attorneys when it comes to criminal charges against bankruptcy officers at the Trade Court in the Kingdom, but unfortunately, the MP group of DSS and this young colleague who is not present here has disputed the appointment or re-election of the President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom, but the DSS, although the minister is aware of the extremely poor work and abuses he has done, and remains the President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom, the DSS, or the parliamentary group voted for that president, and he has again continued to lead the post of President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom. We also have this situation that the owner of the privatised company Elektron has fictitious accounts or invoices operated at the Royal Commercial Court on the basis of credible documents, and within two months, the Municipal Court in the Kingdom, or the judge, has scheduled the sale of the entire immobilization of this privatized company, based on fictitious accounts, although 110 workers, or 112, were at the moment of privatisation, and now there are 10 in that company that do nothing, and the rest have been expelled from the company without compensation and are unable to continue living and working. There have been stories here about the work of the special department of the Belgrade District Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, the effects of this work are known to the citizens of Serbia: as many years as there have been judicial judgments of the special department of the District Court. And whether what was here tonight was a discussion about that necklace or the electronic tracking of those found either guilty or accused, but they are at large, whether this is being prepared for members of mob groups, various criminals from the financial mafia, who are apparently representing Serbia and water Labus, Dinkic, Jelasic. It is clear here what happened to the deputy governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, as he was released from custody, as he was appointed advisor, I do not know how officially his place of return is now. And in what serious state in the world, where this happens at the National Bank, that the governor of the National Bank is not removed and that he bears no responsibility. It is only possible in the state of Serbia and in the state where the government of the democratic bloc, run by Vojislav Kostunica, is in power. There's a lot of stories, nothing concrete is going on, here's to mention the King, since I mentioned the District Attorney, what he and the entire district attorney's office did in the King, and the investigating judge, and the District Court, and to mention this MUP, or the SUP of the Kings for breaking organized drug supply into the King's youth. I was in a situation, not because I was talking to a district attorney who's probably an ex now, he knew exactly how to organize a drug bust in the King. This monster that has gripped all of Serbia, especially Kraljevo, is destroying our children and youth, and in fact there is no more serious procedure for the organizers and drug dealers to bring justice. Is that because he's the deputy special prosecutor? No wonder this is the situation and why these are the results of the Belgrade District Court's special department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26734	The word has been given by the MP for the same amendment, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26735	More because of what Mr. Mamula said that the previous amendment should not be accepted because it did not extend to a previous member. I just said that we didn't want to submit an amendment to each member, to remove that flaw and formulate the concept. You need to see what we've been discussing all day. This article in 275 regulates the situation referred to by the appeal, and here it says, a complaint against solutions to conduct an investigation. So, the suspect and his defender may, within three days of the date of delivery of the solution, make a complaint to the investigating judge, which does not delay the execution of the decision to conduct the investigation. The appeal is resolved by a competent investigative judge. Mr. Mamula, look at what is written in Article 270, where there has been an amendment to the SRS, pay attention, but that concept amendment, which says in paragraph 2, an investigation is conducted by a competent public prosecutor, and at his request or at the request of other authorised prosecutors, certain evidence actions in the investigation may, in accordance with the rules of this Code, be carried out by an investigative judge. How the directly senior authority, which is considering the complaint of a solution to the conduct of the investigation, may, by order of a lower authority, carry out a specific investigation operation. Don't you think that's illogical? I'm not talking about it being illegal, because it's the law, but it's illogical. If the investigation has moved from the prosecutor's investigation, how can the prosecutor now order an investigative judge to conduct an investigation? How could the municipal court order the county to do what? This only exists in the country of Serbia and nowhere else. We don't have as an opposition the task of correcting every member. Mr. Mamula, Mr. Jojic was doing this thoroughly, he prepared 390 amendments to settle this law. Of course we can't think of 390 amendments to apply. We said we'd take 40 and some amendments. Why? Let's point to the wrong concept. It's all wrong here. What do we expect? We expect this law to be withdrawn and said - thank you for this debate, we have heard objections, we can correct something and repeat the second draft of the law. I said right away that there was no shame and no shame. It started with a concept, you see, whoever did this concept to you, he doesn't even know that concept. What's bothering you? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the court decides on detention. I don't want to comment on any more illogicalities in the terms between 270 and 277, but read each member carefully, so you'll see how many disadvantages there are. You can't apply this law. Judges and prosecutors will fight and laugh at each other. You're saying you don't want the investigative judge to be a silent observer. Well, you devalued him. He's a D.A.'s office now. He, by order of the prosecutor, has to conduct an investigative shop, not this competent one, but every other prosecutor, because that investigative judge is authorized to act on his territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26736	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26737	So you didn't dispute what I said. A different concept is no argument for what I said. Therefore, my remark was clear: either all amendments that are in a relationship or are not submitted. If you do not submit an amendment to Article 256, which is related to Article 273, then you accept one member and the other does not accept. So there's no consistency. Therefore, you did not dispute what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26738	Here you are, MP Petar Cvetkovic, following an amendment to Article 275.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26739	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krasic has just made arguments that this amendment should not be accepted. As we have heard, the mention of the concept is only certain that they did not give amendments to all the members of the law that are connected, as Mr Krasic said about this speaker, and that the mention of one concept only in the discussion of details, i.e. about amendments cannot be justified. At least here were the amendments to Mr. Cevrovic's 275th, and I'm going back to the amendment, because of these 15 minutes that the gentlemen have used, they haven't paid attention to this amendment in 15 seconds. I point out that the amendment itself is contradictory to itself, and that even separately looking at it, beyond concept, it should not be accepted. The whole concept of disputed laws and individual solutions comes down to one phenomenon that may have already become a rule -- that some of the truths that need to be challenged and lost time on this speaker. I will again point out this dangerous appearance of some SRS MPs, that they are false about the election or challenge of individual judges. Thus, Mr. Cetrovic made a lie about the Trade Court in the Kingdom, if I remember correctly, and that seems to be the rule, as Mr. Cvetanovic for the Trade Court in Leskovac and trade courts in southern Serbia, pointed out on the media the other day that Petar Cvetkovic had disputed and then voted in favour of the proposal. It's totally untrue and I have to say it. But is it dangerous, is it an instruction or an honorable SRS MP having a common instructor? The DSS MPs, and at least I, in this case, which was mentioned the other day on one TV from Mr Cvetanovic, have in no case, at least those who disputed, voted differently. The one I challenged, I voted against his election and it was so at the time of the election of these judges. To go back to arguments and amendments. As I said, by the MPs of the SRS, there were at least 15 seconds of talks on the amendment to Article 275, and there were some alleged concept remarks, which apparently refer to far-reaching solutions, which point to keeping the laws passed five decades ago. It's these institutes that have been dragging around for decades, whether it's five or three, whatever. These are efforts not to move in the adoption of new laws, i.e. the introduction of new and modern criminal law institutes. There is agreement between almost all MPs and all MPs that the state of crime in Serbia is bad in that it is a high crime rate. Also, it is the resolve of both the assembly majority and the current government of the Republic of Serbia to bring this crime rate into much more bearable frameworks, to reduce the crime rate as much as possible, i.e. to significantly reduce it. In this part is also this proposal for a criminal code, which is, we didn't forget, it was a few days ago, we discussed in principle a strategy to fight crime. So, evidence of a bid to pass a better law, which the modern criminal law institutes will be introduced into legal practice and criminal practice in Serbia, is the insistence of this ruling majority, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, to reduce the crime rate to some tolerable measure. In that sense, an effort to overcome solutions, i.e. the insistence that, for critical reasons, criticism for criticism, should not be applied. I don't think this is necessary to Mr Krasic, because too much criticism just proves that this bill should be adopted in full, or that, in particular, the amendment to Article 275 should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26740	The mandated representative for this point was MP Zoran Krasic and the mention of the name and address of the parliamentary group, there was no offensive individual exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26741	I can't talk about TV shows and these things, because I don't know, but Mr. Cvetkovic, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is also a Article 554. Let me read to you how it reads: "The entry into force of this code ceases to apply to the Code of Criminal Procedure ("The Official Journal of the SRJ", No. 70/01), this "01" is in 2001. So if you recognize something retrograde in our amendments, it's not 48 years ago, 50 years ago, but in 2001, when a more democratic Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted. By attacking us, you attack a complete DOS. I'm glad, you just have to say - I, Petar Cvetkovic, attack DOS which in 2001 took the bill made by Petar Jojic, so Momcilo Grubač gave it a little bit of a tampering and mutilated and ruined it. All that's wrong with the existing law, it's the result of the boy's operation, and you know who he is. You're attacking him. We've divided our amendments into two groups. The first group of amendments, almost to Article 270, referred to the correction of errors in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure and those provisions which were prescribed with a lack in this new proposal. Now, as for Article 275, where you said we only used 15 seconds without talking about a conceptal disagreement. Here, I don't want to tell you about the concept of disagreement. Just find me a logical link between Article 275 and Article 270(2) where an investigation is conducted by a public prosecutor, and he can order an investigative judge to carry out certain investigative actions, and Article 275 where the decision to conduct an investigation is brought by a public prosecutor, and the dissatisfied party may state a complaint resolved by the investigating judge. If you find legal logic in the correlation between these two norms, it's an honor, but tell me how these two members will apply without our amendments. At the beginning, I said that our amendments, when it comes to this part of the investigation and we say, are not to be submitted to all the members where it was necessary to intervene, but only to some, where we would like to draw your attention to this and say thank you to the National Assembly for doing a public search of something that we can interpret as a draft act. We will take into account all these remarks, all these views, regardless of the conceptal disagreements and at some point propose a better law, a team before the government proposes that this law enters tomorrow or yesterday, but some date, I think it was June 2007, 1.6.2007. So, let's give if we have to postpone this for a month or two to mix it up, to settle and to pass quality law, because I think there's even one of their amendments, where they're postponing not for June but for some date in 2008 or 2009. So there's no need for any haste. It's much more important for us at this point to make a quality law, so no matter what concept it goes into. I told you here what the problems are in your concept. These two articles I've quoted you can't be applied. Those two members don't talk, they're missing something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26742	Thank you. Just a moment, please. I understand that some strange rules have been established here. So, of course you mention it personally, so it's your amendment. For God's sake, of course your amendment is in the amendment, and in this context, please Mr Cvetkovic made it clear that he is denying something that is constantly referring to him in public, behind a formulation that was used to vote for judges, of course on the case you've given. But, for God's sake, it's not offensive, but it does give information about itself as a national MP, and I remind you that the right to replication under Article 101 of the decision on the cases under Article 1 and 2 of this article is made by the President of the National Assembly, and I have just made it known and announced it to everyone. It is not correct that now when a man says – for God's sake, I haven't done anything, it's said on television, different MPs talk about it. Mr. Cvetkovic's author made this case, and now you're going to deny that man voted for something he said he didn't vote for. Please don't, it's nothing offensive. You'll have your chance, and you'll have no reason to. Be kind, the rules are the same for everyone, because Mr Krasic is like someone to you, and so I said, who for this point in general is an authorised representative, because of your presentation and your understanding, and because of the possible misreading of the presentation of members, I got a replica, and he's replicated by the Rules of Procedure, he's got the right and there's no reason that now you two are misusing something that's already being said you're presenting private data. It's clear to all of you, the law is important, the position is important. If you think I hurt something, you'll get a chance to look for it. Now I ask you, did I hurt you? Sure, just tell me where I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Otherwise, I'm really going to have to take your word for it, because I'm trying to get all the data out of each other right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26743	Well, here it is, Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure, I've been mentioned myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26744	Mr. Cevrovic, since I've given an explanation, I'm not at liberty to listen to you so I can give an explanation. Be kind, I acted on Article 101(3), where it specifically states - a decision in the cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is made by the President of the National Assembly. Please, it's not right for your colleagues or for all of us if we fight over such things. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26745	I don't want to get in the middle of a fight, Mr. President, just for a little while, I don't need three minutes. I have not said at all that DSS MPs have not voted in favour of the election of the President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom, Dmitric Zlatko. But I said that the MP, a member of the Justice Committee, Nedimovic, challenged the election of Zlatko Dmitriic as President of the Trade Court on the board. And I remember well when there was a vote here that there was a mix-up at the DSS Parliament Club. That's their problem. Probably from what I mentioned to Justice Minister Stojkovic, who came under the right of supervision in the Kingdom to oversee the work of the Trade Court in the King. And instead of unfortunately following the motion for resolution, there was no resolution, but there was a re-election of Zlatko Dmitric as President of the Trade Court. There were justifiable, true reasons for his resolution. Only one example, and Minister Stojkovic knows this well, an example of the privatisation of the "Auto Transport" from Vrnjaka Banja, will not give other examples, there will be opportunities and we will talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26746	Thank you very much, Mr. Four. You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to confirm what Mr. Cvetkovic said about himself personally. Please, please. Thank you all for understanding each other. Does anyone else want a word? Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic, for giving up. Member of the 277th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26747	We're going with a few more amendments just to point out these principled ones, but I also have to say some indiscretions that lurk simply in all the provisions of this law. Article 277 refers to something that has the name of the defendant, the defendant, the damaged and the proxies damaged in the investigation. Now, with this amendment, we're just drawing attention to our concept of investigation being conducted by the investigative judge and it really seems modest in relation to the size of this article 277, but our goal is to distract you. Now, why am I telling you this? For one simple reason why in so-called. the indictment system, where the investigation is in the case of one who prosecutes, prosecutors or prosecutors, the prosecution has another obligation to provide, in addition to the evidence to be provided in order to strengthen its future indictment, the prosecution has an obligation to provide, collect, preserve and indictee, or at this stage already accused, with all the evidence that goes in his favor. Now, think about what this prosecutor is going to be like with us who's supposed to be chasing the NN face and let it be according to these views of Article 277 to carry out some quasi-prosecution procedure, provide some evidence and come up with evidence that goes in favor of the defendant. What do you think he's going to do to the defendant? You're going to say - this is where the defendant's presence, his defender, etc. was secured. Now I'm going to tell you what the other problem is. The other problem is that the public prosecutor is authorized to lead the so-called. Precinct procedure. Only later can he come to a solution to conduct an investigation and do in a precipice procedure whatever he pleases and wishes. He's got no control. You underestimated the investigative judges by saying that they rarely challenge a public prosecutor, rarely express any opposition, usually apologise. You see, the existing system clearly divides the phases, the pre-crisis procedure, the investigation, the main search. You know exactly where it starts, where it ends. If you can get the DA to be the commander of the pre-criminal procedure, you're calling him a previous investigation, and you're authorising him to conduct an investigation, and you're marginalizing the court, you tell me when he'll be in the investigation in front of the public prosecutor to provide evidence of the defense. First thing. The other thing is, can the defense provide evidence any other way? If the defense provides evidence in a different way, evidence of defense, not through a public prosecutor, then any more high-supervised attorney can frame a public prosecutor on the main investigation. Why? He has evidence that gives a completely different picture of the defendant. He's guarding them. Let the D.A. get his ass out there in his investigation that he's leading. When the main search comes up, the public prosecutor can only sit on the bench, because if he knew there was evidence in the defense, he might not have filed charges. Why am I saying all this? Not because of the conceptal discrepancies, but if you're developing one system, then develop it, develop it to detail, to the point, to be clear, to be divided into roles, you went with one combination, and that combination is dangerous, because it's unsettled. Now I'm going to give you another example. A few months ago, I think half a year ago, Carla del Ponte filed a motion against Vojislav Seselj to change the charges. These 14 counts, 14 charges, were retained, but since the concept of a joint criminal enterprise has fallen, they do not know how to reach Vojislav Seselj, they remember to start with a hate speech as a form of committing a crime. Where did they find the experience? Experience was found in one court ruling for Rwanda. There, some went on the radio and on the radio invited people to the crimes that were happening at the time. It has nothing to do with Vojislav Seselj, it can't even be compared. I'm talking to the public about knowing what this is about. In a motion to change the indictment, they listed a bright spot where some allegedly committed crimes, and those direct perpetrators, and they do not know who these direct perpetrators were, could have, with his hate speech, been involved by Vojislav Seselj as an instigator. All in the domain of science fiction, according to the system of how Vojin Dimitrijevic works, Natasa Kandić, Goran Svilanovic, Nebojsa Covic and those others who have prayed, beg, just move Seselj, because he will surely be elected president if the elections are repeated. He's because of the politics there, he's not because of some criminal-legal responsibility. When they delivered these materials, and the prosecutor had an obligation to disclose evidence, then simply any reasonable observer could see that this material, these statements, had nothing to do with Vojislav Seselj, or any man he knew in life. But he's got a thing for Vuk Draskovic. Then Carla del Ponte asked the search committee to issue a court order, to carry out an organized raid, not to allow an answer to that request, to hack into that small cell to get the documents, because Carla del Ponte was wrong. It did not present the material as a liberating material of Vojislav Seselj, but as a material of the prosecution that proves the guilt of Vojislav Seselj, and there is no guilt in the material, there is the title of Vuk Draskovic. Apparently, one witness said -- those who passed there wore a picture of Vojislav Seselj and Vuk Draskovic, 91, 92, all of the Serbian Guards hated Vojislav Seselj more than any Zengovac, etc. It's all mounted, that's what I'm telling you, because it's mounted. The wolf Draskovic is being held in his hands. Or you'll sing this song, if you don't sing that song, article 11 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, the Wolfevic will judge you here for war crimes. And that's why the Wolf is like this. What Bajro said the other day when Danica Draskovic made him sign an agreement, he said -- I'd very much like to sign it, but I don't have any hands, cut off your wolf 12, 13 years ago. That's what criminal acts look like, and you've done something worse. You don't know what the system is. You've turned a completely investigative judge into an on-call judge, who pretends to be a father, who hits signatures and stamps. Nothing else. Of course we raise our voice against it. Why? It is the most contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you are already treading the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you are treading it with some normal concept, which you can defend in some way. You can't defend the concept here, because there's a cavity between each member, and there's a opposite between some. That's what this is about. Now you're accusing me that at all costs we want to write some amendment, to dispute something. We're having a hard time writing amendments, but we're counting if we can figure something out, since this is getting closer, which month we're coming to power, so why go back to finishing this up again. We care most about normal regulations now. It's expensive if we play, after all the authorities change the rules. We're interested in making this regulation look like something, and that's why we're putting up with the amendments. You interpret our amendments as a means of buying time for SRS MPs to make propaganda. There's five or six of us. We don't want propaganda. Now everybody's watching some other shows. Probably these professors, these judges are following this, so they can professionally, because they're interested, tomorrow they're gonna grab their heads. Just to remind you, we have warned you of so many bill proposals, when you force them, that they will be inapplicable, and in any of that bill, it happened when you voted him out of the law that he had become inapplicable. We're stronger for that one experience. You've proven that this except for some beautiful story has nothing more to do with it. There's absolutely nothing positive about it. Therefore, it is not good for an investigation, which is imagined as described in the current Code of Criminal Procedure today, to assume that it was a public prosecutor. It's a fundamental mistake. The D.A. can only conduct that investigation that goes with him. To disclose the evidence that goes in favor of the defendant, please don't. You in The Hague have been charged, a man put in custody, and only then does the investigation begin. The investigation after the prosecution was filed and confirmed. A little where it exists. Let's be clear. Who's the funeral? The D.A.'s office. Where's the funeral? In custody. Who's in charge of the units in custody? Court. Who's bringing the solution? The D.A.'s office. Who is considering the appeal against that solution? The judge of investigation. The prosecutor may be ordered by an investigative judge to conduct an investigational operation, which could not appear as a means of proof during the main search. Doesn't it seem like it's all messed up? It doesn't make any sense. It's some failed Resave school, come on over here, come on over here, and nothing's going to fall out. You'll see. It's impossible for the professional public to scream so much about a bill like this, and for some who have been tasked with voting this right not to hear it, not to see it. I hope those professors didn't graduate elsewhere. They're the same professors, and the ones who wrote and the ones who disputed. Of course, we don't have that kind of aversion to the concept, but work it out. At this point, it must only be the concept that is in line with the Constitution. The alternative concept, which implies the opposite of the Constitution, is unacceptable to us. Why? We are bound by a constitution that says we must obey the Constitution and the laws. Why would that make a commitment to me and not make a commitment to you? I guess he's making more of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26748	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26749	That's right, dear colleague Krasic, you're making a story for the sake of story and criticism. Look, I'll prove it to you on the case of this amendment, very convenient. In this amendment to Article 277, which you did not talk about, I will talk about the amendment, you propose, among other things, that the amendment promoter says, follow me, please, in point 3 of the words "public prosecutor" are replaced by the words "investigation judge". In this regard, paragraph 3 reads: "If the public prosecutor assesses that the person in Article 2 violates his duty as set out in that position, he will propose to the investigating judge that he be fined. '' With the change you propose, it would read: if the investigative judge assesses that the person referred to in Article 2 violates his duty as set out in that position, he will propose to the investigating judge. So, the investigative judge is going to propose to himself, and that is, by you, a meaningful amendment. (From O.R.: And attitude 1? ) Here's what it says, in Section 1, the same thing, I'm just showing you on this case which are amendments and that it's impossible to defend such amendments, either to try or ask for their adoption. You're telling a concept story, it's okay, and we're going back to what I didn't say when I explained the previous amendment, and you tried to use it in some other way and said that the previous 2001 Criminal Procedure Act. Yes, it is. You have confirmed my views that the solutions of three or five decades ago, since the law of 2001 has not changed or introduced new institutes in something significant since 1947, 1948 or 1974. There was a continuity right there. What you're saying and saying, these are exactly the solutions that have been in place for decades. This criminal code suggests, yes, a conceptal new, modern-day, in line with the anti-crime strategy, according to which both this assembly majority and this government are determined to stand in the way of crime. I repeat, you all agreed that crime is at an unauthorized high rate. We take over, we work on it, we have good intentions, we have knowledge, we have will, we have government, we have the ruling majority, and we will insist on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26750	Please, you don't say whoever's doing it, something in battle, you don't say the entrepreneur of the fight. No, I don't. Member of the 277th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 278 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The government didn't accept the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 317 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic and then MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26751	You know what, it's very difficult when the amendments of the SRS attack the DSS representative, who has submitted the most amendments to the bill. What have you been up to? Now I can't figure it out. If he'd criticised us for an amendment to the DSS that hasn't written any amendments, like Milos Aligrudic, I would have accepted that. Mr. Petar Cvetkovic submitted the most amendments to the bill. You probably put up with it because it's necessary, not from a whim. I don't go into who he whispered to or why he whispered to. However, I feel bad when you discriminate against the government of Homan and do not accept his amendments. As regards Article 317, cases and ways to exclude the public from the main search shall be prescribed in this Article. Those who are going to criticise the SRS must note that our intervention refers to item 1 point 6). So if we're asking to delete point 6 it's not difficult to understand, it means that there are points 1 to 5 in point 1) and there is a point 2. Why do we dispute point 6? Because point 6 provides a reason why a larger one may decide to exclude the public from the main search. So the first reason is to keep secrets. It's okay. Second reason, keeping public order, all right. It's probably thinking of spreading the observed public order, not just in the courtroom. Point 3, moral protection, be that it's okay, although judging by what's on our televisions and newspapers, there's nothing morals about it. Fourth, protection of the interests of minors, all right. Five, the protection of the personal or family life of the accused or damaged, for the purpose of justifying the privacy of other persons. All right, but in practice it doesn't apply. In practice, journalists patch him up before the indictment came into effect, so you know. Point 6), removing serious danger to the lives or bodies of parties, damaged, defenders, witnesses or other persons. Is this how you admit that the courtroom isn't secured for trial? I don't know what you mean here, a serious danger to the lives and bodies of the parties. Someone's gonna beat the parties, the prosecutors, the judges, so you've got that watch in the courts. The defendant in custody always brings a guard from a prison where custody is maintained. If there's a prison sentence, it's known, the older guard, the guard's watchman, he's being executed. I think this case is completely covered by point 2), the preservation of public order. Public order isn't just on the street. I guess he's having a funeral in the rooms, too. In public, I'm sure. So our intervention is really limited, because we don't think this situation is possible. If it appears, then it means that the President of the Court, acting judge, greater and all who are in charge of ensuring order and peace in the courtroom do not meet their obligations. Why are we asking to delete this? Because the president of the council can say at any moment that it is necessary to exclude the public from a public search for this reason. He's placed on such low branches, removing serious life dangers. All in the domain of conjecture. There's a lot of conjecture to rule out the public. The public is required in court proceedings. This is where they list themselves, and they list the assumptions based on which someone can conclude, and the question is what kind of conclusion it is. Whether it's the conclusion of a reasonable observer or the conclusion that we have today in practice. You arrest someone a little bit when they're local elections, you're the only one who gets arrested. You call local elections for some municipality, there's a president of a municipality or a municipal assembly, you arrest someone, you raise your head for five or six days, and then these people say, "Oh, Kostunica wakes up and arrests, looks like he's got himself into a crime fight, you see he's fair enough, let's vote for this Sasha, we'll get asphalt. When there's no choice, you don't arrest. You just arrest them when the election's over. Get the stats. I've got press-clipping, and I can tell you exactly what law before the election people are arrested. Local, extra. Anyway, that's why you're arresting. Now you've closed the Smelter for election in Bora, but you've got a problem. Because of these local elections, you've closed the Topionica, and it's been polluting Bor and the environment for 80 years. Now you remember, that lady of yours, the graduate economist who leads there. Last time I joked, I said, if there was a second relationship of strength, so if you could call the election in Panchev, maybe they could breathe some fresh air, 'cause you could shut down the oil industry, Petrochemy, you could shut it down. It's your fight against crime, that particular article 317. Now he shows up in the proceedings, you see for himself, a little bit, and some lawyer shows up as a defense attorney and says I can't comment because the court said it's a secret, there's no data to be provided, and the investigation is being conducted. Article 317 refers to the main crisis. I'm just saying that there's a high probability that this point 6 exists precisely because it would be misused. And the formulation is also suitable for abuse because all assumptions are, in order to eliminate serious dangers to the lives or bodies of parties, damaged, defenders, witnesses or other persons. The dangers of life or body, in court, in front of the greater. So it's just supposed to be a firearm, a cold weapon and a bully. If he's a bully, you won't let him go. I don't know how you know, I know how familiar something is to me, but I don't know how you know what you wrote. There's an assumption here that you'd be disfellowshipping yourself. Why do you need to shut down the public? Don't rule out the public because of Natasha Kandic, she's walking through your judiciary like through Swiss cheese, even in command, she's pushing this. You must not oppose the Society of Judges and these others. We suspect that this set of assumptions, listed in point 6, will be the basis for disfellowshipping the public from the main search and that some presidents will be more eager to do so. That's why we submitted the amendment. Because if there is that kind of danger, it is covered by point 2). If this danger exists, no bully will be released, no face with cold and firearms will be released. A polite distance will be made between the accused and the audience, between several indictees if they are in conflict of interest or in some conflict. If that is known to the court, he will carry out certain actions and ensure that these persons do not exist. But this danger to you is the basis for shutting the public down from the main search, which means you're preparing for some court proceedings that you want to end without public presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26752	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26753	A moment ago, when it came to the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor and the conduct of the investigation, the Constitution is clear. In Article 95, the D.A.'s office is a state body, no court status. It takes over the constitutional category, takes over the post of trial. If you take an analysis, when it has the right to agree, no appeal is made, etc. Now I'd like to say something about Article 317. The provision of Article 294(2) of the applicable Criminal Procedure Act states that the decision to exclude the public can only be refuted in a judgment appeal. We have a fully regulated logical, legal-technical definition cannot be more acceptable. That is how the law states elsewhere, when the appeal against the court's decision is not ruled out, but only its use is delayed for the end of the proceedings. And here, the right to appeal is excluded. Maybe someone has an interest in making the trial public and shouldn't rule it out. Now look, in my opinion, it seems that many proposals are made just to increase the number of interventions in the bill and thus create a new law. So, for example. whether this is the case with regard to this article and the following. For example, the words "with a goal" are replaced by the words "whose goal is". If there's any legal logic here, I have no idea. Rate, think, interpret. The words "no delays", here are new ones, innovations, are replaced by the words "no unnecessary delays". Is there anything new in there? There's no innovation. The words "proving actions" are replaced by the words "proved actions". There's nothing new here, only words have replaced their order. The words "only for that reason" are replaced by the words "only for that". What kind of innovation is that? Absolutely unacceptable. The words "requirement retains execution" are replaced by the words "requests filed retain the execution of the sentence". The words "public figures" are replaced by the words "public life personalities". What's new to the promoter here? There's nothing. He's just trying to create an illusion that we're making a new law, and in fact we just had to go to changes and supplement laws. Therefore, I do not think it was necessary to pass this law as a code, only the law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure should be passed. Here's why, there's an excuse. You have 346 members prescribed from the current code, 116 half-written members and you have 70 new members who have been taken over from the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Paddy Ashdown issued a warrant for Bosnia and Herzegovina's new Code of Criminal Procedure. On the other hand, none of the criminal law professors, I questioned everything, from Serbia was involved in drafting the bill's proposal, except for Professor Milan Skulic, who was a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, but he was the only professor on this team to make the law. Secondly, none of the law professors gave a positive assessment of this bill. At the counseling of the guilty, held at Kopalnik in March this year, no one gave a positive assessment of those present, and there were hundreds of prosecutors, judges and professors, no one gave a positive assessment of such a proposal. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, write the law in a month or two. The Code of Criminal Procedure is written in the countries of Western Europe, so both in continental and Anglo-Saxon law for decades, and individual subsystems and individual heads have been written in that code for years. That is why the bill cannot be passed before a professional debate in Serbia, in such a way as to get support and to draft, if necessary, a new law, but not just like this, to write the law. And to make it even more interesting, imagine, now we're bringing it in fast, it's locked up for two or three months, and we're delaying its application on June 1st, 2007. What's that, what's that logic? It doesn't make sense. That is why this bill should be withdrawn, as Mr. Zoran Krasic said, we have a year to build a new law, and we have one law that will be one part of the procedural law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26754	Here you go, Mr. Mamula, I assume by the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26755	And in Article 317. The bill has a good solution. Exclusion of the public, as stated in point 6), in order to eliminate serious danger to the lives or bodies of the parties, damaged, defenders, witnesses or other persons, actually means protecting public security. Public security is a constitutional category. Therefore, this member is in accordance with the Constitution. We need to know that the jurisdiction of the courts has changed and that in the first degree municipal courts will now be tried for very serious crimes. In Serbia, all courts and courts are not technically equipped and in a safe sense as special departments of the Belgrade District Court or the main courtroom in the Belgrade Court of Justice. Many courts don't have well-security courts, and they're going to judge very serious crimes, so this solution is reasonable, because public security needs to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26756	Thank you very much, Mr. Mamula. National MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26757	First apology to Mr. Jojic, I did not laugh at you, but I did comment on something with my fellow MP. As for the amendments and fears of Mr Krasic in order to survive point 6), therefore, and it foresees that, under official duty on a proposal by the parties, the public can be excluded and that abuse may occur, this fear may be justified for Mr Krasic, but I must point out that any provision of any law, especially the Code of Criminal Procedure, is possible for me to abuse. In particular, it is possible, in criminal proceedings, to abuse almost every provision, not only in the criminal code, but in all other laws, to abuse the provisions and that is not sufficient justification for the proposal to delete point 6. There may be room for anxiety, but as Mr. Mamula said, this is a constitutional category, this is to add something more than what you said to people who could threaten security, or who could endanger the life or body of the parties in the proceedings, any other persons in the courtroom, and that apparently the judicial security, as we will call it, could prevent such persons from entering, or prevent them from entering, or not allowing funds, such as you said, weapons. I don't think the court security can know, at some point in the hypothetical process, that all persons, who participate passively as observers or actively in the process, will at some point behave. Therefore, it is necessary to make such a provision, which will refer to any situation that may occur during the procedure, and must be interpreted closely, not with the concern that you have expressed, because I also remind Article 317, says - the greater may, by official duty or the party's proposal, undermining, but always after their hearing, exclude the public from the entire course of the public search or from its work. So, by that restriction, that is, in the opening words, abuse is reduced to the least possible, and point 4) is said - in the case of removal seriously, I underline serious, life threats or the body of these persons. The council will be obliged to, however you will, establish or determine this serious danger and only afterwards, as I said at the beginning, as this member foresees, and, after hearing parties or on a proposal from parties, to bring such a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26758	Just a moment, I ask, two MPs have called, Mr. Jojic, you and Mr. Krasic, so I'm just asking if it's a replica. Here, you're closer and you're the first to go, but I'm asking if I know about the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26759	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a question here. This proposal has come into conflict with Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: everyone has the right to appeal for the decision of the state authorities or any body when it comes to the resolution of his rights. Therefore, excluding the right to appeal is an anti-constitutional category, there is no foothold here. Where Article 22 provides that each person has the right to equal protection in proceedings before the court and other national authorities, any body or organisation, each shall be guaranteed the right to appeal or other right to a decision which is subject to its right. Please, there's a major search going on. Someone has some legal interest in the search being public and you're denying him the right to appeal, and that's unacceptable. On the other hand, as far as we know, under that condition when it comes to disfellowshipping the public in court, we understand that it is a public order outside the session and public order in the sitting. We can't qualify that differently, but this way, because it's order and it's being maintained by the competent authorities in court, and most of the time that order has been held by the court's guards, she's not the police, but she's a court guard and a security guard.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26760	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26761	Mr. Cvetkovic, I've lived in prison for 23 years, I have no fears, I don't know why you're threatening me. You know for a fact that I'm a born KP-homer, my father was a watchman, my life's desire is to be a prison manager. You know that well, I'm not afraid of the uniform, because my uniform trained me, fed me. Don't worry about me, I have nothing to be afraid of. But I've got to distract you, so don't go after your grandmothers and frogs. Article 317 regulates public exclusion. I said, we only covered one point with the amendment, even though there's room for something else to intervene here. Why? Because point 2) covers all of this, and you've been talking about a specific situation that is not a reason for disfellowshipping the public from the search, but for the distance of a person who interferes or does not allow a person to be present in court. There's no fear at all, just to tell you what it looks like in practice. A similar provision exists in the existing law. When the trial of Vojislav Seselj was held, in many cases that were first Djindjic, and others who were moving against Vojislav Seselj, rarely when the problem of the size of the courtroom appeared to be public. Scepanovic made special lists, for reasons known to him, but did not exclude the public, and some judges excluded the public. One from the First Municipal Court ruled out the public for a publicly promised reward, and I guess that's what the state should pay for at last. He ruled out the public from one part of the procedure, when the police were to come with their representative and engage in the procedure. The police never wanted to come. Always the public's exclusion was in whose function? And whose damage? That's too bad, Vojislav Seselj. The problem with point 6 is that on the system of presumption, conjecture, the possibility of putting the President of the Court's finger on the head, so he says there may be a danger to the life and health of someone, so let's turn the public off, so let's shut down the public. When the public is disfellowshipped, experts come, judicial assistants, all of them can be present, and people who are interested in the case cannot. So point 6 allows often abuses and should therefore be expelled. If there's a real danger to life and health, there's a guard, there's another person in charge, they'll remove those faces, they'll remove those faces, or, after you go with the new technique, plan a cage for the prosecutor, a cage for the defendant, a cage for the witnesses, a cage for the warlocks, a cage for the judges, and then let the public walk freely, then you're provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26762	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 323. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26763	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic tabled an amendment to Article 323 and suggested that this member be changed, and that the amendment of the member would look like this: "If the accused, defender, damaged, legal representative, witness, expert, interpreter or other person present with the main search interferes with the work and order or does not obey the orders of the president to maintain order, the president will warn him. If the warning is unsuccessful, the council may order that the accused be removed from the courtroom, and the other persons may not only move away, but also punish by fines of up to 100,000 dinars." What is unacceptable, in our view, is not appropriate to determine a fine of 400,000 dinars. This is out of place, and that's why we're making this amendment. Second: "According to the decision of the council, the defendant may be away from the courtroom for a period of time, and if he has already been heard in the main search, then for the entire duration of the case. Before the evidence is completed, the president of the council will call on the defendant and will inform him of the course of the main investigation. If the defendant continues to violate order, insult the court's dignity, the council may relocate him from the session. In that case, the main search will be completed without the presence of the defendant, and the verdict will be announced by the president or judge of the council in the presence of the notifiers." The third position we are proposing: "A defence attorney or a protagonist who, after his punishment, extends to violate order, can deprive more of further defence, i.e. representation of the main search, and in that case the party will be called upon to take on another defender, i.e. the protagonist. If the defendant who has not been heard is unable to do so, or if, in the event of mandatory defence, the court is unable to appoint a new defence counsel without damage, the main search will be suspended or suspended. If a private prosecutor or damaged as a prosecutor does not take another attorney, the council may decide that the main search continues without the power of attorney, if it finds that his absence would not be harmful to the interests of the representative. The solution, by reason, is made in the record for the main search. A special appeal is not allowed against this solution." We also suggest that Article 4 reads: "If the court leaves the court damaged as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor or his legal representative, the main search will continue in their absence, but the court will warn them that they can take the power of attorney." Article 5 is proposed: "If a public prosecutor or a person who replaces him violates order, the president will inform the chief prosecutor and may interrupt the main investigation and ask the competent public prosecutor to appoint another person to represent the indictment." Item 6. "When a lawyer or a lawyer who violates a court sentence, he will inform the bar." We believe, from reason, that the solution in the proposal is absolutely unacceptable. It's acceptable in that part that we suggest that instead of 450,000 dinars be the fine of 100,000 dinars. In our opinion, this is an extremely high sentence and such a dragon punishment should not be implanted in the code, because there is no excuse, because in practice there has been no such breach of order in the court that a fine of 450 thousand dinars, which would amount to over a year in prison, would be pronounced as a fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26764	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26765	Article 323 is about measures to maintain order in court. The essence of the amendment, as we have heard from Mr Jojic, is that the amendment proposes much lighter penalties than the penalties provided for by the draft law. Mr. Jojic, how did your MP group care about these rude and rude people who participate in the process? They're lawyers, pronouns, legal advocates, warlocks, or other people who are rude and violate order during the course of the procedure. Why do you care about those faces that, as I said, are rude and rude, when professional associations, the bar of attorneys had no objections to such proposals? It's our conclusion, and we think that our man, the one who doesn't respect the court order, as I said to the rude, rude, is the easiest way to punish him with a punch in his pocket. Let them be cultural, let them follow the rules of procedure, and they won't get into a situation to pay the fine. It is therefore necessary to provide for high penalties in order to avoid disrespect for order in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26766	Thank you. Mr. Jojic, you'd like three minutes in the Rules of Procedure now, as a replica, is that it? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26767	Look, there's something I need to tell you. Unfortunately, Serbia's Bar Association has not tabled any amendments or notified the Assembly whether it has objections or not. That's the problem, that confirms the fact, the one that we've been pointing out all along, that the competent entities that were supposed to participate in the public debate didn't participate. This speed, this shortness of time will turn into a waste of time. This is barren business. I must say that Serbia's Bar Association has not delivered a single amendment, nor has it made any remarks, as the question arises whether the Bar Association has been informed in this regard that this law will be put into practice by the assembly during this period of time and at such speed. That's just the problem. I wasn't talking about culture and unculture in court. However, it is the case that the case law concludes that we did not have such cases that it should impose fines that go beyond one year in prison, when the sentence would turn into fines and if it were to be converted as the Criminal Law provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26768	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The mandated amendments shall be known. Any other MPs please? (No) Thank you. Member of the 344th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26769	Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of Article 244 of this proposal are problematic, according to which the accused and his defender are obliged to make their evidence proposals known immediately, by the fact that the defendant who violates this obligation may be fined up to 300,000 dinars, excluded from the course of the proceedings and that the appeal for the incomplete fact-finding situation cannot be lodged only if they make it clear that the new evidence was not known at the time of the main search. It is not clear what the basis is for disciplinary punishment of the defenders. And to prove when the complainant found out about the new evidence would be very complicated and insecure, almost impossible. Why? You see, you participate either as a defender, or as a party to proceedings, prosecutor, or as damaged or as accused during the proceedings. During the process, you are proposing evidence, evidence is proposed by the prosecutor, proposed by the defence attorney, proposed or authorized. What's going on here, can a defense attorney or a power of attorney who's damaged be able to find out all the evidence at the moment of the trial? I don't think so. What happens if the defendant and his attorney come up with new evidence, and the prosecutor and the court will say yes, now you've offered the court evidence, and what you've been waiting for, for not doing so during the search. And he says, "Well, please, in the course of the search, I didn't know about the circumstances and the evidence." Well, that's not what we're interested in. The defendant cannot use these means of proof in an appeal procedure as new evidence, he cannot use them. If you use them, it is at the disposal of the public prosecutor to make a complaint, to put forward a motion to refuse, without the defendant being able to use them with appeal and to propose as new evidence. Well, what happens is what Mr. Krasic said. What's gonna happen? Mr. Minister, good evening, welcome. Well, I welcome the minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26770	Just keep going, please, without throwing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26771	And why, for example, is there no penalty for the prosecutor? That the prosecutor can't file a complaint and offer new evidence, that he doesn't pull it out of his little pocket and say, yes, now I have new evidence, I'm filing a complaint, because it's now the prosecutor's order that he has to file a complaint on every verdict. Now, it remains problematic who will appreciate it. Is the court, the court, can and does not have to follow this provision, to trust the defendant? He can, and he doesn't have to trust the defense attorney. He could say yes, yes, I won't accept it, I'll refuse to appeal because you could have invested it as evidence in the main search. Now what have we done? Now we've made it impossible for the defendant to participate in a conflicting or investigative procedure. So we forbid him and prevent him from arguing in court and defending himself. All of this would be good if it were more specific. However, it is now at the will of the non-legislator, but at the will of the judge and of the prosecutor whether they accept the statement and evidence of the defendant or not. He'll just say-- I think you could have suggested it at the main search, this evidence is no longer interesting for the court, we reject the appeal, we don't allow the right to appeal. The citizen, or accused, has lost his right to appeal. That's what I don't think should have been standardized in this way when that right isn't the same as the prosecutor's status, because the prosecutor is also a party in the process. Both the defendant and the prosecutor would have to have the same rights, the same powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26772	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Anyone else? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted the amendment to Article 382. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 388 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 388th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26773	As regards the proposed Article 388(4), we believe that this position 4 should be deleted because it is not clear proposal to establish the public prosecutor's duty to declare a plea against the acquittal, so as provided for in Article 388(4) of the proposal. It could be interpreted as covering all the acquittals, not only in the procedures conducted at the request of the public prosecutor. The proposal is completely illogical. In order to force one state authority to use a legal remedy against any decision it found to contain no irregularity or illegality. What would the prosecutor in his appeal be called upon to agree with his duty to be objective. The public prosecutor's aim in criminal proceedings is to reach a legal verdict, not a verdict at all costs to the accused. It could be a reason for me to be managed in private, but not by a public prosecutor. Why wouldn't she be mandatory and appeal to a public prosecutor against the verdict that the defendant is pleading guilty to? Could the right to appeal be a duty? A provision should then be introduced into the new constitution, which would say that everyone has the right, and some duties, to appeal against court decisions. Since such a proposed norm is meaningless, it is illogical, irregular and unfounded in the constitution. We propose that the provision of Article 388 (4) be deleted, so for exceptional reasons I suggest that the Assembly adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26774	You'll let me use copyright on this sentence, take it out of my stenogram. By amendment, no one else, a parliamentary group? It's from a different parliamentary group. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26775	Thank you, Mr. President. So I can't help it because this is so interesting. Clearly, this is about a member of the law talking about which persons have the right to appeal, so in this article, as Mr. Jojic correctly noted, in Article 4 stands - the public prosecutor is obliged to declare the appeal if the court has reached a liberating verdict. And you noticed that this article is practically, you yourself stated that there is a constitutional problem here, etc. However, I must draw attention to the following. This provision of the position (4) of Article 388, which speaks of the public prosecutor's obligation to declare a plea for acquittal, should only be observed in the context of the overall proposal for a law given here, in the context of other provisions which we have in relation to the position of the public prosecutor in the proceedings. Just remember his role in the investigation, just remember his role in the process, in the part where he's powerful enough to do so. So, on that side, a highly justified question arises. If someone, which is a public prosecutor, is not a private prosecutor in a lawsuit, so let's say - a private prosecutor may or may not declare a complaint, it's scandalous, it's unconstitutional. This is about a public prosecutor, this is about a law that regulates one matter of criminal proceedings and is about the position of a public prosecutor. We are telling him at this point by this provision - is it possible for you, Mr. Public Prosecutor, to let the entire course of the debate run and to remain on the charge until the end of this investigation, so that the court will bring a final verdict on the defendant. If that's true, and given what we've just forgotten, the powers behind which we stand when we've put this bill, which you as a prosecutor have, if you'll allow the acquittal to take place, I'm sorry, you're obliged to file a complaint against that verdict. It was the only reason. I can only agree to the ultimate colloquial of what you've said so far. I can't do it in that sense, I'm just making another kind of argument without the need to replicate, so I'm not touching anything from what you said about the pay phone. I'm standing behind it, standing there like something's possible. But this is about very simple weight. If a public prosecutor, represented the indictment throughout the proceedings and had those powers which he had in the first phase of the proceedings, in all other stages of the proceedings and experienced an acquittal by the court, it cannot just go away. He simply must have the obligation to declare an appeal against the verdict that the court made as acquittal, because at any moment he was the master of the process, the master of his own indictment until the time of his verdict. It was the only reason. I don't see what other reason would be for the existence of this provision, and therefore, when we talk about it, we see that there is a completely conceptual difference. What you're saying is in full agreement with what you're saying when it comes to other provisions of this law and when you're talking about this law in principle. When it comes to all the disagreements that we have regarding this law, this provision is fully in line with the concept of the law proposed here. It's only that way to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26776	First the minister, then you after the amendment, you have 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26777	If the prosecutor representing the indictment participates in the proceedings and finds that there is not enough evidence, he should give up and give up the possibility of a damaged person taking charge. If he stays until the end of the search on his indictment, all evidence is carried out, and he gives you the final word, in which he explains the evidence and claims that his indictment was established and suggests a conviction, how do you explain that tomorrow he does not appeal the verdict. In this way, it directly takes away the right and the possibility of a damaged person to protect his rights. We don't have to argue much, you've had the opportunity to even read, and the people and my colleagues who participated in the proceedings well know that it was the greatest cry and apportionment of corruption. He says he's taken away my right, he's made a liberating verdict, he's got to be judgmental, and I can't complain like a damaged de facto. So, the prosecutor until the end of the search, if he has all the evidence and he thinks he doesn't have them, he's obliged to give up, to give up the possibility of a damaged person protecting his rights. That's why this obligation was introduced. If he felt that there was no place for a conviction, he had to do another shop, drop the indictment and give that unfortunately damaged right to try to protect his interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26778	Here you go. (Petar Jojic, from the post: Single intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26779	What exactly is this about? All this would be fine if the public prosecutor found that he had enough grounds to represent the prosecution until the end and he said - I suggest that the court convict him by law and declare him guilty. What are we going to do in that case when the D.A. says I'm leaving the court on trial. He says, "I'm leaving the court on review in relation to both the indictment and the punishment and everything else that comes next." So what do we do? If he does, that's the problem. In those cases, that's why we disagree, and we believe that there are certain things here that are not well solved and will not be applied. You can't make a public prosecutor work against his conscience, that at any cost he has to make an appeal against every verdict. I guess we should leave something to the D.A.'s office on our own, because we're talking about Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes -- the public prosecutor is an independent state body. If so, can he decide independently? He should decide that, not that, but now someone in some government is going to tell him what I'm supposed to do. No, not at all. So far in our practice, in our long, decades-old, yet crystallized and we also have court practice made and I do not see the need for this solution to be introduced and that at all costs, because this is being pressured by the prosecutor in one special way. Something should be left for the public prosecutor, as the judge is said to be tried independently, and we say in the Constitution and the public prosecutor as a state body is independent. It's the authority of the administration. What did we do? You're proposing solutions in which he should be a judge, what are we going to do? He enters the essence of the bone, takes over the judicial post, because he calls on the defendant to agree with him. Yes, he calls on them to agree on the level of punishment and proposes that the court schedule a hearing so that the judge can deliver a verdict. He's already walked in, walked into a small door in the office of the court. That's the problem. What I think and think, in any case, should have been considered by these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26780	Thank you. I think you were right, now it's been interpreted, if we except for the little things about this confusion independent and independent. In the meantime, please, Mr. Krasic, we're going back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26781	This is a member who regulates something that stands out in the title: People who have the right to appeal. Paragraph 4 speaks of duty, so we have complaints that arise as rights and complaints that arise as obligations. There are probably at least two reasons here that motivated the promoter to install attitude 4. The first, new, undefined position of the prosecutor to carry out the investigation, and the second, that unless there is an obligation to appeal against the acquittals, and there is some damage that could be a subsidiary prosecutor, unless the appeal is made, then he is practically played. In order to prevent this act, the appeal must be taken into account, so that it goes to a higher level, and the questions in this section of the second-degree court's decisions under appeal must be taken into account there. I think it's a completely wrong concept and they're taking bad examples. The D.A. is running a pre-criminal procedure, providing information and something he thinks might be evidence. Then, according to your investigation, it's a solution. The defendant can make a statement of appeal and for nothing, solved by an investigative judge. At the same time, a public prosecutor conducting an investigation can order an investigative judge to conduct some investigations. I don't want to talk about these illogicalities anymore. It's entirely possible that the defense is preparing its evidence. When does she introduce the D.A. to that evidence? In the main search. When? When the evidence comes out. What happens when the evidence is finished? The final word is given and the end of the story. Depending on the scope of the case, it is possible to complete the carrying out of the evidence and immediately proceed to the final word. In most cases, that's the way it works. That's when the public prosecutor found out that the defense has much better evidence, which completely alters the image and probability, he thinks he can't give up at that stage of the procedure, because he thinks it's breaking. And then he says, well, I represent it based on what I had. It's important to keep an eye on what the prosecutor's independence means. I don't want to open that topic. It is illogical that the appeal as a right for a party to proceedings, and both parties involved in the proceedings are equal, are foreign prosecutors who are persecuting and accused of defending themselves; or, a prosecutor who pursues and defends a person who does not defend himself. In a procedural sense, they're even. You here should treat the appeal as a procedural agent in the process. If she had the logic of the provision, the defendant is obliged to declare a complaint against the verdict that releases the defendant. That'd be funny. The defender is required to make an appeal if a conviction is reached. I know there's an institute called the right to appeal and there's still no institute duty to appeal. There is no obligation to make a complaint. I don't know, I'm this old, and I've been through so many schools, and I haven't found out about anything like that. I've indicated that there's a possibility of protecting the damaged, as a subsidiary prosecutor who didn't participate because the prosecutor was conducting it. It is the prosecutor's duty to state an appeal if a person who could be damaged as a prosecutor is writtenly asked by the prosecutor, since he is an associate of the prosecution's attorney to state the appeal. This is where you take care of the protection of the interest of the damaged. Let me just tell you what it's going to look like in practice. Prosecutors are a lazy person anyway. You know that yourself. They close one to two sides and leave the business behind. What do you think they're going to look like the complaints the D.A.'s office is about to make, and he knows that the acquittal is correct. I'll tell you right now, it's going to be one side with those generals, we're making a complaint, and we're retaining the right to give so much and so many days of reason. And then they'll put the reasons on one and a half sides, making sure they don't open a new topic. When a senior court looks at such unserious complaints, and they're, not to exaggerate, 70% of cases are non-serious, because the biggest lepers are right lawyers. The judges are miners, they have to work and they have to explain every reason etc. The D.A., he weighs one side to write. Let them sue me, I don't care, and the lawyers, you know how to do it. I don't think such a provision can stand and not fit, and it doesn't fit into this concept of the prosecutor you're giving. I don't see the reason why you didn't accept this amendment, because I don't know what that would mean is to make a complaint. You view this problem as a form problem, not a content problem. Fortunately for us, in criminal proceedings, the main problem is content and essence, and that is primarily true. You're here legalizing the circumvention of the truth. The D.A.'s got cover, and yeah, I put together three sentences, that's my appeal. Formal-legal, it's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26782	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic to Article 393. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic to Article 398. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 406 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador George Mamul. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 416 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Homan. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 457th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 534 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 537 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 544 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 550th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26783	I have proposed this amendment to Article 550, and I believe that this article should be deleted as proposed, because the ideological provision of Article 573 of the applicable Code on Criminal Procedure, and in the proposal of Article 550, should be left out unconditionally. The special law to which the 2001 Code is called was finally brought, the April 2006 Rehabilitation Act, and there is no longer any reason not to allow the recurrence of the criminal proceedings and the damages caused by the unwarranted conviction and the unfounded deprivement of freedoms that were condemned before 1 January 1954, or their successors. So, since this issue has already been regulated, I believe that this amendment should be accepted because it is an unnecessary member and burdensome law, since there is no need for it, and I said the Rehabilitation Act was passed. It covers this matter and therefore there is already a solution to the Rehabilitation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26784	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 555 of the amendment, Božidar Koprivica submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26785	Dear People's MPs, we have finally reached the last of Article 555, whose perimeter is the entry into force of the criminal code. On behalf of the SRS, he submitted an amendment just to Article 555 so that it would change and read, "This code will take effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2009. In view of the large number of institutes that you have introduced, i.e. that you are introducing in this criminal code, given the transfer of the investigation, the investigation and the trust of the investigation and the investigation to the public prosecutor, we believe that the deadline that you have proposed is short for the application of this law and that it should be extended to the very least as we have suggested, which is 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26786	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26787	You see, even the promoter has proposed to postpone the application of this law and to start applying from 1 June 2007. But one question arises: why should the provisions of Articles 107 and 110 and from 117 to 122 apply from the date of entry into force of the laws. This is a problem now. The question now arises, if we have assessed that the law should not be applied until next year, so we believe that some preparations should be made, whether legal-technical, formal and human rights and human rights, whether it will be the restructuring of the police, the prosecution, their education so that they can take over these provisions. Now this standard relating to members 107 and 110 and from 117 to 122 is quite problematic. Why do we have to apply it right now, and we're putting the rest off in a year? If the draft law of this provision is adopted by Articles 107 and 110 and 117 to 122, it will not be possible to apply from the date of entry into force of this Act. That's what our practice in recent years has shown that, although we've passed laws, it's proved in practice that they can't be applied. On the other hand, it happened that after three months, we had such a situation that the proposals came from the government to go to changes and amendments to the law. If the application of the law is delayed in the predominantly part of 1 June 2007, then these provisions should have the same fate and, in that case, I do not believe that the provisions in this law are at least time-consistent, and we believe that the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica is justified, to postpone until 1 June 2009, because for that time period, it could objectively address all previous questions for the resuscitation or application of some of the solutions offered in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26788	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26789	Mr Stojkovic, you say the law will apply from 1 June 2007, except for the provisions of Articles 107 and 110 and from 117 to 122, which will apply from the date of entry into force of this law. In article 107, he writes - Questions that must not be asked to be damaged or to a witness. Article 107 has such a priority and so much importance that it must be applied before everyone else. Four members are more important than 551 members. Article 107 says - it is forbidden to ask the damaged or witness questions relating to his full life and sexual preference, political and ideological determination, racial, national, ethnic origin, moral criteria, other purely personal and family circumstances, unless the answers to such questions are exclusively and obviously related to the need to clarify the essential features of the criminal act which is the subject of the proceedings. I think this gay lobby wrote to you and he wants to protect himself, and they're a very strong organization, holding half the culture and art in Western Europe. I see they're very strong on our political scene as well. They've managed so much to say, no one's going to harass us and ask us what our sex tendencies are like. Article 110 — The rules of hearing are particularly sensitive, damaged, and witnesses. I don't want to read this article, you know what it's about. Members 117 to 122 - Witness hearing. It's applied immediately. Then we understand why it's an emergency procedure to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26790	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26791	This is about provisions that don't require any special conditions, but to apply them immediately for court in Strasbourg because there will be violations of certain rights. As far as protected witnesses are concerned, you still have those provisions, but there is no precise proper procedure, just this one that can ask him for a search, etc. It is now far more precise, that we have a valid procedure and when it comes to hearing a protected witness. Two things we've adopted with the amendments, one that you've been making remarks before that it's best to return custody to normal detention provisions for up to six months in the investigation, and every two months to question whether there's room or not, so it doesn't take six, eight or nine years, as planned. So, if we return that provision that was before, there's no reason to delay it until 2009. One more thing we have adopted, which is that it has been found that very often, looking at these provisions on detention that have been accidentally placed, that in the event of a change in the president, for whatever reason, the search begins again. This way, only that provision of this amendment predicts that if the president changes, he doesn't have to repeat the whole procedure, he can read it, so he can continue, because why would someone lie in custody for two years again while this one re-provides formal evidence. That was the reason, and by my estimate, a large number of provisions are already being applied. You know, what the police are hearing, very often and now the prosecutor is present, and when a record is signed in the presence of prosecutors and defenders, then it's a valid document, and now we've only made it a little stronger with tone recording and visual and phonic recording.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-16-0.u26792	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Member of the 555th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow we continue the regular session at 10.00 hours by searching the details of the 3rd item of the agenda, I can't announce, just to check, forgive, for your duties, so 3, 4, and we'll try to maybe if we finish, move to the 5th point of the agenda, simply schedule your time. Thank you for your responsibility. Good-bye and good-bye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all a good day. We continue the work of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find there are 87 MPs present and there are conditions for the start of the working day. The only one who has sent a notice of prevention to attend is MP Dusan Proroković We continue to work on the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors (separation)
