ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-08-0.u29556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 193 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that no one has been prevented from attending the session. Since it's obvious we don't have enough MPs to determine the agenda, I'm postponing the session tomorrow at 11.30 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 197 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that no one has been prevented from attending the session. Before we go to the agenda, I want to read this to you. Due to the great controversy in the public and the announced resignations of the minister, it is my duty to declare this: the resignations of ministers in the formal legal sense do not exist in the assembly procedure. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. On the basis of Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda. He did not vote 21 for 123, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
