ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27521	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee will be held in a small hall immediately and I ask the members to move to a small hall. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Vojkan Tomic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on textbooks and other teaching agents (principles )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27522	You've received a bill from the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 36 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds; five MPs "For European Serbia" – 6 minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs – five minutes under Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic, minister of education and sports, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has Minister Slobodan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27523	It's short notice, because it's a short change. It is, above all, technical and related to the rules in force in our country regarding privatisation and the establishment of public enterprises. So, the Institute for textbooks and teaching means should, by this change, be equal to other public enterprises, and create conditions for its privatisation, which I suppose will take place in some subsequent period of a year, two, when the time comes, as well as other public enterprises. It is about the harmonisation of the existing Law with the Law on Privatisation, because the laws that have been passed in this area in the meantime have passed this existing Law on textbooks. Then, in that case, we would, of course, create conditions for you to find a new law on textbooks here, which is adapted to new circumstances, new times, competition, market, the fact that there is now only one so-called "in Serbia" for several years now. The state publisher, as it was a few decades ago, but there are six other small privates who are young in the business, there are only a few years, which are not such a large format and who are fighting and progressing from year to year on. That law also seems important to me, because in the last two years, as far as I'm doing this job, we've had a good atmosphere, good co-operation, progress and, according to all the expert estimates, the greatest improvement in the quality of textbooks we had last year. You could see that in the media, for the first time, that there was no traffic ahead of September 1st in front of the bookstore, because we made one way of working; these six private publishers and the textbooks' office, in the absence of regulations that follow this moment, that they meet in the office of the Minister of Education, to make common arrangements, to make common deadlines, to make them all fair in those deadlines, publishers in time to hand over manuscripts and to get approvals from the ministry's competent services in the day and hour. So it was done, they had enough time to print their textbooks, and the only condition I had, which I set for them, was to establish a custom around August 15th, now it's a small tradition, that on August 15th, about, we hold a joint press conference in the government and tell parents, children, teachers, that all the textbooks in the entire circulation are printed and that there will be no deficit, there will be no shortages and all the great traditional crowds in front of the bookstores, chasing parents to get books in time for their children. And we managed to do that, and it's the greatest liquid of our work, but so it doesn't all belong to the good will of ministers, publishers, etc. But it's better to have the law, so by law and with goodwill and with, God forbid, everyone has to honor their deadlines. This amendment and addition of this existing Law allows two things: – that this public company is equal to the others and that the privatisation process begins, that is the first thing, – that is the introduction to the new, modern, law on textbooks, which, for your information, were written by publishers, that is another thing. In that same office they debated, it took some time, then there was a public debate, but all those who were interested, who made a piece of bread in the business, they sat in the minister's office in the most democratic way and crossed all the arguments, exchanged all the experiences and agreed to all the provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27524	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Donka Banovic, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27525	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, today we are discussing amendments to the Law on textbooks and teaching tools, which has been in force since 1993. The law regulates issues relating to the preparation, approval, issue and use of textbooks and other teaching tools. The law also prescribes the obligation to monitor and evaluate them during use in educational-experienced work. When the law was passed, it also became the founding act of a public enterprise, which today is still called the Institute for textbooks and teaching tools. So far, the current law has not been in line with certain other laws, which have differently arranged the position of all public enterprises in Serbia. In fact, the position of public enterprises is governed by a special law, the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. In addition, the law stipulates that a public enterprise is set up by the Republic of Serbia and that the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia are being exercised by the government. Therefore, the founding act of a public enterprise cannot be some law, but it is the government's decision. Also, according to the provisions of the Privatisation Act, the founding act of a public undertaking provides for the percentage amount of government capital to be sold in the privatisation process. In 1993, the Law on textbooks states that the JP Institute of Teachers and Educations cannot be organised as a shareholder or a limited liability company. In fact, this means that this public enterprise is excluded at this point from any possibility of privatisation. It was therefore necessary to adopt a new founding act in a manner prescribed by the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest. This ensures the equivalence of the position of the Institute, as well as the possibility of conducting the privatisation process. The proposed changes and additions provide continuity in the performance, as it is proposed that rights, obligations, resources, employees and documentation of the public enterprise be taken over by a public company that will soon be called the JP Institute for textbooks. The public company was established by the government's decision of 25 May this year. Otherwise, this law enters into force on 1 September, which is in line with the date of entry into force of the new founding act. The basic reason for the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements stems from the intention and the effort to introduce elements of the competition system and competition in the fields of publishing of textbooks, but certainly to the extent possible, because of the specific nature and importance of the work itself, whose implementation, under a special regime and with the provision of continuity, is done to satisfy the general interest in an extremely important social area. The DSS will support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27526	The word is from Mr Petronijevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27527	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and teaching means, which is set before us, has only one objective, which is to implement those amendments to the Law on textbooks and teaching means that will allow the Institute for textbooks and teaching means to become a public enterprise, in accordance with the Law on Public Enterprises, which has been adopted, which allow the privatisation of that company to be carried out. If we look at it from that angle, then it's a retail technical law, because the Law on Public Enterprises has been passed, applies to all public enterprises, and therefore to the Law on textbooks and teaching means. But it's not just technical law. I think the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on textbooks and teaching means closes one thing and opens several questions. I'd like to warn you of these few open questions. As far as closing one issue is concerned, the issue is closed by becoming a public enterprise, not by law as a founding act, but by becoming a public enterprise by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a question in that part. It's slow next. Before I say that there is another small change here, and that is that changes and additions of the Law have been made that the Institute prepares and publishes textbooks and preschools, which has not been the case until now, not just for primary and secondary schools. But to return to the essence of this law. So, if we said so, and so it is, that the position of public enterprises is governed by the Law on Public Enterprises, and it should function, as the Proposer here says, on an equal basis. Mr. Minister, given that the founding act of a public enterprise, and if, in this respect, we have the objective of these changes in the privatisation of the Institute, determines the percentage amount of government capital to be sold in the privatisation process, the first question for the minister is: what is the percentage of government capital foreseen for privatisation? This is why I ask for the reason that during the debate on changes and additions to the SPS Law, it has been accepted that in all public enterprises, 30% of capital must be transferred without compensation, from that to 15% of employees in public enterprises, and that the state must assess the importance of these enterprises, in which way to protect the general interest through this, through the determination of percentage, in which way the capital can be sold. So the question for the minister is - what percentage of state capital will be in the privatisation process? What I've been talking about so far has been the issue of amending the law relating to the Bureau, but we're changing a law just because of the transformation of the Bureau. I ask the following question, given the very great need, why wasn't it done by the new Law on textbooks and teaching tools? I ask this question for reasons why the law, the new one, would certainly see more clearly how the state will protect the general interest when it comes to the preparation and publishing of textbooks. I remind you, it's no ordinary slave. The textbook is a basic teaching tool for students. The state can't care what the goods are, what the textbook is, and what, above all, the quality of the textbooks. And about that, why do I think there was supposed to be a law on textbooks and teaching? When you look at these changes and you look at the part of the law that stays, there are a lot of vague questions left, not to say a little confusion. Namely, Article 30 of the current Law on textbooks and teaching means, the Institute is established to prepare and publish textbooks. That's his hard work. I'm interested in whether by the founding act the government will determine what is the activity of this Office that will be privatized? Will it be a basic activity for him, whether it be a heavy activity for him, and these are not shades and are not for neglect, or will they be a company that will deal with all others, well, and the publishing of textbooks? So far, according to the Law on textbooks and teaching means, there has been a very precise procedure for how to obtain manuscripts for the textbook, which ultimately is approved by the minister. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That everyone is handing over manuscripts, that there is a commission to review manuscripts, which is being educated by the Program Council of the Department of Teachers and Teachers, as a professional body. So when he adopts it, he proposes it to the minister for approval and use. Why did I tell you this? Because amendments and additions to this law on textbooks and teaching tools are abolished by the Programme Council as an expert body of the Institute. Is that good, was it not a process, or was it not a way to provide even better quality textbooks? Or, if so, how to apply these previous provisions that speak about the procedure of how to prepare the manuscript, or textbook, before approval. So, the part that remains in the Law says that the Program Council will propose to the Minister for approval, after considering the commission, and the part that talks about amendments and additions to the Law which transforms the Institute for the Promotion of Education into a public enterprise, but under the new law, where the Programme Council is abolished. What kind of professional body, then, I'm talking about the Institute as a public enterprise, I'm not talking about all those other institutions that deal with this issue, and they're also the reason that a new law on textbooks and teaching means needs to be passed. For example, the Law on Fundamentals of the Education and Education System sets out the standards of the textbooks' qualifications, and then the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, one professional body, or its Centre for the Development of Programs and textbooks, performs professional tasks relating to the quality and procedure of approving textbooks. And then, in Article 94. The Institute on Fundamentals of Education and Education The National Educational Council proposes to the Minister to approve textbooks, though, in accordance with special law. Now, that's the special law. And I think it was necessary to pass a law on textbooks and teaching tools, to regulate that whole matter in one way. And this could have been regulated, because this provision, which stands in the first member of the amendment and addition of the Law, that for the preparation and issue of textbooks and other educational means for preschool, primary and secondary school, is an activity of general interest carried out by the Public Business of the Bureau of textbooks, and it will surely have to remain in that law. Therefore, this law would also regulate the issues of preparation, publishing, approval and use of textbooks, quality monitoring, etc., and within the framework of this and the Institute. These are the open questions that I announced at the beginning of my presentation. I think it's necessary, that it's necessary to do it as soon as possible, if it's not already done, do it. I ask the Minister to answer these questions publicly, which I have asked for this speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27528	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) It informs you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups, so that we can move on to debate. The first came from MP Milan Veselinovic, SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a brief statement from the Minister of Education, who runs away somewhere, probably has a shortcut to work, if he won't go to the opening of the World Cup. There is a big dilemma here about this bill, although the minister does not interfere with his business. He also admitted that the publishers were making this law, not him. So, he picked up five-six private publishers, e, now, whether he was the director of the Department for Publishing of Books, Ljušić, I don't know, and probably did, as soon as he was a representative of the ruling coalition and, behold, they agreed to make one such law, or a proposal to supplement and amend this Act. What's this about? The Institute for textbooks and teaching funds has been a public company so far, which was defined by law and precisely envisaged status since 1993. In fact, it's a very important house for our society and our country. That house is closely tied to the Ministry of Education. I've had a chance to be a member of the Supervisory Board for three years, and I've been very familiar with the work done by this Bureau, but I've also learned many illegal things that are being done there. In fact, big money is being allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the work of this public enterprise, not to mention its importance and the prominent experts found in the Institute. You know there's a bigger fight out there who's going to be the director of the school's publishing textbooks than, even, to be minister of education. That's a logical question. What's this about? In fact, I'm saying, it's about the big money coming in and going through the books department streams. Just printing the tests for the final eighth grade exams and doing all these works cost about a million marks at the time, if you can figure out who's gonna take that job. This job is important, and there are great predators. With this law, the Serbian government wants to put the Public Enterprise of the Institute of Teachers and Teachers under its paws, in fact they want to directly bind them to the government of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Education, and that they have a decisive word on what will be the further status of the Public Enterprise of the Institute of Teachers and Teachers. From this proposed law, we immediately see what this is all about. By proposed law, this and the best lawyer will not understand without talking about an ordinary citizen. This law is a matter of speed, it's done without some general connection and systematic work, so if you look at these amendments to the law, what's deleted in the law, and then what's left in the previous law, you'll see that between those parts of the law, and the bill, there's no connection. It's just, it's like something's skipped. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and teaching means: "Preparing and issuing textbooks and other teaching tools for pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools is an activity of general interest carried out by the Public Company of the Institute of textbooks (hereinafter referred to as the Institute)". I have to say that we now have a dozen publishing houses, which are prominent publishing houses, which are private, I don't know exactly what their status is right now, but which were competitors to the school for publishing textbooks. In this case, regardless of what the minister says they have agreed, which I do not believe, a monopoly is given to the Bureau for the publishing of textbooks. Now he will create a whole publishing policy for the publishing of textbooks and teaching tools. This is shown in Article 1(2). After Article 2, Article 1a is added, between the points of view it is said that we want to place the office's status on an equal footing as any other public enterprise. In the previous Law you have a member of the 33rd where it is said – The Institute cannot be organised as a company or a company with limited responsibility. So it was immediately said by that law, with limited responsibility. Then the Office's organs go, etc. In this case, we don't know what the current status of the school of publishing textbooks is, we don't know how much action there is, how many actions these workers have, what their status is, what's going to happen to their current status that they've had. It's not even meant for this law at all. This looks like an abduction to me. Simply, without any explanation, the Serbian government has been passing amendments to the law that has been taking away that property, which has been built there for years. There is no explanation at all for the current status of this public enterprise. We didn't get that kind of explanation, and we didn't even get a chance to hear the opinion of these people from the Management Board of the Public Enterprise of the Institute for the Publishing of Teachers and Teachers. Article 4 states that the rights, obligations, resources, documentation and objects of the Public Company of the Institute for Teachers and Educations are assumed by the Public Undertaking of the Bookshop, established by the Government Decision of 25 May 2006, in the manner set out in that Decision. So, on the day of registration of the company, it ceases to exist for the Public Business of the Bookshop and Educational Means. This confirms that he's taking over the entire property, related to employees, etc. Legally speaking, we believe that this is a flagrant violation of the law of the so far state of the Public Enterprise of the Institute of textbooks and teaching resources. There's been a lot of trouble here. Since the arrival of Minister Vuksanovic, problems have just arisen. Where do these problems come from? Get textbooks for the first grade of elementary school, you'll see there, especially in the national mixed environments, so you can order more publishers than the textbooks. One textbook teaches Ichakawa, one of the Ekvahs, one of the Ekvahs. That's what the minister approved. In fact, the minister does not interfere with his work, but is done by the people who met there, not to enter, representatives of Hungarians, Muslims, Albanians and others. It's simple, it's made of multiple publishers of several kinds of textbooks for the same subject, for the same class. These are the problems made by Minister Vuksanovic since he arrived. You can see for yourself in elementary school, ever since the minister arrived, they've started printing textbooks without control. By abolishing this Programme Commission, mentioned by a colleague of the previous speaker, who gave an opinion on the publisher's handwriting, a precedent was created. It is true that the Law on the Foundations of Education and Education of Primary and Secondary Schools provides, in a way, for the programme to be carried out by certain centres, against which we were Serbian radicals, but this programme committee at the Department of Publishing of textbooks played a major role and importance. It was largely composed of people who could contribute as much as they could to the extent that these were not the kind of failures that I listed for the publishing of basic school textbooks; in one class of third grade, they learn by these textbooks, and in the second class they learn by other textbooks, depending on what national definition is there and depending on what money is involved when they order textbooks for children. I think that this kind of amendment and the addition of the law is unnecessary, this is unclear, unconnected, represents one of the abductions of this public enterprise. It looks like a long time ago, and I think this law should be withdrawn and not given in this form, because it will not contribute to anything better, but it will simply create even greater chaos and vengeance in the field of education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27530	Thank you. The word is Velimir Simonovic, followed by the MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27531	Ladies and gentlemen, I only have a few notes. First of all, about the programme board or the commission, it was within the Bureau, what a colleague from the SPS said, in my opinion, it is good that there is no programme advice in the company itself on textbooks, but on the contrary, that it is the commissions that are outside the company, which can be in the National Education Council, in this development centre, that there are commissions that will propose manuscripts for the printing of textbooks, and not in the publishing office itself. Secondly, I don't think there's any concern that the Bureau will be privileged when it comes to publishing textbooks. As soon as the market is mentioned, and as soon as the publishers enter, which textbooks will be printed? That textbook that's the best one that's offered by some publisher. There will be competition, the commission will choose those textbooks and whoever is elected, any publisher, will be printed. Otherwise, I'm in favor of not being many textbooks for the same subjects, one, possibly two. It is understood that there must be a recommendation from the Minister of Education and approval to be used as a textbook for a given class and a specific subject. If another one is written, teachers can recommend it to students as a lecture, but students need to know that one textbook, at most two, is the one that is required, which he should obtain and from whom he should learn. According to mood, possibilities, etc. They can buy other textbooks or literature, those who are curious, who want to expand their knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27532	Thank you. The Messenger of the people is Radish Ilic, then the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the main objective of this bill is the possibility of establishing a public firm of the Bookshop Office as a stockholder society. In the light of this law, this is stated by calling for the harmonisation of previously adopted legal rules relating to public undertakings. In simple language, this bill paves the way for the possible privatisation of this very important company, since it is about the Bookshop. One of the most sensitive issues when it comes to education are textbooks, or their preparation and approval for use. The effect that can result from the abuse of rights, possibly later perhaps the majority owner, can be very negative. It is, of course, a financial moment, since it is in some way a monopoly compared to other publishing houses. What the Ministry of Education and Sports should be dealing with is the very teaching program that our young generations are slowly, but certainly, indoctrination and in some way giving birth to their people. It is enough to take textbooks for first or second grade and see what children in Serbia learn. If these children are not told at school at that age who they are, what they are and what people they belong to, what they will be when they are later on the street, on the Internet, on television, met with propaganda of various religious sects, and now we have made it possible by adopting a law and what will happen when they are hit by suspicious NGOs, foreign propaganda programs, etc. Education reforms are now aimed at breaking the education system in Serbia and drowning in the collage of a well-known "new age". Education is just one of the important priorities of the mass so-called a new age, which must be placed under their control in order to reach its goal faster through the indoctrination of those who are staging. It is the true essence of all education reforms. The textbooks' office is just one link in the organised chain and the possible privatisation of this company will only strengthen the positions of those who have infiltrated Serbia's education system as a virus. Many of the methodologies that are applied, especially in basic education, are extremely painful and cause anxiety and reluctance in children to a specific subject. Now something new is being invented, what is simple and easily complicated so that it becomes a real nightmare for our children. The so-called pedagogical psychological reform, or as it's short termed "peps", which in some way paints the country from where this methodology comes from, stupids our children, in the right language. Take a look at the math case for second grade primary school. So many unnecessary little things that are too high, that bother and confuse children, because a child to calculate what 85 minus 15 has to write three rows of computer operations. The world around us is so scarce that teachers are forced to dictate basic concepts to children, because children in these books can only look at images. As far as national history is concerned, children learn more about our athletes than well-known Serbs from Serbian national history. There is no exception in the sea of terrible anti-Serb brochures to the one used as a textbook at the Faculty of Political Sciences for the first and second year of studies, called "Politicals", whose funding fell to the burden of the US Embassy in Belgrade. So the reference textbook was written by Andrew Haywood and on page 219 the gentleman said – and as the Nazis did and the Bosnian Serbs realized that one sure way to create a single national state programme of ethnic cleansing. It's a textbook used in the middle of Serbia. This is what the Witness wrote about, recently on 30 May 2006, by a professor, even, at Sarajevo University, very interesting, Professor Emil Vlajki, otherwise visiting professor at Yale University, Montreal and Ottawa. Such examples are certainly many in Serbia, and no one is unfortunately doing anything. What confuses both students and parents, educators, is a large number of publishing houses that print textbooks that are, in some ways, different. Then the teacher defines himself as a publisher making a problem, first of all, to the parents who buy these textbooks. It happens that teachers are asking students for a booklet that isn't printed with one publisher. I personally had such a situation that, as far as the first-class bookie was concerned, I literally found every next bookie with another publisher, so I had to buy six sets of six publishers. It's just one of the little problems parents face. And therefore, in many textbooks in many publishers, textbooks pass through which they carry extremely negative tendencies. As for the Ministry of Education, I am also sorry that the minister is not here right now, since I come from the Municipality of Parachin, perhaps in some way thanks to the Ministry of Education today three teachers from the village school in the village of Stryza are in front of the judge for violations, and the occasion was the school glory of St. Sava, which was described in the paper thanks to the press conference of the Democratic Party. They stated that the radicals, who were invited by a man who celebrated school glory, came to fame with flags, with pictures of Vojislav Seselj, with badges, that they gave flammable speeches in front of the students, and because of such a statement made by the Educational Inspector in the Municipality of Paracin, wrote a faster-better application to the judge for violations for these three teachers. Fortunately there was local television, she recorded the whole event, and it turned out that none of the radicals had flags, nor was he giving speeches, nor was he with badges. At the very least, our sin is that, in the room where children were celebrated, we shared books, 70 school books, and those books, "Little Prince", "Hidi", "Cicha Tomina Hull", literally lectures, and when they were later seen what they were doing, they were already gone, but in some ways one embarrassment fell to the Ministry of Education, and sometimes you should have responded to what the so-called Director of the National Office Dragan Gilas did. He's calling the Pomorava County again. Two months ago, in Despotovac Municipality, with his suite, he visited an elementary school in the village, I think his name is Tručevac, Lomnica, and because of him she had to be interrupted. The children had to give him a performance, and they gave a speech in front of underage children and the entire event was attended by the entire municipal board of the Democratic Party of Despotovac. The teachers who organized that welcome did not lack the hair of the head, but where the Serbian radicals go, and we are not guilty of being recognized by the people on the streets, so teachers are kind of thrown out of that torture, first of all by the Democratic Party in the Paracino Municipality, and the whole thing has caused negative connotations about all of this. Of course, these are all false, but you can see what methods the Democratic Party is serving, not only in Paracino, but literally in all the places in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27534	Milica Vojic-Markovic answered the words. I'm asking Veronica Radeta, she should be getting a word from another MP's group right now, and I've already called you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27535	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank my colleague who gave me the place to speak before her. Given that there have been many comments that are in place when someone who is a parent and who has a child at school, comments that have been made by people who are engaged in education, means, professionally, I can understand these comments, but I don't think they're in the right place, since we're talking about something completely different, we're talking about a draft law concerning the technical changes to this part of the Law on textbooks and teaching. That is why I will begin my presentation by the Law on textbooks and teaching tools, which was adopted in 1993 and which addresses issues relating to preparation, approval, publishing and use of textbooks and teaching tools in primary and secondary schools. The law further regulates their monitoring and evaluation in the entire educational work and the basis for publishing textbooks at higher schools and universities. The 1993 law was simultaneously the founding act of the Public Enterprise of the Bookshops and Educational Resources Institute. Meanwhile, legislation has been passed that regulates the position of public enterprises and how public business founders' rights are exercised, as well as the conditions and method of privatising capital in public enterprises with the majority participation of state capital that carry out the activity of general interest. The Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest, I am talking about laws, amendments from 2002 and 2005, which prescribe that public enterprises establish the Republic of Serbia, that the founding law has a Republic of Serbia and that it exercises the government. The privatisation law stipulates that the founding act of a public enterprise determines the percentage amount of state capital to be sold during privatisation. Therefore, this law is the Public Enterprise of the Institute for textbooks and teaching resources excluded from possible privatisation. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and teaching means, which is necessary in front of us, because it puts the Public Enterprise of the Educational and Educational Office in a level playing field with other public enterprises and when it comes to the market, when it comes to competition, it is something that we should not discuss. I think good things can only be found where there's competition, and the Department of Teachers and Education has so far shown that he can really do his job. I don't see that we should be afraid of that. When we talk about this part of the textbooks, what's in the textbooks, we can discuss it somewhere else. It's simply not the subject of this law. Also, I would like to break the illusion as someone who comes from education and as someone who has participated in reform on many occasions, because for 20 years I have worked in education and can say one thing, there is no need to be afraid that teachers use textbooks, or to take from the mass textbooks they like, simply, I'm talking about our teachers being educated, about having a lot of experience and knowing that they recognize what students need. On the other hand, there are parts of institutions dealing with what programmes should contain, so they won't be left to the case. So it will not be left to good will or bad will what our children will learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27536	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27537	We are talking about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and other teaching means and in an explanation – Reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, says the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Minister Vuksanovic on behalf of that government: "In accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure in order to provide appropriate conditions for the protection of general interest in the exercise of the work of publishing textbooks for pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools, which is found to be a work of general interest." When you see this part of the argument, or when you hear it, then anyone who hears this would think that in this area is a complete anarchy and chaos, that we don't have a law that regulates this and that for the first time Minister Vuksanovic thought it would be good to regulate this by law. I ask him – what about the protection of general interest so far, if we now have to return-to-date pass this law on amendments and additions to the law?- I'm sorry. Of course, the minister here has made a few sentences, he thinks he's very smart so he can tell us about it and get out of this room, because he doesn't care about what this assembly is doing, or what's going on in the field of education, he's got a lot of work to do – you know that lately he's been playing the government's spokesman when he explained that the government's priority is to arrest Ratko Mladic and mainly to do this job, instead of dealing with the job that's headed by the Ministry of Education and Sports. Minister Vuksanovic is such a attitude towards this area shows that from the very beginning and therefore it is no wonder that every second or third day in the paper we read that someone is seeking the resignation of Minister Vuksanovic. He would be better off dealing with those affairs that are truly of interest to both students and parents and to Serbia as a state, as a society. What did Vuksanovic say here? The reason why it adopts, or proposes, this law, says it should be equated with the others and the privatisation process started, so that this public enterprise is equated with other public enterprises and that the privatisation process begins. That's certainly the basic reason, not this first part, but the second one for privatisation. Imagine a sentence, he says – this law is an introduction to the adoption of a new comprehensive entire law. For the first time I've heard, I've been a lawyer for 30 years, and for the first time I've heard there's a law being passed that should serve as an introduction to some new law. So, Minister Vuksanovic, in absentia, MPs, Serbian citizens are not stupid and stop playing you and other government members and insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. The minister didn't even say anything concrete about this law, because there's nothing to say about this. The minister was supposed to appear here, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a new law, with a new text of law, to present it to the National Assembly and then to do this job seriously. To seriously discuss and discuss this law, not to let the ministers, who can think of walking through the National Assembly, playing with the MPs and insulting this Parliament's dignity by passing some laws with two members. Of course, I understand that once the amendments to the law must have two members, but in this case there was no need, but there was a need for a serious new law, which the MPs here would discuss. So, the minister said that this bill was made, sitting, I guess, in his cabinet, I just don't know if he was there, he didn't say, representatives of all publishers. What do publishers have to do with writing the text of the law? I understand that when the bill appears, everyone interested can comment but participate in the work? I guess the Ministry of Education has enough expert personnel and I guess the minister is some sort of expert, so at least it's being introduced, that they could have done it themselves, if not the whole law, then at least four members of the bill we're talking about today. Of course, the minister doesn't do his job, said his colleague Veselinovic here, doesn't interfere with his job, and that's true. I did not read in the press today the minister's comment on the poisoning of these students at the Petrus Hotel in Paracina, students of the Chemical-Tech School, of course, I don't think the minister can be directly responsible because the graduates at a school poisoned themselves, but that the minister doesn't answer and say anything on the subject, it's just not likely. There's still a lot of bad things going on on the field trips, ugly things, the Ministry of Education doesn't react, and there's still a field trip, although the law says no transport at night can be done, transport takes place at night. If the students come to the destination at one hour or two o'clock, it's probably also a night drive. Still students take one bus, which breaks down within a mile of school. For nothing, laws are passed when no one thinks that what is passed in this House or that it follows the application of some law. Every day we read about the beatings of minors in primary schools, high schools, with severe injuries. The minister doesn't react, the Ministry doesn't react, they ask the parents to collect money, that the parents pay some guards. So, of all the talk by Minister Vuksanovic that he and his ministry will take care of the position of students, the safety of students, of the deal with this minister has nothing to do with it. But that's why he signed the International School Status Agreement with Polt yesterday, which otherwise became part of the educational system in Serbia. It is an American school, and in Serbia there are both Russian and German and French schools. It is, indeed, interesting that the minister says why he defined the first agreement to end right with Polt and the American school, why he did not define it to be a Russian school, or is again the government's relationship to different partners in the world. Someone here said that these amendments to the law were actually technical changes, and then, too, a colleague well noticed that there could be no technical change to something that essentially changes and introduces a complete newspaper, which is the work of publishing textbooks for preschool institutions. I really don't know if we have conditions, material conditions, objective conditions. We also said that when it comes to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, whether we have conditions and what our textbooks for preschool institutions will be, when we do not have enough preschool institutions in cities, when in suburban villages or in villages there is no meaning in preschool institutions, and the law obliges parents to refer children to preschool institutions. Now they're going to have to buy textbooks, and if someone's going to use them, that's irrelevant. It's just that you're not doing things logically, you're just meeting the obligations of some of them that you're being ordered to do. I'm surprised that it doesn't appear here that some directive from the West is at stake, but of course it can't improve the status of students, nor the status of teachers, at all education in Serbia. Says Minister Vuksanovic that he has achieved great success, because now there are before the school year all the textbooks in the bookstores can be bought. And now there are two problems: the first problem is how much the Government of Serbia has made that everyone can really buy textbooks, because, unfortunately, many parents can't buy these textbooks to their children; on the other hand, textbooks are really quite expensive, not to say very expensive, and maybe the third, even most important problem that the minister hasn't mentioned is that the existence of textbooks doesn't mean that students need textbooks, because they can't buy them until the school year starts, because only when the school year starts that every teacher says – well, you have to buy this textbook, well, either it's his textbook or his son-in-law textbook, brother-in-law, father-in-law doesn't matter. So the textbooks make a lot of money, and it's at the expense of the parents and the harm of the students. The minister's story that there are textbooks absolutely means nothing. I must also remind the public that Minister Vuksanovic started his career. It is, in his famous consent to introduce a Bosnian Bucharest into the Rusk area, and I think that it will indeed remain registered with the darkest letters in the history of education in Serbia, but, behold, a few months later, we realized that negotiations were held back then and that he was the one who took the first step, and the outcome is that he is now supported by the creators of the Bucharest, here in this assembly hall. History textbooks for seventh, eighth grade, eight-year-old schools and high school, ladies and gentlemen and Serbian citizens, are being written in Bologna. Here Radisa Ilic spoke about some details of what children in Serbia are learning and how they don't really learn real history. But I, when we talked about the laws both basic and secondary and high education, said that happiness is, however, that in Serbia there is a large number of teachers and teachers, who teach primarily Serbian language and history, who have not succumbed to the denunciation led by the government of the Republic of Serbia from the government of Zoran Djindjic, through the government of Zoran Zivkovic and today Vojislav Kostunica, and that, regardless of all these recommendations, they teach children true history, which is indeed Serbian history, or what is real history. How do the minister and his followers fight against such teachers? In schools some NGOs, which are represented as trade unions, are organisations, that is, organised by this Tadic's "yellow" company, go to schools, recruit teachers and teachers, give them a hundred euros to join these organisations, and promise them jobs for spouses, for children, etc. And then in those lines they prepare future directors, right there in those local self-governments where they can influence it. This is done extensively in the territory of Zemun and throughout Belgrade and in the territory of all Serbia. And teachers respond, parents react, Vuksanovic gets... I know he's got at least a dozen complaints and letters with this data, he doesn't care, he's not responding, he's the only one who's continued to dedicate Serbia through education, because it's the best thing he's done since preschool institutions. He is not interested in real problems, as he is not interested in the material position of educational workers. He promised someone a really miserable salary increase, which those people didn't get, they still don't get regular salaries, they're always ending up somewhere. All ministers something, let's at least if they come out and say that, I don't know, this Stojkovic will raise salaries in the area of the judiciary, of course there's nothing of it either, but at least he says he will, that Tomica Milosavljevic says he will raise salaries in health, and there's nothing of it, but at least he says. Vuksanovic, as Veselinovic said, does not interfere in his business. He neither promises nor cares, nor fights for a better status of educators. He's the only one who can threaten that he's willing to quit. If that's why he was appointed minister, then it's a great honor for those who pushed the green button to pick him! Does the minister and ministry take care of schools and children in Kosovo and Metohija in any way? Of course not. The SRS, our parliamentary group had several actions in Kosovo and Metohija. We gave all the schools computers, gave them to the school library books. Of course, we will continue to work on helping them both materially and, more importantly, to achieve some kind of communication, that these children and those parents living in Kosovo and Metohija are aware and that they know that they are in Serbia, that they belong to Serbia and that there is at least one party in Serbia, which is the SRS, which takes care of them. Of course, for the Serbian government, they are obviously removed from the sphere of interest. The minister did not answer, I asked him in time, he was asked by many parents, many teachers, the paper was full of writings about those famous questionnaires in which all possible and impossible data were to be entered for children, so his children were told that they had to bring them in, say, on Friday, on Monday. What are the kids gonna do, cry at home, have to bring, say the teacher, and no talking. When they collected all these questionnaires, then the Ministry of Sports said, about 10 days later, that they didn't even have to fill in all the chapters in the questionnaire, but just a name, a last name, etc. So the question remains, and I remind the public, what are these questionnaires used or abused for, or for what will they be abused when those children grow up? At one of the sessions Tomislav Nikolic asked a question and we did not get an answer from the minister – who allowed and who distributed the questionnaires to students by Kragujevac, where students in Kragujevac and villages around Kragujevac were supposed to answer, whether they were using English in their home and in their family, so some stupid and pointless questions were in the questionnaire. So, at any moment you're going through something from the government and the Ministry, you're going through schools, preschool institutions, the influence of NGOs, the direct influence of these "yellow" thieves. Of course, the minister is with them in very good relations, so he doesn't mind it, and obviously he doesn't mind Kostunica, since they're already negotiating a future coalition. I repeat again, the saddest and scariest part of this whole story is these textbooks through which students should read, learn and learn, answer for an assessment, that they are such that they aim to completely erase everything that is Serbian in history textbooks. I repeat that these textbooks are being written in Bologna, so I don't know what we need this law for. I don't know what textbooks this office's gonna publish. Happiness is also for those children who are the founders, who will be able to read more serious books very quickly, it is also good luck for the state of Serbia that there is a large edition of the SRS, so far published 64 books by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, which describe Serbian history in detail, and it is also more recent. More and more, thank God, citizens in Serbia, high school students who buy these books, who read these books, and very soon those who are now the founding fathers, who are learning Bologna history, will move on to this real history and true education from the books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27538	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the RADIFFUSION Law You have received a bill submitted by the MPs: Milos Aligrudić, President of the DSS Group of MPs; Tomislav Nikolic, Chairman of the SRS Group; Milojub Albianic, Chairman of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group; Miroslav Markicevic, Deputy Chairman of the NS Group and Independent MPs 9+9 and Ivica Dacic, chairman of the SPS parliamentary group. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since until the opening of a principled search, and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, parliamentary groups have not submitted any applications for discussion, I conclude the search in principle. Before the search is concluded, I'm asking if anyone else who hasn't used their right to the Rules of Procedure wants a word. No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Before we move to agenda five, I'm taking a five-minute break to get a proposing representative here. [[After a break.]] Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the speaker's word, Zoran M. Balinovac, the director of the Republic Secretariat of Law? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27539	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law that is before you is a law which could in some way be called a law of law, a law laid down in the Law on Civil Servants, and hence, for its full understanding and understanding of the solution that the law contains necessary good knowledge of the official system. Also, the assumption of understanding the essence of the law is also a series of regulations adopted by the Government, which are being discussed by the Civil Service Act. I will speak only briefly, the subject of the law and the arrangement of salaries of civil servants and deputies in all state bodies, therefore, starting with the Government, ministries, special organisations, through the National Assembly, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Service of the National Assembly, the Office of the Constitutional Court. It is a system of uniform work relationship editing, or one of the most important aspects of working relationships. The salary we're talking about consists of basic salary and salary supplements. The basic salary of the civil servant and of the substitute is a product obtained by multiplying the base and coefficient, the pay allowance follows the specific circumstances relating to a situation where the employee is in a situation. The only mandatory supplement on the salary is the extra time spent in a work relationship, or what we call the past work today. The salaries of officials are arranged according to the principle of paying groups and paying classes. As is known under the Civil Service Act, all civil servants are classified and divided into eight jobs where they can work. Any job where the perpetrators, civil servants can work, is then divided into eight paying classes. That, then, when it comes to those executing state officials. As far as the situation is concerned, those jobs with special powers and responsibilities represent five further groups. Therefore, the whole concept consists of the setting up of 13 pay groups, eight for execution jobs and five for positions within which, when it comes to enforcement jobs, payment classes that have eight. The purpose of the pay grade is to enable so-called. the horizontal progress of the civil servant. The horizontal progress of a civil servant is an opportunity for his salary to be increased even though he is in the same job. Therefore, the salary is increased according to the results of the work, without making more progress in the workplace. That is, therefore, the purpose of the horizontal advancement that this law regulates in detail. In addition to the pay system, I can only say that, when it comes to coefficients, strict algebraic and logical relations between all coefficients, whether they concern the undersigned, were government officials working in executive jobs, any civil servants working in the position. As soon as that happens, extras on the salary are arranged. There are six of them under this law, unlike the law so far that has five, and there are particularly important two that are brand new in our legal order. This is a preparation for preparedness and additional burden on work. I'll talk about them, because I say, they represent one newspaper. The preparation allowance is an allowance paid by a civil servant because a civil servant is forced to be prepared for a while if there is a need to come to work and work. So, the state of alert is the situation where someone is constantly available to a manager or another lower functioner in a state body, when it must be exactly in a specific place and wait for a call to do a job, if necessary. The typical case of preparedness that exists in our legal system is the readiness of dactylographers, the readiness of other technical staff, during the night when they simply have to be in a certain place if a crime or something else happens, so that along with the investigative judge they can go out on the ground. Thus, the readiness deprives in some way freedom of movement, binds people to a certain room that is otherwise outside the premises of the workplace and therefore deserves a special addition. As regards the additional burden on workloads, it is also derived from the Law on State Officers under which, under the order of the Head of State, a civil servant is required to do jobs that are not listed in his place of work, so those jobs he normally works on, if necessary, to replace an absent civil servant, or it is necessary to overcome the increased volume of work. In that case, since we practically have a situation where a civil servant works in two jobs, we foresee a special supplement. As regards costs and fees, and other receipts, they are within the limits of the solutions already seen in our legal order, by trying as far as possible to deviate from the regime of the Labour Act and to bring the Law on civil servants closer to the full specialities of the official system. So, in the case of a salary, which is usually paid to a state official who doesn't work in certain situations, unlike a salary paid only by someone who works, we've provided for a special possibility of making a profit in case of suspension, away from work. The fee is 50%, unlike the Labour Act, where it is somewhat lower. There are also fees to be fixed for civil servants who have acquired the status of unscheduled, and these are some of the specificities of the official system which, in this segment, in the section of remuneration fees are derived from the general equal regime. Finally, according to the example of civil servants, the salaries of the tenants were arranged with significant deviations. In fact, furniture jobs are simply defined in short and lay language by those jobs that do not relate to the specificity of the body, which do not relate to the part-round body, but to jobs that can be done in all businesses and in what is today called the private sector. Hence, it is also a rule that, everywhere in parallel legislation, tenants are subject to, unlike civil servants, the general legal regime, which is in our case, the Labour Act. To a much lesser extent, official regulations apply. So, when it comes to tenants, we also predicted payment classes, since the tenants are classified into six groups and each group has one pay grade. The fact that the tenants don't do jobs that are part of the state body, interferes with their progress, cannot progress and therefore, within each payment group, there are no paying classes that could express their promotion to a particular job. However, compensation for this is the possibility of a substitute to receive practically two salaries more than 12 salaries a year depending on the results shown. This possibility is prescribed in the Bill which is before you and it should compensate, to make up for the fact that by the nature of its position the tenants cannot advance from one class to another class, as Nusic would say, but are doomed to remain in one pay group forever. In the end, the transitional regime of the law has been arranged that is relatively detailed in this, otherwise very sensitive situation, and by completing this exhibition, I wanted to say that we have foreseen in law the inability to cut wages. Practically, that means, in the case of a category of civil servants and deputies following the entry into force of this law, which is 1 January of next year, the salary is lower than it is due on 1 January, his salary is not reduced, but remains the same, until, under the provisions of this law, he reaches a salary equal to the salary he had before the entry into force of this law. We don't want to damage anyone by that law. For the end, I would leave one particular feature, which is, that the base is unique. At present, in our legal system, we have one half-breed, for all state officials under government authority, for the Constitutional Court, for the Court of First Instance is prescribed by the Government by a regulation, and for those civil servants, as well as for MPs and ministers, the General Board of the National Assembly prescribes. It creates problems and the procedure is under way before the Constitutional Court and it seems to me that, even later on, when it is said in detail, that these provisions of the law on salaries in the state bodies which are now in force are not put out of force by the Constitutional Court only because the legal basis for the application of salaries would disappear. So this law provides for a single basis, this basis would be determined by the budget law. Therefore, that basis would be determined by the National Assembly, the National Assembly would establish both the Government, the Ministry, the Special Organization, and the Service of the National Assembly, the Office of the President, the Service of the Constitutional Court and all state bodies. Therefore, one body of law would establish the basis by which the constitutional need to which the labour system is regulated by law is met, and the basis would enter together with the coefficient into the elements of the labour relationship system. Finally, by calling on you to debate and criticise this law, I wanted to invite you to vote for it, because I personally think, and also the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to round up one area of the office system with this law, round up the official system, and we should then move on to settling the salaries of state officials, these are MPs, ministers, etc. However, when it comes to MPs, I must tell you that the Government does not have the right to regulate it by its acts, because under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly regulates the legal position and rights and obligations of the MPs. Simply, we could create a common group and finally solve the problem of MPs and the President of the Republic and the salary of ministers, etc. and to introduce all of this into a system that would be coherent, consistent, and in which order would be introduced in the state, unlike the present state where this order is seriously clouded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27540	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric, SPS, and then Vjerica Radeta, SRS. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have again been given the law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, and I believe that, immediately in the beginning, the law should bear another name, because this "officer and tenant" thing doesn't rhyme with me. You ask someone - what are you doing in the Serbian Parliament? And he says, "I'm a tenant." I don't know if anyone's gonna understand what he's doing, where he's working, and how he's doing. There are many beautiful Serbian expressions, and I think the title of the law should change this "principal". The law is complicated and it is our pain to make it simple complicated. It looks to me like, "A peasant from my neighborhood sent his son to Belgrade for studies, so when he was on summer break, he sent him and said, count me sheep, and he left and began to count his feet. My father says, "What are you doing?" I sent you to count sheep. The Son of Answers, We will divide by four, that it may be a little more complex." This is what this law that Balinian made looks like to me. I have a lot of questions for the minister... (President: He is not the minister, he is the director. I ask him – what law is good for him? He wrote laws in our time, so he wrote at Batic's, and now he writes at Kostunica, and when he writes a new one, he says, "This past is bad, and so does he. When will he make a valid law? Next time he'll probably write a law for someone else, and if they come to radicals, he probably won't write Balinian. And this law, like all the laws that have been passed lately, is against the workers. The workers are here on the lowest step, much lower than everyone else in front of them. When asked: why is it that such a small coefficient for workers' salaries, many executives say – why did they not teach school?- I'm sorry. If everyone had studied school, I don't know who would have worked in this country and who would have made the income. When you get paid, when you decide someone's fate, it always comes to the question of whether everyone needs money. When a child and a worker goes to school in the morning, they ask for money, you have to pay him, because he doesn't want to go to school. Where does he get the worker to bring the coefficient of 0.75% in the morning? We have certain amendments to this law. If an amendment is adopted and any of the amendments of the SRS are adopted and we correct this little law, we may also vote for it, but it all depends on the amendment, and I will talk about my and the amendments that I think should be incorporated into this law. So pay grade, then pay groups, then coefficients, this is all what I said first, just so it's complicated, it's not simple. Furthermore, we have the promotion of civil servants in the higher pay grade, and it is said that the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 executive will follow in four years to assess whether you are good, very good, whether you stand out, especially you stand out, etc. I gave one amendment to erase this. They're not children's workers at school. In school, grades are given, and for preschool age, for young children under the age of six, these are descriptive grades. We'll be able to get to the salary with the descriptive estimates. So what's the manager doing? The manager should only deal with the question of going to the offices and assessing the officers, whether they stand out or not. I think this should be thrown out of the law, and this will only bring a distraction, but it can be misused. Bosses, executives can be privileged, especially graded, because it happens in practice, it's seen. We don't have to bid now whether it's going to be so or not. That's the way it is. The next question is an addition to overtime. Here the promoter says no more overtime is paid, but in a month, overtime is collected, so in six months you can do that overtime, if you have room to stay, rest, and if there is no 26% of it after six months, you can get paid. Why be simple when it can be complicated? I suggested we give him two options, where labour rights are here, human rights, when you need someone to make him work, and when you don't have to let him go home to sit. If workers are rights, if they are human rights, they should leave two options here: for the worker to choose for what he does, what he should do when he is ordered to stay, whether he will charge or take the days off. I think the workers will be damaged and this will not be applied in practice. About the fee paid to state officials who didn't work because of the disease and the injury, that's where we acted on the amendments. It says in 30 days 65% of the salary. And here there will be damaged workers in terms of poor little pay, when it raises 65% of the question is what will remain in the worker envelope. The coefficients are also proposed in some six groups. The lowest is 0.75%, and we've amended the lowest to be one, the fourth to be 1.15%, so it all fits into other groups, with us thinking that the coefficient below one is not supposed to be there. I was talking about examples of the progress regime, and I still feel that this article should be deleted, that it should not stand in the law and that nothing of the law will bother you. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this law if certain amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27542	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27543	Ladies and gentlemen, this really in the way this Parliament is doing is insulting the dignity of Parliament itself. Let the ministers ignore us, but even Zoran Balinovac is no longer ready to sit and listen to the MPs. This really goes beyond all normal behavior. What Zoran Balinovac said about the bill, he said nothing, not even from the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I will therefore read only two things in this argument – reasons for the adoption of the law. He says: "The law on civil servants who enter into force on 1 July 2006, in a completely new way, regulates the working position of employees in state authorities. The Law on civil servants also provides for the payment, remuneration and other receipts of civil servants and deputies to be governed by special law. Payment as a basic right of employment, according to the concept of the law on civil servants, should, on the one hand, reflect the complexity and responsibility of the work that is done (which results from a new concept of title relating to jobs and not to a person), and on the other hand, to reflect the results of the work (which results from the concept of advancement in the same workplace). The law on salaries of civil servants and deputies completes the normative framework necessary for state authorities, in particular the authorities of the state administration, to develop on modern principles." I really don't know if anyone understood this, especially what the government was going to say about this. That is why in the last part – the funds needed to implement the law, he says, "It is not necessary to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement the law. To implement the Law, it is necessary to provide additional funds of 4.365 million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget. This increases the current salary fund by 41%." My question continues with that story about the previous agenda, does this mean that it is already envisioned by this law that civil servants will increase their salaries by 41% next year, if that is the case, let if the state has money, I don't mind, but then I ask the question of what is wrong with employees in local self-government, whether they too from the budget to secure salaries by 41%. I don't believe it, since Dinkic threatens local self-government if he doesn't cut the number of employees that will cut their salaries. Does this mean that the budget will also provide for higher salaries for healthcare workers by 41%? Does this mean that 41% will increase education wages? Just before I spoke about education, she sent messages to the minister of education, Vuksanovic, when I was finished, and then one of our new colleagues from Kosovo and Metohija told me that Minister Vuksanovic had even abolished some of the supplements they had so far, some of the funds they bought for heating, maintained school facilities, they were cut off. And if someone comes to the local self-government to look or to the ministry, if they get there, because it's very difficult to reach the minister, then they say to the school's director, to contact UNMIK, so they can give them money to buy heat for schools where Serbian children are taught in Serbian Kosovo and Metohija. So, these are open issues, not for Balinovac, he has no idea about it, but for Minister Dinkic and Vojislav Kostunica, if indeed all budget users are going to increase their salaries by 41%, then it should mean that this government is doing well, but there's nothing from that job. Another question – does this mean that pensions will also increase by 41% or this is only the law, and it is its essence in Article 8 where it is said: "The basis is unique and determines for each budget year by law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia". You know what this means? So the coordination of salaries of employees by ministries with other parts of the state administration, because in other parts of the state's salary administration, employees are higher than they are in the ministries. And instead of just raising the salaries to the ministries, only the ones they're passing the law for, they're passing the whole law and they're totally nakarad. Zoran Balinovac, invites the MPs to adopt this smart law?- I'm sorry. And I call on Zoran Balinovac to withdraw this stupid law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, Balinovac said, well a moment ago, MP Peric said, he says, that's the situation (as he has the theatre, because he thinks he's on some stage here) in this area when it comes to the salaries of civil servants and tenants, that's the name of this new law on the state administration that we were against, thank God that we are, he says, in this area we have a half-breed. Half-breeding state?- I'm sorry. This is said by a high-ranking state official, more than 10 years old, deputy justice minister, Yugoslav deputy minister of justice, and afterwards, a high-ranking official, that is, when he served as deputy minister of justice, brought Goran Kljajevic as head of crisis staff to the same Trade Court. Zoran Balinovac, he was present when they robbed the office and drawers of the then president, Milena Aregina. Then Kostunica took him as his special advisor for legal matters and insulted all the DSS lawyers, but I don't know why they didn't respond, but it's their thing, and today he's no longer a secretary, as I called him in that afternoon's work, the director of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, so he named himself the new law that came into force on July 1st. What does this law tell us about the salaries of civil servants and tenants? In Article 3, that is, above Article 3, it is said – The beginning of the right to pay and the termination of the right to pay. So, tonguefully completely superfluous and unnecessarily. Obviously, this was done by someone who, or Balinian, who does not stand well with the Serbian language, and rightly so, we know long ago that he does not. Article 4 states: "State officials and tenants have the right to monthly salary. The salary is paid in the current month for the previous month." What does it mean they have the right to a month's salary? I guess they have the right to pay. Does this mean that if someone works until the 20th of the month and stops working for any reason, that he doesn't have the right to pay on those 20 days?- I'm sorry. That means, if we read Article 4. It's a bill of law. Or, completely unnecessary above article 7 says – basic salary. Below that – How to determine the basic salary and then in the text of Article 7 is said to determine the basic salary. Indeed, as if it were a handbook for half-writers, not a bill that, if adopted, would be applied by graduate lawyers. Furthermore, in Article 9, we, the Serbian Radicals, had one intervention of the amendment and we said that the coefficient for position and enforcement jobs is determined by having, because the law stood – because we are going to talk about this when we talk about the law in particular, and I am now mentioning this because in the meantime we have received the opinion of the Government and an explanation why our amendments are not accepted, and so much insolentness why this Article 9 does not accept that it is simply amazing. I hope the Balinian will be present when we speak in detail, so I can tell him some things in his face. In Article 10, the second position provides, I do not know, that – "The paying group in which the position is to be placed in the offices of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the departments of which the members of the National Assembly are elected shall be determined by their acts, starting with the general rules for the classification of posts" and here should put the point, but Balinovac further says, "and tends to be equally valued as similar to those of the ministries, government and courts". How can the law make something difficult? The law says something like this, and something like this isn't. There's something he can do, and there's something he can't do. The law, ladies and gentlemen, you who are not lawyers, and I think you've learned how much I am for this speaker, I draw attention to this legal terminology and these innovations are amazing. Now we have an article 13, and that's the most interesting member, in that article we're talking about coefficients. I think that now all the Serbian public who follows the work of this assembly will be, to say the least, shocked. So, the junior reference officer in the authorities of the state administration has a coefficient of 1.00, and the first group of positions, that's the ninth in a row, has nine times the salary. Never, but never in Serbia was the lowest and highest salary ratio 1:9!- I'm sorry. It is truly excessive and incredible that the MPs do not respond to this and it is amazing that someone in the government has thought to propose such a law. My people, the difference one as the lowest salary, and the highest nine times bigger, I don't think anybody in their right mind and sound logic can accept it!- I'm sorry. This is not a demagogy, this is really something that is unacceptable and never, but it has never been in Serbia!- I'm sorry. There are us here with 20, 30 and more years of work experience and with so much memory, and let someone really say, and the trees and stones always pour you out of the ruling coalition when you talk about some previous systems, but such a miracle and everyone who now sees this assembly and probably all get baptized and wonder what impudence it is, which is the insolence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica to propose such a miracle!- I'm sorry. Who determines the coefficients? The third position of Article 15 states: "The Prime Ministers' Boards of Appeal and Justice and Councilors of the Prime Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers who are in a working relationship belong to the coefficient of the position set by the Government." This has to be erased. Why should only they be privileged to determine their coefficient by government, if everything else is regulated by law. And who are these people?- I'm sorry. Who are these presidents, which are the Board of Appeals, who are the counselors, are they here referring to Gilas and the People's Office? In any case, gentlemen, you've given them a lot, or it's not acceptable at all, that they're planned for the budget, and they've gotten quite a bit of money through the budget. And even now, the "yellow" criminal, Gilas, who has robbed so much and boasts about his income annually, how much millions a month, and who needs a special salary to be regulated by this law. Unbelievable!- I'm sorry. Article 16 must be deleted because it speaks of the progress of a civil servant in the higher pay grade. Here Balinovac said that the essence of this law is, I wrote, he says, "the pay increases according to the results of the work". If it had been that way by now, Balinian would still be getting a trainee's salary. "The civil servant," said Article 16, "who, for two years, has been a consecutive score particularly, is making progress for two paid classes. For a paying class progresses a civil servant whose two years has been a consecutive score is due", for a pay grade, good, it stands out, good etc. Fellow MPs, this is really stupid, because this is something that is absolutely inadmissible in practice. I'm going to remind you again that Serbia has been practicing this once. We had this. I worked at the local self-government and we also had forms that were filling out, "good", "expresses", "extends" etc. The criteria don't exist. It's impossible in this way to determine the criteria, to follow someone for two years, and to have someone especially likable. So, abuse of "please" in the application of this law. There's no exact data, some things to tell who's good, who's out there, who's out there, who's out there. The criteria will be party membership and that's perfectly clear. As long as those of the DSS are in power, G17 plus those who are now, theirs will be in advantage. When someone else comes, or where someone else is in some organs, because there's a lot of "yellows" in various state organs, even though they say they're opposition, of course it's a lie, then there's their progress. Those who are not from these parties can never progress under this law. This just has to be erased, we can't legally open up the possibility of abuse. I remind you again, when it was once in service, and it was, what were the employees doing? Half the time they were on their own, writing down how many parties came in, how many times he phoned, how many times he betrayed there some beliefs, how many papers he examined. It's really amazing and a waste of time and senseless and inapplicable. This has to be erased. Then, in article 18, you speak, "The state official who enters the position of head of the internal unit is increasing the coefficient by two paying classes." I don't know why he would skip, why it's not one pay grade, why that double jump has to do, I really don't get it, unless the purpose of this law is the same as the State Department Act, and then we talked about it – State Secretary, etc. for five years, to leave behind the back when you lose power. Probably, that's what you want, to get some of your guys to jump one step, give them good pay and enjoy themselves. Therefore – An additional burden on work, Article 26 in paragraphs 2 and 3 says, an additional burden for at least a dozen working days a month, and it applies to one place, if a man performs one kind of work and his colleague is sick, then he will do one and another job for a month and then, if he works up to ten working days, nothing will happen to anyone, and if he works at least ten working days, imagine, generously, his salary will be increased by four percent. That's terrible. If he works for more than ten days, his salary will be up five percent. You know, this is insulting these people again. This way, with four percent, you've almost increased your salary to health care employees. That seems to be some number that means something to you, but I just don't understand what that might mean to you, but it's really unacceptable. You'd better say he's got two jobs to do because he doesn't have current colleagues at work and he's working for that pay he usually receives, not to be loaded twice, without getting only four percent of the salary, and only if he's been working for more than ten days. So this isn't good and it has to change. We have proposed an amendment solution. When we talk about it, we'll talk about it in more detail. Excessive work, you predicted that overtime would not be paid. This isn't good and this can't stay. He says, "Extremely, a state official who can't take advantage of the hours off because the nature of jobs more often requires such extensive overtime, can be paid an extra for every hour of overtime, which is 26%." That's how you formulate it to depend exclusively on some boss to get overtime or to get days off. This can't do this. So everyone in the state bodies who has to work in the interest of the service, here, let's say, the National Assembly sometimes ambushs up to one, two hours a night, of course, all the accompanying services in the congregation have to be there. Now we're going to force them, because the ruling majority's MPs don't come to the Assembly, because tomorrow, the Assembly won't have a meeting for what reasons, maybe the day after tomorrow, we'll probably work Thursday nights, these people who are busy sitting here because the MPs are working, and we'll tell them, thank you very much for staying here till midnight, but we won't pay you, so go home, and one day you might get some day off. So this is exploitation and this cannot remain in the law. Every minute of overtime, if there are really reasons to work overtime in state authorities and anywhere, every minute of overtime has to be paid. Of course, like in Europe. Way to go, Jojich! If Europe is followed, I don't see what jumps here on such an important segment. The addition to the results of the work, which is Article 48(3), says to you: "The addition for the results achieved and its height of the solution is decided by the Head of State, on a proposal that he makes, following talks with the person directly assumed by the employer, the Head of the Internal Unit" etc. So it's not the one who's running it, it's the one who's going to be consulted. Again the obstacles, again the possibility of abuse, again if you accidentally look at someone who's your superior, the pay goes, the supplement goes, there's no overtime, there's no transition to another group. Unbelievable. Article 50 says, "The regulation that prescribes compensation for the costs of civil servants and tenants is the height of their severance... The government brings up until 1 January 2007." I would like the government to tell the National Assembly, that is, to give the National Assembly information on this regulation, to see how much money it is, to which it is given, how it is, etc. Article 54. - I don't think there will really be anyone who won't vote for this amendment where we suggested that this be deleted. Among other things, not to read the whole article, the 2nd item says: "In 2009 and 2011, in the higher pay grade, 20% of the total number of civil servants in the state body can progress, etc. What if 70% of civil servants meet all those requirements that preceded this article 54. What we're going to say - the law said that only 20% can advance, and you 50% still have you, that you meet those conditions, I'm sorry, not Balinovac predicted you. Who's going to choose, out of those 70% that meet the conditions, these 20% that Balinovac predicts? This is really out of your mind and this absolutely has to be erased, to disappear from this text of the law, if you want a good law. Finally, in article 59, you said that the law enters into force on 1 July 2006, that some provisions have been applied since 1 January 2008, and that Article 16 has been applied since 1 January 2011, and Article 16 is the member that has to be deleted, which is the member "in particular it stands out", "it stands out" etc. You know, in 2011, you'll be very far and completely forgotten by you who are the creators of this law, I mean, in a political sense, forgotten. So, I call on the government's representative in absentia to withdraw this law, I call on fellow Members, if that doesn't happen, to at least vote in favour of our amendments, so that the law is as much and as applicable, practical and just. Without that, you will pass a law that will make paupasian in the state bodies, which will lead to such abuses, to such bad human relationships, to half-tronmenting, that it will be the most terrible thing to see in action. So another call for this very bad bill to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27544	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and Sreto Peric will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27545	Dear People's MPs, it seems that the ruling majority is not interested in the provisions of this law. Looking at the reasoning of this law and, as the "director" Balinovac said, the bill was implemented by the Law on Civil Servants, which is due to enter into force on July 1st, 2006. When the provisions of the proposed law and the reasoning given under this law are taken into account, the first thing I saw was that there were no sentences that the directive, resolution or recommendation of the EU for the adoption of laws and on civil servants and of this so-called so-called. A law of law, as the "director" of Balinovac said. It is likely that the wisdom and wisdom of the promoter has proposed this law, and the provisions of this law should enter into force, some since 1 July 2006, Articles 39, 50, 51, 55 and 56, and the law in general should enter into force on 1 January 2007, and the provisions of Article 16 to enter into force on 1 January 2011. It is pointless to propose such a provision that will take place in more than four years. Not to mention the essence of that provision and many provisions of this law. I'll only list a few of those provisions. This is the time to return to 1961-62, the time, when in the state administration, the former SFRY organization or the establishment of state officials was based on payment classes. This is an attempt to make a copy of that system a bill and to have government officials deployed into paying groups, not paying classes, to call it a little different. If one bill was to be clear and precise, in addition to this Law on civil servants, so should this law on salaries of civil servants and deputies. Matter is such that clear and precise norms can regulate salaries of civil servants and tenants and all rights related to the work of the state administration. The promoter had no ability to propose provisions of the law that would be clear and precise. Through the determination of paying groups and the determination of what is the basic profit, what is the profit or pay supplement, tries to invent some criteria based on these norms and provisions of laws that are inapplicable and pointless. How can an assessment be made by a direct executive: "indeed it stands out", "it stands out", "good" and I don't know what's listed here in the law? There are no measuring criteria in the law. So that's a subjective assessment of the direct manager. Is all this proposed by this law, which in general will not come into effect until 1 January 2007, the wish of those who hold power – the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the parties in the ruling coalition, that, according to the Law on Civil Service, which enters into force on 1 July, execute the schedule, appoint or appoint officials in this period of six months, with all these provisions, those officials should continue their work, especially the Director, in five years, under this new bill and with the rights that give them the provisions of this law. As MPs, we have never had insight, in recent years, as is organized by the Government, or the Ministry of Government. We've had many times that certain jobs of the ministries are literally dislocated through law-making in many agencies, in many so-called agencies. Regulatory bodies that are independent and that we have no idea what's going on in the ministries. What was to be done, it is a reform of the entire state administration, as required by Minister Dinkic, who was also supposed to be an authorised proponent in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to reform the municipal administration in local self-government. "The Director" Balinovac said here that it was semi-haotic or semi-breeding in the state administration. I'm not gonna say it's half-breeding, but one chaos, one anarchy of government in the entire state administration. Whether what we have at this time and this law and the Law on civil servants should serve to ensure that 3,500 or 4,000 people who are currently out of work, without salaries in the bodies of the state community, are translated into the administration of the Republic of Serbia, although we allegedly tried to reduce the administration of the state community, many have received severances, and large severances, but have come to employment or appointments in the administration of the Republic of Serbia. Whether there will now be an enormous increase in the administration of the Serbian state, and pressure will be placed on local self-government to reduce the number of employees and by the order of Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be 10% by the first wave, and will follow next year probably the new 10%. To speak here about the provisions of Article 13 where these coefficients are foreseen – it is incomprehensible and in some way unreasonable to suggest such a range. We who have worked for many years in the administration and in the economy know what the ranges were or what relationships were in terms of business, work assignments, profit or salary. At some point, I remember that relationship as much as 1:6, so it fell to 1:5, so 1:4 or 1:4,5. Here's the insolence we have here, that article 13 predicts ratio 1:9. And Article 15 gives it back to someone there, that, in the framework of the Government, the criteria and criteria determines the coefficients, i.e. the pay groups, determine the salaries and other incomes. In fact, this law should have basically made everything clear and precise to determine and only to be applied by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the authorities of the National Assembly, not to speak from others in the state administration. The assessment of the results of what I mentioned is "specificly highlighted", there are no measurable or objective criteria and criteria when it comes to the assessment of results in the administration. People's MP Verica Radeta, since she worked in the municipal administration, brought out a piece here, and I worked at the municipal administration, and I worked for many years at the Jugobanca. And at some point, it was imposed that criteria and criteria were allegedly adopted for the assessment of workers and based on both the scope and quality and the deadlines or the success of the performance of the work. There were absurd situations that the bank should, say, have someone stand by the counter to measure with a stopwatch how many cashiers or liquidators perform one liquidation or savings operation. Looking at the whole with amendments submitted by the SRS, too much to erase several of these members and to amend certain members, only with the adoption of these amendments will this law make sense and will be able to apply. Otherwise, as I said about this provision that is due to enter into force on 1 January 2011, the law itself and all provisions are pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27546	The word has the People's Messenger Sreto Peric, and let Stefan Zankov be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27547	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues, if we were to do the job that citizens expect of us, after the presentation of MP Hranislav Peric and MP Verica Radeta, you from the parliamentary groups who support this government should come out and say critically that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. We've been getting various bill proposals so far, but none of them seem anything like this. Before I comment, only you remember when we adopted the Law on State Officials and the Law on Government, at that time, the Secretary of the Secretariat for Law in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Balinovac, was at all times, not only when we spoke in the debate in principle, but also when we talked about details, or amendments, he debated there. Now I ask the question – where could he be at right now? Apparently, a little scared of the election results last week... You of the ruling coalition have estimated that there is not enough activity of the Minister of Capital Investments, Mr Velimir Ilic, in places or municipalities where elections are held, but, behold, it has also reached Mr Balinovac that he must go too... But it looks like Bor finally left and you don't see any chance. The MP from Bor, who is, like this, a very polite and correct colleague, is there, informing himself. So, the SRS is expecting a victory in Bora next week. Now let's get back to this law. Franislav Peric said that this law is very complicated and indeed in certain provisions it is so. But there is something not that is simply regulated by this law but offensive to those whom he will refer to and to us who read it. Here's a distinguished colleague, Mika Vlaovic, who will agree with me. Listen to the provision of Article 3 of this Act, Section 1 states: "State officials and tenants shall exercise the right to pay from the day they enter work." And Section 2 says, "The civil servants and the tenants have ceased to pay their wages since the day their working relationship stopped." This may be interesting for the legislation of Europe, they do not know when they get the right to pay, or the right to earn, and in our beautiful Serbia there is no man who can design, can design, has a desire to establish a working relationship without knowing that the law itself regulates when they get the right to pay. Article 4 says, "The civil servant and the tenant have the right to monthly salary. The salary is paid in the current month for the previous month." Well, these are things that are meant by themselves, that have nothing to do with one of these laws. What else does this law mean? In many of the provisions of this law there are many subjective places in the application of this law. So, some superior, senior official or official will determine fate, not only on wages, but also on the fate of those who are employed in the authorities of the state administration, or civil servants and tenants, which is inadmissible. Article 13, this was commented by Mrs Verica Radeta, an international MP, Miljko Četrovic, who is inadmissible, unreasonable, and even, insolently and rudely, this difference in coefficients between the younger referent and someone who is in the first group of positions. And you know why this relationship was left nine times in favor of members of the first group of positions? For reasons, because under his authority there is a much greater number of perpetrators, and logically, it is natural that whoever is supposed to have a greater influence and the possibility of influence on political belongings and on some other things which certainly is not and should not be good. We talked here about the strategy of tourism development, the reform strategy in the judiciary, and that's okay, that's good, that's in this country with this way of turning, working and functioning state institutions needed, but it should be under urgent, long before laws like this, to talk about the standard of living and the mental health strategy of Serbian citizens. Most, that is, have several colleagues who are specialists in the area and know the problems they face. Here, Professor Milet Poscurica is no expert on the area. But if someone addresses his heart problems, he sees that man has other problems. And you see that from day to day we have suicides, murders and other reasons, it's all the consequence, among other things, of how this government is ruled, and on the other hand, dear colleagues of mine, and yours, because you support such a government unreservedly, if you allow such a law to enter the procedure without having a single word, until now you've usually praised something, and now you see that this is pointless, well, you have dignity and you're not going to take part in this debate. So, there's a growing number of these problems, and we're talking, like, a little demagogue yesterday, about how we're going to fix the situation, how we're going to hire a new number of workers. They won't, not until they create better economic environments. Here, Mr. Sava Urosevic is a man who attracts and has a number of problems, and I'm sure with the law that was on the agenda yesterday, there won't be much, although he has come out, he's very well commented, he's found some points that can't be challenged and we can't argue. In addition to these members I said made no sense, that they were offensive to Serbian citizens, we also have a member of 16. In this law that was on the agenda yesterday, both now and in an increasing number of those laws being passed, it is said - effective on the eighth day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", but will apply from 1 January 2007. The first of January 2007, of course, is not the period in which this government will be in power, but here you went much further than that, so you even mention 2011 for certain provisions of this law, for some in 2008. That's really inappropriate, incorrect. And in Article 16, this is Mrs. Verica Radeta's commentary, evaluations and way of rewarding, that is, what affects all of the salaries, and this is one of the subjective members who will leave a great opportunity for the manager to subjectively determine about the evaluation and way of rewarding. Then, on past work, it seems to me that Minister Lalovic will not agree with it, because he has a completely different concept that he speaks in the press, on television, about this category of past work, but that I am not getting into it now. In addition to overtime, it is regulated in Articles 26 and 27 of this proposal. I don't know, if someone's had increased efforts, they've had the first day as well as the 31st, so making these 10-day divisions, over 10 and over 30, I don't think it's possible. Finally, here you have said, and I will comment differently on the funds needed for the implementation of this law, where it is said that no additional funds are needed in the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget, as this law is expected to apply from 1 January 2007, and additional funds of 4.365 million dinars will be needed for 2007. This increases the current salary fund by 41%. If it's an increase in salaries for officials and tenants, it should, it's good and we in the SRS never mind raising anyone's salary. We're more committed to preventing corruption, crime. Secondly, when it comes to wages, there is a real possibility that they will increase to every employee in every place. This is good, and it should be a constant commitment to every government and all people involved in government in any way, but the question is, since there is no justification, that there may be no increase in the number of employees, so that this 41% projected as an increase in the salaries of civil servants is spent? And you heard from a comment on what's going on with local self-government employees, where the finance minister has ordered to cut by 10%. There may be local self-government where it is objective and necessary, but these are the local self-governments in which in 2000, these "yellows" came to power and took over and "shoot and naked," and where others were in power in 2000, and even today, it is not such a situation, it was domestically held in these municipalities and received only when they were objective reasons for the reception of new workers. In the end, let me just say, even the amendments that we have submitted will not be able to make this law high-quality and applicable, and the only suggestion is that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, and if that is Balinovac, if it is on the Administrative Committee, or somewhere in the election campaign, do not do so before this, please vote against this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27548	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind you first of how we set off with this item of the agenda, the vice-president of the National Assembly who chaired it at that time, he gave a break to the former secretary, and now the director of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, so much respect, came to explain his proposal to us. From what we've heard, it's already his third proposal in the past few years under every authority, and this same Zoran Balinovac, as soon as he told a little story, left the hall and did not respect the MPs to listen to their remarks. That's where I primarily think of the SRS, because only our MPs, practically, discuss this item on the agenda. What did Mr. Balinovac tell us for those few minutes, right to tell you, I don't know why we've been waiting for him? He said who the civil servants were, who they were, and he said they should get paid. That's where I think we all agree and we really didn't need it. Not a single comment was related to these, according to us, flat-rate figures, I mean various percentages, hours, coefficients concerning employee earnings, i.e. the profit of civil servants and tenants. There's room for the story and for the analysis. I guess that's why he left the session. The law is abundant with much inaccuracy, the text is too extensive. I don't agree that if the law has many members, he's good. It's better to be shorter, but to make it clear how it should be handled. I stand by to say that all of these percentages and coefficients are quite flat-rate, that's what my colleagues have commented on, and I think three of the most important members are to comment on. About the inaccuracy of other things, we'll leave it when our amendments are on the agenda, and we'll discuss it in detail. What is most drastic, which the SRS cannot agree with, is Article 13 of Title 13 – The coefficients, where the range between the first and the thirteenth canvas groups of even 1:9 is predicted. We're not even into some sort of an orderly, as it is said, but this is completely inhumane and we don't think it can stay like this, and the responsibility is on the congregation's majority, which is likely to vote for this. We keep calling not to vote for this. We believe that the man who works as a junior referent, and this first group of positions, that these are the people who have children, who have to live out of it, and that it is certainly not worth this job nine times more than the job that carries out the junior referent, and that is absolutely unacceptable to us. We think that this relationship should be much smaller. In the amendment, we suggested that it should be 1:3.5 – these are difficult times and everyone working in the state administration should, and that is today, unfortunately, so to speak, be more attractive jobs that can be found in Serbia, given the state of the economy, it is unacceptable that this range is this size. The second thing, with the grade, you know, in the field of education, I think for the first grade, I don't know whether or not for the second one, but surely for the first one, there were some estimates of descriptive character, so it's said – the child got a flower, a butterfly, and I don't know exactly what. This looks like it. This looks like it, except that there will be no flowers and butterflies here, but the employees will get, if they don't already have the membership cards of certain parties that are in power, it will be the only basis for advancement and for those good grades. I guess someone's gonna be following, whether they're gonna be a busy man who's just gonna do that, to follow the way the clerks do. This looks like some of the reforms in the areas of education that have been accidentally implemented. As for the extra burden on the work, it is absolutely humiliating that someone who does additional work and is given up to 4% of the basic salary as a reward, at least 10 working days, and that from at least 20 working days gets an entire 8%. This terrible abuse can be, can be assumed in this way by someone to drive them out of work if it lasts from day to day, he does not accept that he works for 4% and we are afraid that there are not many abuses per article 26. We believe that if someone is already doing an extra job these percentages must be 10%, or 20% in our proposal by 15 days and over 15 days. The extra for overtime is something very interesting, which I would like to comment on at the end of the presentation. He says, "A civil servant for every hour who, by order of his superior, works longer than full-time (overwork) has the right to an hour and a half off." The basic thing is, and the minimum minimum is that this civil servant can choose, choose whether he wants to free that hour and a half or wants to get paid. This is the basic thing said by MP Petar Jojic, so it is in Europe and why you are not now applying the practice of Europe. Not only in Europe, it's more pronounced in America, that all overtime is paid a lot more. One more thing, what happens if the civil servant for some reason stops working, and he's got a number of hours off and if it's going to fail, so I don't think anyone has the right to force employees to work to get some day off. That's four basic criticisms. More stories will be on the day when we will discuss details and language inaccuracies. Something else that bothers me, which is practically in every law of yours. Article 57 says that by 1 January 2011, the justification for a further existence of an allowance during a working relationship will be examined, which is very strange for one law. This law shall enter into force on 1 January 2007, and certain provisions shall enter into force on 1 July 2006, and certain provisions shall enter into force in 2008, some 2011. You'd better wait, you'd better think about it and make a much more precise law regarding the work of officials and tenants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27550	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27551	This is more of a memorial session, as I see it, because no one from the government is interested in this, they think they have 126, so this law as 200 and change, as Markovic boasts efficiency, and this one will be passed. This is another bill that has no concept, but this bill also has very pronounced mental problems. It's hard to figure this out, and it's even harder to apply. It can be applied to a large amount of volunteerism. In order for those who follow this transmission to understand what is going to happen and know what is going to hit them, I have to point out that for a long time there was a period, if we take an example of the ministry, the minister treated close to God, he made all decisions, he was bound by some act of internal organisation, by some regulation that regulates salaries and regulates the names of jobs, but there was some possibility, though modest, for some stimulation and to make some difference between those who work better, who work weaker, etc. In the ministries, a section concerning expert tasks for the preparation of the ministry was completely neglected. That's where the ministers came in differently. I'm telling you this on the basis of my personal experience, because I'm still being prosecuted by the "yellow" authority for allegedly paying off the stimulation, but the prosecutor doesn't know it was the law and regulations that regulated the stimulation, so it's still standing. The D.A.'s chasing, the court won't do anything, I'm shaking, I'm afraid of what's gonna happen. They concluded that there was unlawfully paid stimulation, and the prosecutor doesn't know that there's a law and regulation that regulates it, and he doesn't have any idea at all that there was a commission in the ministry that based on the results of the work on stimulation. What do we do, we have prosecutors, such courts, and such "yellows" that persecute. That's what Djelic was doing by order of Djindjic and by order of the International Investment Fund. The search warrant is from abroad. That's the period when they found me even my own brother, even though I'm an only child. This bill only at first sight seems to be some regulation that will be very precise and very concrete to regulate the system of wages in the state services. So when someone reads it that's not really in this matter they're going to say it's a complete regulation, it's all written there. However, when the provisions are analysed, one by one, then it is seen that there is no binding tissue between the members, there are problems to understand some concepts, so the salary comes down to a coefficient, completely absurd. There's no pay solution here. This is the solution to the coefficient. If you've defined yourself as a pay grade and a pay group, you could probably have taken any regulation of the Yugoslav Army that arranged the salaries under this system and these were relatively good regulations, it was all predetermined according to rank, according to years of work experience, what are the additions, etc. However, there had to be some expressions of creative innovation here, and it is reflected in the fact that above each member there is a name for that member. I would ask you not to laugh at this serious moment, because here's, let's say, what's written as the title for article 7. How the basic salary is determined. So this is a question and since it's a question, so the title of the member is a question, then we should be in a member to have questions. This is the system of writing the law when a man sits alone and talks to himself and says, how do we determine the salary, write, how do we determine the salary, and we'll determine that by Article 7, then, the basic salary, so let's see further and it's a free literary composition that absolutely means nothing. Don't laugh, it's perfectly normal. Furthermore, the right to pay, now to skip a little bit, so let's see what's written in that same article 7 but Article 2 says, "The basic salary belongs to a public employee who works," be careful, "who works full-time or working hours that are considered full-time. "A state official who doesn't work full-time has the right to a basic salary that is proportional to the length of his working time." I guess he's entitled to pay in the right amount of time, not full, and then he's filled with something. Article 7(1) shall begin as follows: "The basic salary shall be determined by multiplying the coefficient with the basis for the calculation and payment". Now this basis for the calculation and payment of the salary is called the "baseline", and I don't know why you put this in – payment, because it's always the basis for the calculation. It's a paying-off, which gives the clerk the funds that represent the salary, but it's all messed up here, so I'm surprised you say in article 14, "The coefficient is determined by the solution," which is actually supposed to be a pay-out solution. So, when someone started a work relationship, concluded a contract, then the pay is determined, possibly during the relationship, a change is possible, depending on the job name to which the pay group is assigned, which pays the class within the pay group. But it's a pay solution, it can't be a solution to the coefficient, because here the coefficient appears to be something important, and that's the instrument that comes up with this amount of pay. There's mixed stuff in here. It's not about the pay, it's about the coefficient, it's completely messed up. Furthermore, "Paid classes express progress in the same enforcement post under the conditions laid down by this law". And now there are eight paying classes, so, from the sixth to the thirteenth pay group, there are eight paying classes within each pay group and there is a later provision relating to the time period that it takes to be, if I may say, in a particular job, because there must be a difference between the one who works six months at the workplace and his colleague who has worked in that same job for five years and does the same jobs. There's no such division for the first five groups, and why? There is talk of positions and beware of what is said here, says – the coefficients for positions and execution jobs are determined by placing each position and each executive position in one of the 13 pay groups. And who does that, who sets it up? The one who manages the state authorities or even the authorities where this law applies. It says: positions are sorted. It's not a job that's done, it's a position. Look, the termology here is entirely from Nusic's National MP, which you know, it's complete, it's going to be elected minister, he's provided me with and promised a setup, and why? He can't be a civil servant. He can hire him there as his uncle's uncle, etc. So the termology is entirely from Nusic's comedies, it's all dragged through. He's got three comedies about it, not just one. A pay group where the position is classified, you see, a position in the service of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Perisha, this is your position as deputy secretary, so it turns out, so the President of the Republic, and how you're going to classify Gilas, I don't know what that position is going to be. You even accepted that there was no National Office, under the Budget Law there is no National Office, termologically, there is no position where the National Office writes, but the money goes. How are you going to classify them there? They will not even classify anyone, but Tadic will classify them, so what will the law do to us, because a man can do whatever he wants, the richest man, the biggest tycoon, throw in and play, I don't know, a little bit like Dafina Milanovic, a Serbian mother, and this is a Serbian boy, worried, walking around in a 600-euro store and saying, it's really hard for you. And he sympathises in their pain, that's it. You see, there's a lot of toothpicks and a lot of things that probably won't do any good in practice. I must tell you that it will not serve as much help when the budget of the Republic of Serbia is projected, however much it seems to you that the number of employees, paying groups, coefficients, when anyone progresses, when he is two years old, a year old, will not help you to apply this law, nor in better planning the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, be sure of that. Why? You have practically given freedom here to the head of an authority or organisation to adopt, according to their opinion, certain criteria that the Government will have to adopt on the basis of the systematization and organisations in each state body and determine the calls and under the Law on civil servants, and yet individuals who operate certain bodies will be able to design appropriate jobs according to their own authority. I'm going to give you an example of the tobacco agency or any other agency to consider, I have to remind you of one more thing, is this law applied to the National Bank of Serbia, how do you think it applies there? I don't want to take into account the governor's salary and the vice governor's salary, I'm not even gonna make it up to members of the National Bank's council, take these others. How will you determine their wages? Just to remind you, when there was a talk about how much Governor Jelasic's salary was and could he raise his salary, or to raise a loan that big to buy that house he didn't want to trade with whoever offered him the money, then it's said that people working at the National Bank have to have extra big salaries, and why? The clients they work with shouldn't have a much higher salary than them. How are you going to seduce that order there and take off those salaries that, roughly, correspond to the salaries that exist, say, in these most developed ministries, because in the Ministry of Finance some actually have a good salary, but most don't have that salary as they say. Of course, since it is a principle debate, I do not go into the concrete solutions that we have covered with 20 amendments, because next week we will talk about it more, to point out the specific shortcomings, but other than this terminology, the terminologyal delusions that arise, the objections of the people who have done this job and who know very well that certain provisions are impossible to apply, right away I tell you, all the provisions on these supplements, you can hardly apply to inspection bodies, I mean pay supplements, because you have a special chapter – supplements based on the salaries of civil servants, it's from Article 23, and you will find that very difficult to apply when it comes to inspection bodies. Of course, you only give these laws some groundwork for the MUP, for some other ministries, but you have these civilian ministries where there are inspection bodies. You can hardly apply this in terms of length of working time, and in terms of how to calculate wages, how to calculate additions and rewards. If you reduce the reward to working hours, to workplaces, and leave out all other aspects that measure quality, and potential this "extends", "specially stands out" etc., be assured that that effect will not be achieved. Within the ministry itself, that effect will not be achieved. You have a situation that in practice people are faced with this problem at all, that it's impossible to account for a civil servant's salary. It's impossible to account justly. For what? How do you calculate to a man, if he came to work, say, let the hours be at half past nine, he comes home at eight, works, knows that he needs an emergency to finish something, the government asks, has to stay and work after noon, he has to stay in the afternoon to work, he carries home the items to work, after three, four days of hurricane work, it's been a government session, you know, when it comes to the preparation of the law or some report, etc., and you have one or possibly two people in the service who know how to work that job. How are you going to charge that man in one, two, three or five months, and he's always working? You cannot justly account, and under the provisions of this law you will only cause an even greater injustice within the ministry itself, within the service itself. The question of the day off, the question of coming, going out, etc. I think in the basics, I appreciate the effort to settle this issue. Of course, I don't support such a big pay gap in the civil servants' category, so now, regardless of these pay groups, I don't support it, I think it's a big difference. You can't put the state service in this context, it's not a business. Secondly, I have to tell you, there's been a situation before, it's not the first time, but since 2001 we've been referring to mass analytical professional work for the needs of the ministry by institutes, groups of individuals from NGOs, so just to remind you. Probably 70 percent of the rules adopted by this National Assembly for these two and a half years as a positive side and as a reason why the opposition also pleaded to support such a bill was that the law was done by a working group made up of professors, an institute. The bill has been certified by this Slovenian, which controls whether it is in line with European standards and with the standards some others have imagined. Someone has to say -- well, what's written is consistent with the views of this religious sect, the Venice Commission. You moved that good part of the job out of the ministry and out of the government. Let me remind you, make a list, here's a question. May I also ask a parliamentary question – since 2001, on 25 January, until today, to list how many legal proposals was the member of the Gašo Knezevic working group, Dragor Hiber, Vesna Rakić-Vodinelić, her husband Vodalić, Bosko Mijatovic and not to order further? Let's figure out how many bill proposals they've made. Do you remember when the Executive Procedure Act was passed? In parallel with the bill, the work group's book was circulated, which wrote the regulation. It's not? We MPs got that. Don't these regulations, proposals and drafts of these regulations work in the ministry? If you don't work at the ministry, then these, fifth group, fourth, third, second, I don't know why they should have six, seven, eight or nine times to have a higher salary. What is their job viewed? In the process of filling out the systematization. There's a secretary of state, there's an assistant minister. What do we got? We have a situation that half of the ministerial assistants have no idea where they are – those from G17 plus that they put in this, which the Ministry of Finance, which these other ministries are. They don't know, people, what hit them. What do they know? They know how to say – please, in Slovenia such a regulation has been passed, why we should not have such a regulation. Even their expertise is based on it. Already in the next office, a dactylographer knows more than that expert. By what criteria does he get that kind of pay? No criteria. There's a political contract and a boss. Let's not get angry, the same situation is with the SPO. Worse. Go to any ministry where the DSS or the government is, they're going to complain about Vuk Draskovic and his SPO. I don't expect a confession from you, you won't admit it, you're coalition partners, but you have to suffer. Your heart and soul know how you get to 126. They were interested in the airport, for Geneks, for this fair, this porn fair, there's Trpkovic; they even had to make up a porn fair to sell burgers because they have a percentage of burgers. And when it's not time for the fair they're making a fair because burgers have to be sold. Now tell me what this lucky guy is more capable of than 99 percent of the people who work at the Department of Commerce. He has no idea where he is. There isn't. You see that Milosavljevic, he flees to the Chamber of Commerce, there, the DS pulled all theirs, everything in the Chamber of Commerce. We're the only state that has a mandatory chamber, they all have a voluntary one, but this one has to be, nobody gets angry with the president, because Platini's the best goalie in the world, you know how it goes. Now you convince us, we need to help you and should be told to a man who has worked for 20 years at the Ministry of Professional Affairs that Sredkovic is an expert on him or that Senic. And he's an expert. What's he an expert there for? Explain to me, please. What kind of experts are these? Who gave them the degree that they were experts? Ceda Jovanovic was an expert. Please, what are we talking about? Sutanovac was an expert in working at the MUP, so he became excess, stole 20, 30, 50 salaries and came back on the salary. "Suki Plasma," came back on payday. Boki Tadic, the best man, promised him you'd be a tenant. As soon as the Democrats win, you'll be a tenant or a civil servant. He kept some coffee there, washed cups there, etc. An expert, a creep from a bar. There's been a hoax out of the cafe and she said, "We can take money from these abroad, and we can do politics." And that's the whole political scene of Serbia. It's the whole political scene of Serbia. The state's destroying our coffee shop and the little punks from the bar. They find a way to take money, they don't care, they cheat abroad a little bit, the abroad says -- they're cranky for money, they have everything to do as we say and there we go. Experts became, a diploma got in some gutter. Waiting next to the National Theatre from the gutter to drop out, dropped a diploma, immediately the Junior hired it, no idea, they don't know where they were. He's the first, second payroll group, he's got six, seven times the salary of a man who's been working at the ministry for 20 years, taking care of the state, taking care of his job, taking care of his job, taking care of it when the government changes whether he's going to move him, whether he's going to move him, that maybe in the campaign someone didn't promise his nephew that he's going to be a catererer, and he's an idiot by profession. Well, we won't, Mr. Balinovac, vote for this bill. When there is talk of our amendments, then we will specifically tell you what we resent about every member on which we wrote the amendment. If you're already passing the law, then explain to me why the Prime Ministers of the Board of Appeal and Justice, the Prime Ministers' advisers and the Deputy Prime Minister's Vice President, now take your Vice President Ivana Dulic-Markovic and she picks up these Ustashas and brings them to be advisers. What shame? [[Tossing out of the O.R.: It's a shame.]] Who's embarrassed? Am I to be ashamed? For me to be ashamed?!- I'm sorry. Where was her cousin? And the brother, where was he, in the Republika Srpska Army or Zenga? What was it?- I'm sorry. You're tearing up my country. Wait for the experts to see, now they'll vote and you'll see. No more. There are no people, take care, you also had Stjepan Marović and Svetozar Mesic. Sekula Drljević is currently leading, so you know. Red Croatia is made, the country is torn apart. How? And laws like this and experts like this, on a mission. The citizens of Serbia will do little by little, and we insist on from this pay phone, little by little, to explain what anyone does, why it does, how much it works, and where it ends. Well, the citizens of Serbia, know, while there are such coalition governments and if there are such coalition governments in the future, from 19, 20, 250 or five parties, we'll have a break-up, so we'll have what's smart to be ashamed of, the fool is proud of. Vuk Draskovic boasts his biggest friend Javier Solana, the one who bombed us, who signed the bombing. "Dear Ollie Ren," "Dear Carla del Ponte." What the Serbian people most hate is the main reason Vuk Draskovic must be foreign minister. Of course, Kostunica is all fair, he "poor" all must suffer. What does he have to put up with? What did he promise, whom did he promise? I listened to Kostunica's talk during 2000 on Montenegro's TV. I heard what he said very well: "All problems are solved after 24 September 2000; Kosovo is returning, with Montenegro it is being settled". So, what are you doing? Who are you setting us up as civil servants, those who brag about how they work for abroad? Are you trying to convince us that this is a trip abroad? The way to Europe? Keep in mind, the independent state of Croatia has been established, a genuine red Croatia since Montenegro. Take care! You're accusing us of conspiracy theory and, please, how did all this happen in that theory? And with this law and many laws that have been passed here most of the 126 and a half plus the Genex, 126 and a half plus the Oil Industry, 126 and a half plus some television, 126 plus the position. That's your compromise. That compromise of yours, we're losing the state. That cohabitation of yours is painful. Sick. Tell me one state official who supported this bill, who thinks there's something normal here. He's gone, but no one can say anything. Why can't he? They know what can happen. Make up an expert overnight. We're reading your "ci you," "curucum", "variate," as it was. And that's what they're putting in for us. They're putting us all in. Citizens of Serbia, consider why this government, which was long to fall, continues to survive. The foot soldiers didn't finish that job they got. They've come to disintegrate this country. Take care of yourself next time you vote. As soon as you see it say D, run away. Democracy is painful for Serbia. Everything the Democrats wear is painful. A democratic block, a block to break up the state. If you choose them again, then you're an accomplice to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27552	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27553	In a very inappropriate way, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, one of the best ministers in the Serbian government, was mentioned. I believe that the dignity of the Serbian Parliament is badly injured and that the citizens of Serbia are badly injured, only because someone who is perhaps other nationalities is called the ugliest names. So the G17 Plus party will not allow such insults, and I urge all G17s plus to leave the room until the end of today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27554	Here you go, Mr. Krasic's word, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27555	Mr. Mikhailovich, Article 101. I wasn't talking about nationality. I was talking about an ideological part of a person. Ustasha is not a national, it's a criminal. If you're identifying a national group with Ustashas, that's your problem. I don't have that problem. I was very precise, so I said, "Who are the evildoers?" 150,000 people from their Republic of Croatia were expelled in 1990 when Stjepan Mesic arrived. Did anyone give these people protection? Nobody. I don't identify, but criminals and villains are the ones to be called the right name. Besides, just to remind you, that's the lady who said that she was slaughtering the government and moving blood containers, etc.! That's the lady who was looking forward to that happy Albian girl, and she was blowing balloons too! It's a lady who's always on the side of those who are against Serbia!- I'm sorry. She proved it every step of the way. Her party can go some way, and she, as a free shooter and an individual, goes where those who hate Serbia hate Serbian citizens. You will choose her as Deputy Prime Minister! Then we'll leave the session, we won't be there. Once again, if my words were not to be blamed, when I said "stuts", I did not connect with any national group. I know exactly what I'm saying. The close family of the lady in question boasted of participating in the homeland war, where she gave special credit. See if you can find any clues to where her family went.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27556	Mr Zoran Balinovac is the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to explain my absence from this room. I was at the board of directors' meeting that she had for her case a bill on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, and that's why I wasn't here. I look forward to every conversation about law. Here is a series of arbitrary interpretations of the law, that is, the bill and what is not written in it, and that this law destroys the state. When I had the opening statement, I said that this law was, in a way, conditionally implemented by the Law on Civil Servants and by a series of regulations that the Serbian Government passed on the basis of explicit legal authority, under the Law on Officials. It is therefore very difficult to talk about this law and yet to want to be serious in this conversation, without knowing the Law on civil servants, or knowing other laws, other regulations, or regulations for its work. Then of course, you can make fun of everything, and the highest thought and the lowest thought you can mock and you can insult whoever you want, but I am deeply convinced and I will prove that the reason for that ignorance is. This law was written by Mrs Jasmina Damjanovic, who sits here, and me. You know now the name and last name of the law maker. Whether I'm an expert or not, I've never said anything about it. There are people who know I'm not, there are people who might think differently, and that's a totally secondary question, I mean, it doesn't matter to me. I'll just tell you a few words. Here was the talk that the rating system was flat, that the progress within the pay group that is divided into pay grade depends on what, on class, mother-in-law, uncle, etc. There was an attempt to find a skilled communication contact with Nusic, who otherwise wrote a comedy "The People's Messenger". However, there is another problem. The Law on civil servants in Article 84 states that the assessment is determined by the Head of Decision, that the assessment of dissatisfaction, satisfaction, good, stands out, particularly stands out, and that the Government is closer to regulating the criteria for evaluation and evaluation in all state bodies. The government has also adopted this Regulation, and according to this Regulation, the following criteria are assessed: to achieve results, I will not read what results are, independence, creative capacity, entrepreneurship, precision and security, quality of co-operation, and may be additional criteria. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. So everything is to the extent that this is generally possible, everything is based on less or more mathematical operations, so that any stretching based on party or other belongings or any other belonging is simply not possible. If you had in mind that there's this evaluation regulation, I don't suppose you'd be criticizing this law like that. There was also talk of positions and why the situation was not progressing. The positions are those where the person working in a position has special authority regarding the management of the authorities. Therefore, the position is specifically the assistant minister, secretary of the ministry, etc. Since his term is five years then, he cannot objectively advance as a civil servant who is in the executive position, who is not in office. It's the only thing I realized was that it was serious. As for the commentary on the language of the law, there is a whole series of torn quotes that completely misread what the law says, skips what is written, adds what is not written in it, and then, of course, so everything in this world can be funny. I wanted to ask, since I am a professional lawyer, that we continue to talk if we can in any way in some legal or political aspect of this law, but not to distort its content, that we do not represent the citizens of Serbia to write something that is not written in it, and then to criticise what is not written in it because it suits us or pleases our wit or something else. I mean, really, that it's not correct and that we're simply making a mistake among the citizens. Let's talk about the provision, say why some provision is wrong, then I'll try to convince you that it's okay, etc., but it doesn't make sense, and it's really not right for members who don't write here to talk about something that doesn't exist, and then there's a criticism of something that doesn't actually exist here. I'm ready for every legal conversation and I'm asking you to help me with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27558	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those who accused the people and the citizens of Serbia of carrying corpses instead of peaches seem to be some people and nervous, what to do to them, but now that they hear this, they'll have a reason. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come up with very important paper, Mr. Vice President and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, informing you of the following: I have been talking for years about the thieving between Mladjan Dinkic and B92, the disputed contracts that were made, how it was done to harm Serbian citizens. Now I'll read you the next thing. Namely, the National Bank of Yugoslavia concluded a contract with Radio B92 Radio B92 on renting a business space in New Belgrade, ul. AVNOJ boulevard number 64 surfaces 3.474.61 square meters at a price of 1,280,000 dinars per month for a period of 10 years. Now, let me explain to you what a thief this is, obvious. Please, Mr. Balinovac, you're a good lawyer, I know that, we used to work together in the Serbian government and I know you'd be amazed at this contract. Come on, if you don't want to be surprised, how come NBJ as a state institution couple of excellence makes contracts with B92, a private information house. You know who the shareholders of that house are, but unconnected to all of that may have done a good job. But, ladies and gentlemen, look how Dinkic did his job. Since I wasn't lazy to calculate, the square is 4.3 euros per square metre. The average release of exclusive space in New Belgrade is 22m to 28m euros per square metre. Billions of dinars have been lost by the Serbian state, not millions, billions, because it is not a price of 20 euros but 20 euros times 3,500 square meters, so it is 70,000 euros per month, so it is 12m euros, so 10m euros, 10m euros, Mr Balinovac, 10m euros in clean theft, a clean theft of the cost of Serbian citizens. I'm asking you, Mr. Vice President, I don't know who's behind my back anymore, Mr. Balinovac, and what has someone done with the authorities? I've been waiting to get my hands on this contract for a long time, and complete information about it. Now we'll see what the D.A.'s gonna do. Is Dinkic going to jail soon, because he directly damaged the state of Serbia for estimates, somewhere, about eightm euros, and you know this 4.3m euros per square metre, which in two years, as it goes according to monetary nominalism, will be two euros per square metre, therefore, and they did not pay it regularly and they paid it with one year behind. There's a lot more to it. And one more thing for me to get to know these journalists, who pretend like they don't know what's going on and what happened, to get to know them with the results in Bujanovac, because I can see that they won't read it, even though the largest number of voters in Bujanovac came out, and in absolute numbers and proportionally, they don't seem to be interested in the election there alone. They are not interested because the SRS candidate, but also the SRS list, received more than a joint list of nine Serbian parties DS, DSS, G17, the Movement of Serbia, the SPS, New Serbia, the SPO, found some other two parties in Serbia who were together and all of them received three and a half times fewer votes than the SRS, but still, we expect their support in the run-off. It was unsolved, 6,500 to 2,000, what can I tell you? But anyway, I'm counting on their support... (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. I conclude, Mr. Chairman, you're very kind, I expect you, as an honorable man, to intervene for this abuse in our country, for a thief like this that happens in front of your eyes. I'm sure you'll do it. Just to tell you, and I hope that you, Mr. Vice President, and everyone else, will invite, first of all, those citizens of Bujanovac, not only of Serbs, not only of the Roma, but of all those who respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, to go to the elections in the second election round and to vote for a candidate who respects the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which is Svetislav Stojmenović, a candidate for Serbian radicals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-06-0.u27560	I'll just read the notices. The session of the Committee on Transport and Communications will be held at 14:00 hours in the third floor hall, as well as the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly scheduled for Wednesday, 7 June 2006, to be postponed for Thursday, 8 June 2006, starting at 9:00 p.m., with the same agenda. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Because of the measures and activities taken, as a consequence of yesterday's decision, the continuation of this session will be on Thursday, 10:00 p.m. and notice that we will be working on Friday. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to put their cards in the voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 64 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, and therefore, pursuant to Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour.
