ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-08-0.u29628	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record, I find that 240 MPs attend today's session. I inform you that today's special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is attended by: Boris Tadic, President of the Republic; Vojislav Kostunica, President of the Government; His Holiness of the Patriarch of the Serbian Mr. Pavle; Monsignor Stanislav Hočevar, Belgrade Archbishop and Metropolit; Muhamed efendija Jusufspahić, Deputy President of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia; Isak Asiel, rabbi of the Jewish community; Samuel Vrbovski, bishop of the Slovak evangelical Church; Istvan čete Semesic, Bishop of the Reformed Christian Church; Ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Republic of Serbia; Mihalo Rulic, President of the Republic of the Election Commission; Radovan Jelašić, Governor of the National Bank; Academy, President of the Serbian Academy of the Science of the Science and Arts; General of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. Allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on your behalf, all the guests present who I have invited to attend this session. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, I called for another special session on the basis of Article 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Articles 114a and 114b of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to declare the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, on the basis of Article 132, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, based on the proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 231 MP, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 30 September 2006, with a two-thirds majority, unanimously, with 242 votes from the MPs, adopted the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and put it on the republic's referendum to confirm. And to this occasion, I congratulate everyone who recognized that moment. On the basis of Article 133(2), The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and according to a report by the Republic Election Commission since 2 November 2006, which has been delivered to you, a republican referendum confirming the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, declared by rounding the word "DA" 3,521,724 voters. I thank each of these votes individually, because it is a vote given for Serbia and its Constitution. This makes more than half of the total number of eligible citizens who are listed in the voter list, making the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to Article 133, finally adopted. Also, I remind you he's a 25. The law on the referendum and the People's Initiative found that the decision taken in the referendum is mandatory, and that, if citizens declared themselves to confirm the act by a referendum, that act was adopted on the day of the referendum, i.e. on the date of the declaration of that act. Dear People's MPs, distinguished guests, thus, for the first time here in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all the Constitution and the Law established the conditions, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia PR O G L A A V A THE Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which adopted the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 30 September 2006, and finally adopted in the Republic referendum, held on 28 and 29 October 2006. Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I invite you to welcome the constitutional national anthem of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] Hor performs the "God of Justice" anthem. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 134. [[Applause]] The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted. That's why we're going to continue the session, where we're going to discuss the bill tomorrow at 14 o'clock. I'm finishing today's work. Thank you. Good-bye and good-bye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, we will continue the work of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which I called for in order to declare the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to adopt and declare a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 228 MPs. Thank you for your patience and good evening. At the beginning of the session, I also received confirmation on the written request I made on 9 October 2006, which removed all the procedural discrepancies I pointed out, and now I realise that the conditions had been obtained and this act ended the term of office of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, Tomica Milosavljevic and Goran Zivkov. We're moving on to reviewing the agenda points. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )
