ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26395	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we have four important system laws ahead of us today. Three are directly related to the development of the capital market and the fourth, a very important system law, is the Accounting and Audit Act. As you know, of these four -- three draft laws were sent to the assembly procedure last year. For a long time, however, these capital market laws could not enter the procedure without roof law, and this is the Securities Market Act. He was the last to enter the procedure by emergency procedure, in order to enable a united debate, because the capital market law package makes up all three, therefore, and the Securities Market Act, investment funds and the takeover of stock companies. The finance ministry has long worked on these laws for two years, because it is a really important segment of the development of the financial market. The fact is that first, in all transition countries, a reform of the banking system is started, and then a primate is given to the development of the capital market, and that is the case here. It would be better if these laws had been passed before, however, many market participants, many arguments were held in public debates organised with participants in the capital market. We wanted to take a good look at all the experiences of the EU, we consulted on the drafting of these laws and with the World Bank, with domestic representatives of the capital market, and finally came to these comprehensive draft laws. As regards the first draft of the law, it is the Law on the Market of Securities of Values and other financial instruments, it is fully in line with EU directives in this area, as explained by the law and given. Why are we making a whole new law? It's currently being applied, so-called. federal law, because Serbia has not passed appropriate system law in its parliament in this area. This law should ensure greater security and protection of market participants and create an environment for the introduction of innovations in terms of securities trading, as well as new financial instruments. What does this law regulate? He regulates the organised market and divides it into stock exchanges and vanbersan. So both of them, according to our proposal, are organised markets, with the possibility that there can be a stock market and a vanbersan market. It does not give a monopoly, enables competition, but gives the Charter Commission very broad authority to select those who set up the exchanges or organizers of the vanbersan business, so that the Securities Commission is even more important than it has now had. There is a significant increase in the transparency of trade in the capital market, also creating conditions for far more active participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the capital market, and this law allows for the creation of appropriate market competition. I will not go in detail to explain this law, we have nearly 250 members, but I will be available when I hear concrete remarks and suggestions to comment on when MPs present it. The second law here before you is the investment fund law, which we passed in August 2005 in the Government and forwarded to the Assembly. The aim of this law is to make it easy and efficient for citizens to participate in the capital market and make adequate contributions. In fact, investment funds unite and group capital that is then invested in domestic economy and fosters economic development. At this point, citizens only have the ability to save in banks, and then banks lend businesses. We are now opening a small chapter in the development of the financial market by allowing citizens to invest their free money voluntarily in investment funds, investment funds then invest that money in the economy, encourage economic development and bring an appropriate contribution to investment fund members. Of course, as is investment in banks voluntarily, so is investment in investment funds voluntarily. However, the possibility of fostering economic development is expanding. It would also be better if we had this law before, but without this, I say roof law, it wasn't possible to bring it. As regards the third law in the capital market law package, this is the proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies. The most significant newspaper this law adopts, since so far the takeover of companies has been governed by the Securities Market Act, therefore there was no special law on takeover, is that the bid for takeover must be sent to all shareholders at the same price for all actions. In other words, so far there was the possibility that the takeover would be done by making only a certain number of actions, above 25%, it was usually 51% at one price, and then the smaller shareholders were brought into an unequal position and the one who took 51% to blackmail them and to buy their remaining stock at a far lower price. This law also provides for the fact that the same price must be offered to all shareholders for all actions. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, all those who submit an offer to take over will have to offer the same price to all shareholders. This will allow far greater competition and more transparent conditions of competition in the takeover of stock companies, which enables the most efficient protection of small shareholders. A great deal of attention in this law is dedicated to protecting minority shareholders. In a very complete manner, this law regulates market takeover and as a form of change in the ownership structure of stock companies. Once again, I point out, it enables equal participation of competition. This is, therefore, a very short presentation of the most important things in all three laws, their adoption will allow for a new phase in the development of the capital market. We must openly admit that the development of the capital market is at an entirely initial stage. However, this is not usual given the experience of other transition countries, as there is always a development of the capital market in the second phase of the transition. First the banking sector develops, then the capital market. As regards the fourth system law, which is the law on accounting and audit, it is fully in line with European legislation and generally introduces international accounting standards in the practice of accounting reporting. New important institutions, such as the Chamber of Authorised Auditors and the National Accounting Commission, are being introduced, the responsibility of the corporate governance body and the director of bookkeeping and financial reports is being strengthened. So far, only those who have submitted the report, so the accountant, have been responsible for the accuracy of the statements in the reports. Under the new law, responsibility is raised for a director who must sign what his accountant has given him and if a false report of the sanctions is not only borne by an accountant, but also by a director of the firm. Because so far, we've had a lot of cases that the CEOs of the firm actually asked the accountants to give them false reports and then possibly responsibility wouldn't be on the director, but on the accountant. Here the same responsibility applies to the business manager. Also, the law insists on applying international accounting standards and international standards of financial reporting for medium and large legal persons, as well as for banks and other financial organisations. I must say that the Bank Act is already foreseen that banks have a reporting obligation according to international accounting standards, and the Company Act has also made the obligation to introduce these standards. This is one roof law that regulates these things. It also introduces audit obligations for all medium and large enterprises, for banks and other financial organisations, as well as for pension funds. Also, this law prescribes appropriate professional calls from this area, and these are authorised auditors and authorised internal auditors, in accordance with the 8th EU Directive. And finally, in the transitional and final provisions, all acquired professional calls of accountants and auditors under earlier laws are recognised, but there is a obligation in the appropriate procedure of checking knowledge, passing exams and I must say that this law was at a very wide public debate, all representatives of domestic professional associations participated in this public debate, represented different opinions. As a result, the adoption of this law took two years, as it is clear that there are different interests of professional associations. I must say completely that, let's say, the Union of Accountants of Serbia wanted to keep the monopoly, that only they could issue certificates to authorized auditors. We have broken this monopoly here, and there is an opportunity that according to the law and other institutions, as well as colleges, they can be certified to issue such powers. In this way we think we will get far more quality accounting and audit reports which will be the right parameter for the rating of the ratings of certain companies. As the country develops, as the market develops, accounting and audit must gain increasing importance, and this law allows it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26396	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Jovan Todorovic, then Slavoljub Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there are four important laws ahead of us, and I just don't know which one of the proposed laws is more important. It is obvious that practice has shown that new legal solutions need to be reached in certain areas, especially in those that have not been covered so far, and in the value-market area, where we have so far had federal regulations, something has changed in the meantime, but we have not been able to come up with a comprehensive solution in the field of securities markets of value. I will, above all, start from investment funds, or the Investment Funds Act. I think the adoption of such a law is very practical, and I'd say in terms of the state of investment in our economy, and the need for it. We have today the fact that we are poor with investment funds and with the possibility of new investment in our economy, which means that new employment opportunities are reduced, which is the general objective of government policy, as well as the National Assembly. So far, mostly business and commercial banks have provided certain funds based on the savings of citizens and have placed them under certain conditions in the economy, but also in consumption, through credit for the population, to meet a certain level of these general needs of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's new about getting us investment funds? It is new that a large number of citizens who have savings will define themselves or together with their friends and business partners to set up these investment funds. Investment funds, as you can see from the bill, can be opened, closed and private. Open investment funds are those that must have 200 000 euros in founding capital at the start and have no legal personality, but therefore companies to manage these investment funds appear. They are open because all those who have invested certain funds in these investment funds have the right to withdraw those funds at every opportunity and at any time. If they do not wish to do so, they shall be entitled to an appropriate profit based on the investments made by those assets in the so-called so-called ‘. an open investment fund. You also have a closed investment fund that is also established with 200,000 euros, but has a slightly different procedure, because investors in that investment fund do not have the right to withdraw those funds at any time, but according to the legal provisions and rules of the fund. These funds also have their own control bodies. We have a third group of these investment funds, these are private investment funds, where individual founding capital cannot be below 50,000 euros. It is about professional investors and people who have a desire and intent, and of course the interest that they place their free money in this way. It is assumed that several investment funds in the Republic of Serbia will be formed in this way, at least at the beginning and that this activity will be increasingly attractive to the growing number of citizens who have their savings, sometimes in banks, but quite mobilised, even if they are not in banks but at home, as it is said - in straws. It is estimated that at the moment the population of the Republic of Serbia has so many available free funds between three and four billion euros. Indeed, it is economical indemnity not to activate these funds, especially in conditions where there is not enough available funds for investment, and that investments are the main driver of economic development and increased employment. That's why we, as an SPS parliamentary group, will support this law, because we think it should have even been brought at the beginning of this mandate, so that in the meantime we can, not wait for loans from abroad and not wait for any donations or I don't know what other kinds of help from so-called. International communities, we're starting some investment cycle. It is possible that, in future times, the state itself will appear as the founder of individual investment funds, although it is not an intensities of this law, but in any case it seems to me that many who think economically will be more determined to invest in investment funds than to give their funds to any savings in business and commercial banks, as it is known to me, the conditions of business banks are not so favourable, the interest rates on an annual basis do not exceed five percent, and some banks do not even give any interest on foreign savings. Investment funds allow the so-called investment fund to contribute to its own free resources. the financial market, and that there is a significant and significant benefit from this economy. The second law that is very important is the law on the securities market, and I remind you that in time we chose the Securities Commission from values, so we had a bit of a funny situation that the proposings of individual members of the Securities Commission, among other things, pointed out in the candidate biographies that they had a B category laid down as if they were driving a moped, as if at that moment we were choosing honorors, and I'm saying all because I think that the Securities Commission must be independent and independent. It is thus set up in this law, with certain objections to the full independence of the commission being made. I remind you that the proposal for the composition of the Securities Commission, as proposed by the Law, is made by the Government, as well as a proposal for a possible resolution of members of the Securities Commission. It is very important for this authority, since it is only with us that the market of securities is fully reviving and that it is important for someone who does this job to perform in a way that is professional, responsible and competent, with the aim of being independent and responsible. It is also said here that the existing Charter Commission will last until September 2006, and unless a new composition of the Commission can be selected by that time, then the existing Commission will continue to work in the second period, so in 2007, until a new composition of the Securities Commission is chosen. One principle and concrete objection to the term of office of the President and of the individual members of the Commission could be put here. I will talk about this, given that we have submitted several amendments, when the amendments are debated, but at this point just to remind myself that we have proposed that, let's say, the President of the Commission be elected for five years, that one member of the Commission be elected for four years, the other for three years, the third for two, etc., in order to ensure continuity in the work of the Commission and that, under certain conditions, we may be able to make timely changes to the members of the Securities Commission without distorting continuity in the functioning of the securities market from the value and the Commission itself, as an independent body. There is also one question that is not to this extent controversial, if we have the right explanation, and I think the people of the ministry, as legislators of this law, have it, and that's the question -- who can be the founder of the stock exchange. The law states that, among other things, stockholders can be physically domestic and foreign. Those who are opponents of the variant say – why would the natural persons now be the founders of the stock exchange, if they can already register as legal persons, and as such appear with a certain amount of 1m euros as stockholders and meet the relevant conditions. I think the explanation of the Ministry's people is that in some way it's logical and excessive, that these natural persons will be checked in terms of quality and business capacity, past business activity, so congratulations in life and in work, and therefore, with very strict criteria, they will identify which individuals can be the founders of the stock exchange. So we need such a comprehensive law, there could be no change in the text better than as proposed. The third law is the Act on the takeover of stock companies. He sometimes found himself in European practice, and also with us, with his provisions under the Charter of Values Act. Here, the proposal has been defined just as most EU countries are going to pass a special law on the takeover of stock companies. I assume that you have read the explanation and have seen that it has not been easy for Europe, which has been highly developed in this respect, to make such a decision and these negotiations have lasted, as I recall, even for 14 years to come to a directive that has been in force since December 2003, in which everyone in the EU is obliged to make such laws on the takeover of stock companies. This is now and here, given that we want to join the EU and that we want to bring our legislation and regulations in line with EU standards, including those directives. The characteristics are, for example, members of the 9th and 11th of those directives, which say that those who are shareholders in these companies, little I assure, do not have the right to take action against those who intend to take over these stock companies without the consent of shareholders. Point 11 of that directive states that those who intend to take over a particular company do not have an obligation to respect something that would prevent them from taking over. All of this has its own logic, especially as it said in the directive that these provisions of points 9 and 11 are applied in a optional way as an option. What matters to me is that, I think, this is how you achieve the full protection of small shareholders, which was a burning problem. Let's just say, a few examples in the last few years when we've had these situations on the stock market, how are the small shareholders being protected? They're protected by the fact that whoever wants to take over some stock company has to do it in public. This means publicly that it must first advertise the intention of wanting to take over a certain AD, and under two, when adverts the intention then it must also advertise the conditions under which the AD takes over, i.e. buying actions and so that the price of action is the same for both large and small shareholders. It is the essence of this law, that the price is the same for both large and small shareholders. However, there are exceptions, but not in this part, but in that part of what cannot be taken on the purchase of actions, which are, for example, actions of small shareholders that appear on the market together with actions of the Action Fund and some other actions that have emerged based on the actions of the business banks, and based on the commitments of the federal state transferred to the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I underline, it is very important to ensure that small and large shareholders are fully equal and that we do not have this so-called mix-up, that in one way negotiate with large shareholders and promise one price, and that using the position of a small shareholder that is basically unfavourable, there offers a lower price for taking over these ADs, i.e. to buy shares. We couldn't stand any amendments here. I have not seen the need for such a thing, because this part is fully decorated, strengthens the responsibility of all market participants and those who want to take over certain ADs, as well as those who will take over, thereby in some way increasing responsibility and requiring full loyalty of existing management and management of current ADs to their businesses, and what they will say – to shareholders. Finally, when it comes to the Accounting Act, it's an important law, and so far we've had who knows how much change and this matter is being solved on a federal level, so something's been applied, and something's not, etc. We are now in a position to see a comprehensive bill, and I must say, there has been this expert debate, but it is well and disputed by precisely those who work most in accounting and audit affairs. Mr. Minister mentioned: a federal accountant, and I have to admit, when I read the objections of the Union of Accountants, I thought - they're right accountants. When I read the argument of the Government, or the promoter, then I thought – and those accountants were not so right. However, we have defined ourselves to submit several amendments to the members of this bill, and above all in a good intention to correct the text of this law. For example, the question of the obligation to audit legal persons. You have heard, and so it says in the law, that medium and large enterprises are obliged to revise their accounting statements. The final accounts, therefore, are submitted once a year – December 31st, or 31st, within 60 days, and as it will say by February 28th, as has been the case so far. The question has been raised here – whether the medium-sized enterprises are subject to the audit obligation and whether they should be subject to the obligation, especially since the definition of these medium-sized enterprises, at least in this law, is such that the medium-sized undertaking represents that enterprise that averages between 50 and 250 workers. The diapazone, between 50 and 250, is a total annual income of between 2.5m and 5m euros, so that the value of the assets is between one and fivem euros at the end of the business year. When it is below those values, it falls under the category of small enterprises and has no obligation to revise the accounts, and when it is above, it falls within the category of large enterprises and is understood to continue to have that obligation. The issue of internal audit has also been opened. I admit, I didn't understand until the end, and later I consulted the Ministry people, and I understood that internal audit is not something that is imperative, necessarily, but possible. That's what significantly changes my attitude towards internal audit. Those who consider it necessary to increase legality and discipline in the management of accounting statements and show business results, including balance sheet, etc. and other supplementary annexes shall be defined as including internal audit. If it's going to be someone from the firm, it's not the most important thing, but even after internal audits, they're subject to that so-called. an external audit which may detect irregularities in the work of an internal auditor. It is important that everything is brought about by respecting the laws, and by respecting the laws, we respect the environment in which we live and allow all those living from the budget to live in a way suitable for this economic situation. The question is, who can be the auditor? We have been given explanations that those who have the calling of auditors will not lose those titles except those who will have to confirm during some period of one year their titles, or licenses to conduct the audit. Accountants have also made an observation that, say, an accountant in the company can be someone who doesn't have the right school equipment. The logic of things requires that one who will be responsible for the business of the company, which is the management and the director, will by no means leave accounting business to someone who does not know and who will not be able to work in accordance with the law. Now that I don't elaborate further on the details, there'll be times when they're amendments. In any case, it is important that our business is in line with international accounting standards, because we need it for our business with Europe. They understand their standards. If we don't accept their standards, they don't understand us and they don't understand our real economic position when they want to get into business with us. Also, in the end, one very practical question, and that is the question: to whom should we present our final accounts. Under the law, the National Bank of Serbia was also told, and according to the Company Act, final accounts and other reports are required to be handed over to the Agency for Economic Registers. We now have a situation that is objective – the Agency for Business Registers is not qualified enough to do these jobs until the end. The National Bank is, and it is necessary to do this overall social statistics, because there is no one else to run that statistics, but yet from the point of view of the legal person, it is not logical to teach in two places. I believe that this thing can be overcome by changing in due course the provision that obliges us to submit our reports to the Agency for Economic Registers. Again, there is also a reason to give it up because foreign partners could be informed through that register of our quality and our willingness and our ability to do business with them. I think this is a bit of a circuit that can be solved, it doesn't have to be solved today by this law, but some practical change could happen. All in all, so much for these 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26398	The word is Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26399	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, there are four system laws before us that will certainly allow the state of Serbia to have a very clear regulation which so far, we must admit, has been quite confusing to the participants in the financial market, and we also had legislation without these laws, because it has not allowed all citizens to be in the appropriate way, as much as they wish, participants. So these laws make it possible, with the kind of control and the rules that are prescribed, and that's explained by my predecessor, and that's what I mean by the Accounting and Audit Act, that through the required law comes with new rules, with rules that are prescribed by international accounting standards, but rules that we'll all have to follow. So that's certainly commendable. What is not commendable, when we talk about these laws, is the fact that they come, to me even too late. When we talk about the Investment Funds Act, I feel like we're telling a post-festum story. Personally, not only me, but many people who have advocated not only democratic but also market changes in our society, I expected that immediately after the Privatisation Act, a law on investment funds will be passed that will enable, not only those tycoons from the JUL era with good connections to be the main participants in privatisation affairs, but also ordinary citizens to be participants and to bring out their straws, so that they compete, not only in what they have, but also in what they know. Unfortunately, this was neither the government of Zoran Djindjic nor the government of Zoran Zivkovic, nor the current government made it possible in time. We talked during the 2003 campaign about the need to democratisation in the right way, to say, that privatisation market, but unfortunately, that didn't happen, and the chief critic of privatisation, Dragan Marsican, remember that it just went away because he confronted many people who cheered and dressed at that time in the area of privatisation. We can talk, I can see some MPs laughing at my words, but believe me, I speak very honestly, and I have no reason to raise neither the Minister nor the Government, regardless of our unreserved support from the DSS and these bill proposals and the Government, there is simply no better at this point. What is important is what these laws will bring us. Mr. Todorovic has well noticed about the investment funds law that exactly do what is necessary, with the conclusion: heard from the minister, and that it is a little late. It's never too late. I hope that we ordinary citizens will succeed at least part of the benefits of these laws during this last period of privatisation. As far as the Securities Market Act is concerned, the minister has asked us to talk a little bit and more specifically, not just in principle. I will ask the minister immediately, after they have submitted amendments that in some way protect the Commission's independence. Since we didn't have a Finance Committee, I am deeply interested in the Ministry's position on the amendments made. In part, it seems to me that the law ignores the fundamental need for this regulatory body, which is called the Securities Commission, to be independent and fully under parliamentary control. I am more than convinced that MPs in parliament are rather prepared to retain that right to be the fundamental controllers of that regulatory body, than they are willing to do, as the bill itself has stated here, to pass it on to the Ministry. I don't think it would be a bad idea to discuss this in detail on the Finance Committee, because there are indications that the World Bank is not quite willing to support such legal projects, where parliamentary control is limited and I'm afraid that we can complicate our complicated international relations with financial institutions anyway. What I am also interested in is contained in the already submitted amendments, which is the level of censorship for the organizers of the stock market or of the vanbersan business. I think the proposed price of 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent is almost zero, and for the value that will be on the stock market, I think it's certainly not bad that the censorship is raised multiplely, so let's say for three million, as the amendments are proposed. It seems to me that it would not be harmful, but would condition the seriousness of the stock market and the vanbersan business. As for the law on takeover, let me put it this way, we are witnessing, especially us, members of the Privatisation Committee, how one legal void made it impossible for us to have the right order and the right moves in the field of takeover. This protection of minority shareholders, but we can also say majority shareholders, overly necessary, the law clearly regulates that area and we will no longer have those jobs that will remain in question forever. I mean taking action "The Book" and some other businesses, because these jobs had a big echo in the public, regardless of the good will and the Commission and the representatives of the Republic Government to do it the best and in a fair way. There's still that suspicion. It came from legal voids, not because it was not a good will to get rid of it in the right way. The DSS will vote for these laws. We'll talk to the Minister about accepting some amendments that have already been delivered. I hope the minister hears about these remarks. I would ask not only the Ministry of Finance, which is one of the most active ministries in this transition age, but also the Assembly itself, and all MPs, to allow some laws that have waited very long for the agenda, because that is one of the remarks that we regularly hear from critics of the Republic government and at all the current authorities, which is to enable this assembly to work more quickly and efficiently. I think that burying such important laws with meaningless amendments and presenting ourselves here as some kind of expert, although we can say freely for this area, almost no experts from the Faculty of Economics, because we weren't a free market country and we don't have enough experience in these areas, stopping the transition in this area is unnecessary and very expensive. There is not only the responsibility of the executive government, but also of parliament, but not only of the ruling majority, but there is also the responsibility of the opposition, which only makes criticisms come out, endures pointless amendments, and in fact offers nothing concrete. I hope that, even if these are important areas, we'll all be more constructive. Mr. Chairman, I used the first ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26400	We've already recorded that. When you have a chance under the Rules of Procedure, you'll get a word in. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26401	To answer this question, regarding the status of the Securities Commission. We suggested to the government, about status, a different solution than you have here in law. So, in the original proposal of the Ministry of Finance, we proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia the status of the Commission which we considered appropriate, and then the government's legislation, specifically Mr Balinovac and his associates, said: we have a legal problem, I am not a lawyer, and therefore I leave it to the lawyers in the Assembly to think about and decide, the Commission's status is not listed in the Constitution of Serbia. So the current Constitution of Serbia does not know the concept of the Securities Commission. This is the first problem, which is why the Commission cannot be treated as fully independent of the government until the end. We don't want the Commission to be dependent on the government. We asked what was the solution then, and they said: The solution is as we gave for other regulatory bodies. The government's legislation has literally provided solutions for other regulatory bodies. What are our limits? The ministry law prescribes the ministry's jurisdiction over certain segments. In particular, under the Ministry Act, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the capital and securities market of value. However, the Law on State Administration provides for the possibility for a particular ministry to entrust tasks with special agencies, independent regulatory bodies and the like. The Securities Commission is a de facto very important independent regulatory body and therefore they have proposed to us, and we have adopted as the only possible solution that is in accordance with the Law on State Administration and the current Constitution of Serbia, to entrust matters to the Securities Commission. I personally don't like that formula either. The lawyers tell me that it is not possible until it is introduced as a constitutional category of the Securities Commission. So it is obvious that, in this sense, after the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia, where the Securities Commission as a constitutional category must be introduced, I support it, there will be a change of that part of the law. So they will no longer trust jobs by the ministry, but the Commission will have it as constitutional jurisdiction. Otherwise, it does not stand, if anyone has any objection, that the Commission has been deprived of independence by this law, because Article 235, which determines the principle of work, correctly states that the President and the members of the Commission, when making decisions, cannot question their independence, nor does the Commission's independence. The following position: "It is forbidden for any person, body and organisation to take any action that affects the independence in the work and decision of the Commission and any member thereof", means including the Government and any ministry; then, "It is forbidden for any person, body or organisation to take the tasks provided for by law as the power of the Commission, if the law is not different"; then, "The Commission elects and resolves the Assembly". Who will propose to the members of the Commission whether the Government or the competent assembly committee, I would like to tell you immediately, for us in the Ministry of Finance, is completely irrelevant. As the Assembly decides, we will accept. If there are any amendments that give more authority to the Assembly for the election of members, we will accept that. So we don't have any problem with that. This solution here has been extorted by our legislation. Otherwise, it was not originally contained in our proposal, because the problem that the current Law on the Market of Securities of Value was federal and it gave for one degree higher authority, but the Serbian Constitution does not know this institution and the most massive degree of independence could be the same treatment as the treatment of any other independent regulatory body. So, as far as I'm concerned, as an authorised promoter, I will accept any proposal that increases the independence of the Securities Commission, which the lawyers in the Assembly say is possible, and if there is any limit, then, after the Constitution, whoever is the finance minister should change that part about the Commission's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26402	Do any of the presidents, or representatives, want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. The first has the word National MP Milka Silaev, G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26403	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as you know and see, this is a very important set of laws from the capital market for which the G17 plus party will normally vote. I've defined the seven stories about the law that was the most nutty, clearest for me, and that's the Investment Funds Act. I wanted to see how it was in the world about investment funds. Investment funds or, as the English say, mutual funds are one of the most popular ways to invest money, say in Canada. Investment funds can most easily be defined as – in one place raised money from a larger number of people, investors who have a common goal of pooling money with other investors and have a higher value. Here are some of them. First, what's the advantage? A variety when you invest on your own. It is very difficult and it takes a lot of money to invest in a large number of different investments, thereby reducing the potential risk over a long period of time. By investing in funds, i.e. By buying its components (unit) you become owners of a single piece, i.e. the parts of each paper that is in the portfolio of the fund, and sometimes it is even 100%. The second advantage of investment funds is professional investment management. How money from the fund is invested is decided by financial experts, professional managers. So every dollar is invested in the fund, and for investment in investment funds it can go up to $25 and $30. I took a Canadian example, because in my day it was a poor country like us, and it's not anymore, so as a majority of optimists, I think we're going that way. There's been an investment in the knowledge and experience of the fund manager. The third major advantage of investment in funds is liquidity. Your money is never captured, so part of the investment can be sold, and that's how money can grow. Investment in funds also carries a certain risk, and that risk runs from a low to a very high level and depends primarily on the type of fund. That is why it is very important to talk to a professional from this area before the start of investment in funds. On this occasion, you can learn all relevant information about investment in funds and based on an analysis of several situations and your investment and investment goals, the financial advisor will give you the most appropriate proposal of potential funds. Generally speaking, there are several categories, i.e. kind of funds. The first group is made of "income" funds, these are funds for profit, low-risk funds. Money for these funds enters investments of a type of short-term securities of value, bonds issued at a state or province level, international bonds, loans, as the name itself says, funds from this group pay their investors a "income" in regular time terms "equities funds". A group of funds, which are these, are funds based on stock companies. This is a fairly broad group and there are subgroups within it. So there's a subgroup of distributions based on territory, so they're American funds, Canadian, European, Far East funds. Winning, that's the growth of the stakes in these funds. It's seen through the so-called so-called. Capital gain. At times, this kind of fund can split profits for its investors in the form of dividends. "Growth," they're growing funds. This group separates funds with this name. It's about funds that invest money primarily in small and medium-sized companies and that can make potentially bigger profits. Of course, it's linked to a potentially higher risk. Balanced funds, it's a special group of funds in which you can put so-called funds. "essential location" funds. From this group they contain both "income" and "equities" funds, so the risk sharing and the distribution of potential earnings is greater than the rest. As a good solution, I wanted to see how things are in the world, because we know very little about this area, and I was particularly interested in this area, so I analyzed it a little bit. As a good solution for investors, funds invested in small companies have also been shown. Since they recorded about 12% last year, they were funds that invested in precious metals and real estate, and they also made high yields. With this proposal for a law on investment funds, the government has shown its intention to resolve this area at last. However, due to nearly four years of hesitation to legally regulate this collective investment institution remained a dilemma whether the state did not or could not come up with game rules for a new part of the market capital in Serbia, although it would be desirable if the law had been passed earlier. Which is why, I'll explain, it wasn't done or it was waiting to create new conditions for this job to end. Part of the state administration, which has now managed to propose legislation, is therefore seeking to construct legal order on the financial market. There's a reason for that. For example, Serbia is the only country in the transition that has not regulated the business of investment funds. Then, foreign funds have already bought the best companies here, with a weaker legal foothold, without any insight from the state and the businessmen into its financial power. During that time, domestic economy was denied the investment capital of citizens, which was estimated at around three billion euros, and the population had a chance to gain from the turnover of this money. If it's a competition for banks, it's a question. Foreign funds, organised as representations or enterprises, purchased Serbian firms or provided space for it with existing legislation, and they organised their practice under the regulation. When the Investment Funds Act is passed, foreign and domestic companies operating as funds will have to register and comply with their provisions. A bigger dilemma than why the first foreign funds were given a chance in Serbia is that citizens who lost confidence in banks three or four years ago would trust their money to a new, completely unknown institution. Thus, it remains unclear whether the creators of the capital market have deliberately delayed the proper foundation of investment funds until the banking system is settled and citizens begin to trust the banking system and banks. In any case, the adoption of the law is an obligation to join the EU. In investment funds, the point is to develop competition, and whether or not the bank will be turned, it can only show the market. As it took time for citizens to trust the banks again, it is now essential that people in their minds mature ideas and different ways of doing business and a different attitude towards money, i.e. to raise the culture of investment in the population. It's a big problem and probably time will do its part. Such a culture has just begun to develop, as a need to invest in voluntary pension funds and such a law has been passed. Banks have an individual relationship with their clients and do not take them to the financial market as participants. Investment funds will give the population the opportunity to make more contributions than bank interest, but also to put their stakes at greater risk. What does the law offer? The creator of the law proposes three types of investment funds: open, closed and private. Each of them has a job to collect and invest their members' money. The aim is to generate income and reduce the risk of investment. The funds are managed by management companies, organised as companies, while all accounts are run by the bank's castors. Companies can establish domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, except for Serbian companies with majority social and state capital, as well as related persons. This last one has been excluded from banks and insurance houses. The minimum guaranteeing the role of the company that set up the open and closed fund has been defined. The Open Fund has no legal personality, it is organised and managed by the company, and operates on the principle of raising money through the issuance and purchase of investment units. All assets of the Fund are owned by its members, and the value of investment units is determined daily and published in the media. The development of this fund is estimated to be the most desirable in Serbia, as it will allow a large number of citizens who do not have much money or knowledge of developments in the financial market to use professional services. According to the letter of the bill, the closed fund should be a legal person who collects money by selling shares through a public offering. It shall be established and managed by the company and the value of the assets shall be determined at least once a month and made public. In the world, the tendency to reduce the participation of these funds in the capital market is noticeable, although as is the case with private expansion funds and their specialised funds, such as real estate and investment in companies that later sell on the stock market, which is evident in the area of telecommunications. "Vodafone" – buying, selling, buying, selling and making profits. Closed investment funds have known founders who place once the capital raised. Unlike them, open funds often have several hundred anonymous investors who can spend much better money through them because they get bigger dividends than when they put their money in the bank at interest. Private funds are legal entities organised as a limited liability company and their business is mainly based on the Business Society Act. As far as the Investment Funds Act is concerned, they are only sketched, so they are given the freest form of organization and business. For example, they are not subject to rigorous provisions on the issue and take of work permits, on the limits and investment of money and on their availability; on the determination of contributions, on the issue of prospectuses, on marketing; on the consequences they have in business and may be subject to unlimited borrowing. Private funds are managed by society, and the minimum stake is also defined. The reason for the wide field is to give professional investors the opportunity to play on the Serbian market with their own responsibility. Members of the Fund, shareholders, are defined by law as legal and natural persons whose name registers the actions, i.e. investment units or shares. The funds turn the members' money around by investing in securities of value, the share of partner companies with limited responsibility, as well as in real estate in Serbia's territory. The law is made up of respect for the most developed rules of the game in the world, is not a copy of any particular one, it is adapted to the degree of development of our market. Under his provisions, funds, companies already operating as investment funds are expected to be registered first. G17 Plus will normally vote for this law and I can tell you that although I am an engineer, the law has been very clear, pitting and I think it is very useful for the Serbian capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26404	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26405	Ladies and gentlemen, I could not agree with an authorised representative of the Government, when these four, or three laws are in the procedure: the Act on Action Society, the Law on Investment Funds and the Law on the Market of Papers and other financial instruments. Apparently, for two years, it took the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to write these three laws, and so far, in this assembly, by this government, we have had as much as four amendments and additions to the Charter of Values Act. What's the problem with this law? The problem is that, when it comes to the World Bank, there is some resistance to this kind of solution to the securities market and, as far as we know, soon their representatives should visit Belgrade, so suddenly this session of the Assembly is scheduled on Sunday, April 30th, ahead of a state holiday, with some deadlines for submitting amendments and documentation that is quite extensive to be studied, and the aim is just to vote this law before the representatives of international banks visit. Now, all three laws were written by probably one man, one person, through all three laws going through the same mistakes in definitions, through all three laws there is a certain conflict of interest in the same way, so we can say that it could essentially be one law, although with some 40 or 50 more members than this proposal and that, as such, it could be proposed to the MPs. It is seen by this, say, that often when the Committee on Papers of the value of issuing certain consent, work permits, etc. The person must be, as the Commission, or the Proposer, says – reliable and similar. I don't know what the proposer meant by that, what it means by that, that's a very broad term. So that term goes through all three bill proposals, so we have reason and based on this fact, that we suspect that one man wrote these laws. What does the Charter Act have to offer on the market? The law should provide for the opening of a public, equal, economically efficient market, organised in such a way as to protect investors and other participants in the securities market from value. There are no such provisions in this law. Not only do market participants not have equality, but the promoter is knowingly giving priority to certain groups that participate in the market, and this is precisely the part that concerns state charters, i.e. when the state purchases securities of value. You can see that in article 54. The bill, which says: "Without the approval of a prospectus for the issue of securities of value, issue and offer of securities of value to previously known customers can be made: 1) to the Republic of Serbia; 2) to the National Bank of Serbia, 3) to professional investors. Now, this term "professional investor" is very interesting. This is regulated in Article 2, item 1, point 10) "A professional investor is a legal person who, due to the type of activity, can assess the importance of future investment in securities of value or other financial instruments." A very broad concept of what is meant by a professional investor. So, by this definition, a professional investor can be a bank. And what are our experiences when it comes to banks that are involved in the securities market? So very unfavourable, especially when it comes to how the old foreign exchange bond was sold, or bought, who was doing through the National Bank emissions to citizens, who bought those bonds and who was the most profitable. It's the most profitable National Savings Bank. The National Savings Centre was then reportedly owned by the state, however, already owned by two speculators, Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic. That's why we have a situation so that we don't trust the promoter who took part and at that time exercised power, that this law will be properly implemented. When you see it, we can move on. When it comes to the issue of a prospectus, means, and whoever buys simply doesn't know what he buys, buys on the basis of some oral or written agreement, but the true value and characteristics of what he buys don't exist. Such securities can be purchased by the National Bank and the Republic of Serbia. Now let's see what it looks like when it comes to an organised market. It's said in Article 62. – "The securities of value can be traded outside the regulated market if the purchase offer is sold without public advertising and if: To return to Article 2, it can also be banks. On the basis of the proposal, can all three of these laws be traded on the domestic securities market without the value of the paper being expressed in foreign currencies? Yes, it was allowed by the legislator, that our domestic participants on the participation of securities of value among themselves trade charters of values of their origin in a foreign currency. And here, on the other hand, it is forbidden for all other actions to do so and they have to work exclusively in dinar value. I understand when foreign securities are of value, I understand when foreign investors are, but why when it comes to domestics? So the National Bank and the Republic of Serbia can also issue records of values outside the organised market to banks, so to professional investors. Mr. Minister, does anyone have anything nicer to buy such securities of value, especially if they don't go to the game, see who's really a quality investor and who wants to buy it, of course with some of their own interest, but is given the opportunity to do it in a smaller circle of people. What you'll do better, the provisions in the law, you're close to the authorities, the National Bank, the Republic of Serbia, you don't go to advertising, there's no prospectus, you buy securities of value, you have a foreign exchange clause, and you charge interest from the state. No wonder, Mr. Minister, because the real creator of this law is Mr. Mališić, your advisor or deputy, and I think he's now working at the Raiffeisen Bank. So, as long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance are going to write certain laws for the sake of the interest of individuals who will be rich in various ways, and the most interesting way to gain enormous wealth is no longer smuggling, now banks and the market for securities are of value. I'll use the other ten minutes later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26406	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26407	Just to inform the public, Mr. Mališić, whom you mention, was an assistant for the securities market during my predecessor, Mr. Djelic. He was working on amendments to the Securities Market Act. I've been at the Ministry for over a year and a half, and that man hasn't touched a single letter about this law at all. Here is Mrs. Sanja Saric, who is head of the securities market, she was leader of the team, along with Goran Angelic and a whole team of young people working on it. Just for information, and we'll talk about the details when they come up for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26408	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think a lot of time has been spent on some laws that are less important than the set of these laws that are on the agenda today. It is very difficult to classify the laws of importance or less, but a set of four laws that are on the agenda: on the market of securities of value, investment funds, taking over of stock companies and on audits and accounting, regulating the capital market and capital development, something that is important and necessary to intensify the economic process, both business and capital market processes, increasing the number of jobs and at all calming social tensions in society. First, when we talk about audit and accounting, this area will soon be defined by introducing a review obligation for all large and medium-sized enterprises. Also, the question of who can be an auditor, i.e. accountants, and in the extreme sense, is regulated, I think that by adopting this law, it will increase the legality and discipline of our capital market, as well as in the work of large and medium-sized enterprises that make up most of our economic system, which is good. As for the Act on the takeover of stock companies, at last five years after the start of the privatisation process, the takeover procedure of the companies is normalised. So far we've had a situation similar to that in some surrounding states that it's enough to take over 50 percent of one company plus one share, so you get most of the management and supervisory authorities of companies and then you can do whatever you want. This led to a series of negative consequences, leading to members of the Ministry of the Interior or courts having to solve the situations that were emerging. Most owners very easily, very comfortablely knocked down the price of shares of companies that took over and thus came to the rest of the capital, so 49 percent, or in some cases more at ridiculous prices, more than the actual value of the company. By regulating this procedure, at last everyone is obliged first to deliver a letter of intent, namely to announce his intention to buy actions of certain enterprises and others, to publish the conditions under which he wants to take over a company. It prevents manipulation, prevents discrimination against minority shareholders, protects minority shareholders or individuals who have a small number of shares in their ownership, and perhaps even more importantly introduces the principle of equality of competition. If you make the best offer for 100% of the company's capital, it will be able to buy certain shares. The shareholders themselves are left with whether they want to accept it or not. When we talk about the Securities Market Act, this law defines an organised market, be it stock market or vanberzan, which I think is very important, and this is the beginning of a stock exchange system organisation in Serbia in a manner worthy of parliamentary democracies and developed markets, which at some later stage, hopefully, will lead to the categorisation of stock exchanges in our country in a way that markets are categorized in all countries around the world. It will also boost and boost competition in the stock market, which is necessary. It's not good for the state to regulate this area with its sanctions mechanisms. It is much better to compete with each other because only in one game regulated under the law and other normative acts Serbia can get a stock exchange that will be a regional leader. I'm not insinuating that we can have a Belgrade stock market with traffic like the London Stock Exchange or some other, but I think that Serbia can get a stock market within a reasonable timeframe, which, by its size, as well as capital holders who will attract it, will be a regional leader. This is the first step in that. It is necessary to regulate the area normally and create an ambience in order to increase stock exchanges from year to year. The most important law of these four is the Investment Funds Act. Unfortunately, this law is getting a lot late. For some countries in the environment, even ten years late when we talk about investment funds, whether they're closed or open, it's completely irrelevant. A double benefit is from investment funds that will be formed under the letter of this law. First, on the one hand, we'll have a more active and dynamic economic picture after their establishment. Second, we'll have bigger citizens' incomes. This is a law after which every man in Serbia can feel more money in his pocket by limiting citizens to three options so that they can place some of their savings, excess family budgets or excess capital that they have. They could've saved in banks. Effective interest in Serbia's savings banks is 3 to 5% today, and in some countries in the environment perhaps even smaller. They could buy individual stock on the stock market, which in theory is possible, and in practice really hard to implement, especially when it comes to large enterprises, and we have several of those whose annual growth is 10%, so you can count on your annual dividend to be twice as big as the interest in the bank. They could invest in foreign investment funds, which in Serbia was few who did. I don't think we even have that statistical data about how many people it was and how much it worked. Investment funds will surely bring faster insemination of capital, and the income from the money that you put into the investment fund will certainly be greater than many dividends that are now current, especially if we are talking about large companies that are on the market. According to what has been done in other countries, I expect that the rate of some return on capital can go over 10% a year in this first period. I say, in the first period, because on the other hand, we're going to have investment funds that will invest in profitable activities in those economic operators that are dealing with the production of certain deficit goods on our market, what is the subject of imports at this point. However, over time as the number of investment funds increases, it is certain that it will be much more committed to strategic development, strategic planning and will start investing in low-accumulated industries and businesses, where it takes 20 to 30 years to recover capital. It's just that the market is gonna make them do it. I repeat, there's no need for the state or the law to make them do something like that. Investment funds will soon regulate all mechanisms. I mean, again consistent with experience from other countries, for the next three or four years. In all laws and in their explanation, certain European directives are mentioned, which are why these laws are adopted. I would like to say that we are neither doing this because of these European directives nor because of the European Union, but because of ourselves. These are, in fact, the laws through which it is best to explain why European integration is needed, why we need to apply some European principles in European legislation. Serbia is a limited capital market. That is why Serbia cannot live as an island isolated from the world. It must also interact with countries from the environment and with large countries and large markets and manufacturers. I wish Serbia was much bigger and that we are 100 or 120 million, that we have a much bigger gross social product, so that in this European or world game we can dictate the terms of the game ourselves. Unfortunately, we are as big and as many of us as we are – so many of us, with the economic development that we have. If we want to have an exchange with the world, if we want to increase that exchange, to export more, to be present first in the markets in the environment, and then in the markets of developed countries, we need to standardise our procedures and laws as all other countries have done. I think that this prevents various manipulations that have been happening in the capital market so far. The legality is ensured and, in the end, perhaps most importantly, capital is protected both by domestic and foreign investors coming to our market. Therefore, in principle, the DSS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26410	The word has a folk MP Sreto Peric, followed by Velimir Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this session of the National Assembly, we have four, I would say, very important legal acts, important by name and by what they should regulate. The MPs of the SRS don't mind the regulation of this matter. However, the way this is foreseen in these proposals is a little suspicious and it will not be as one speaker said that we should not take care of what the European Union says and what the directives and regulations require. It is not disputed to be so, surely, but it should be borne in mind that when we regulate a particular area regarding the life and work of Serbian citizens, it must be applied to the conditions in which we live and in which we work. The first is the draft law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments. Someone once again said that a number of amendments were submitted here without knowing enough about that matter. Right, this material that needs to be regulated and defined by legal proposals is unknown in our capital market or is known to a lesser extent. The MPs of the SRS used the experience of people who, as far as possible, had mastered this matter well in our terms. Therefore, a number of amendments had to be submitted in order to improve and regulate this, but you saw that the minister himself said he had a dilemma with the Securities Commission as well as in how to regulate and how to allow for greater independence, or independence of the Commission. Then, the Bill on Investment Funds, on some insurance investment funds, we already spoke at one of the previous sessions of this assembly. In a certain way, the introduction of these investment funds into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia was indicated. Some new solutions are now being offered here, but it is said by one of your friends who supports the transition to Serbia and that the law, regardless of which area it regulates, cannot in itself do any good to the citizens of Serbia unless it is applied further. Serbian citizens expected those companies sold and privatised in the privatisation process to start performing their basic function and to improve the standard of living of Serbian citizens. This did not occur, namely, lack of control among privatised firms that should have significantly triggered economic growth in the Republic of Serbia. That, unfortunately, has not been done until today. It would be the best basis and the best environment for creating better conditions and better life in the Republic of Serbia. Then, the proposal for a law on the takeover of AD, it is likely that this law would better, in the opinion of the Minister, regulate the capital market or in privatising still highly profitable public enterprises that are ahead in the coming period, make use of and include those related to the finance ministry in a better and more useful way. Then, the Accounting and Audit Act, a law on which Serbian accountants have many objections. Someone said, when he had an analysis of Serbia's accountant's remarks, it seemed to him that they were very important and important, and later when the minister gave some arguments, that these remarks were not so important. We in the SRS believe that the remarks made by Serbia's accountants, which is a professional association of people who have mostly spent most of the working century in the economy and have enormous experience in this area. The main objections in the law are that it defines the area of accounting very superficially and in a vague and inaccurate way, while it is conducting the area of audit. There's no question that all these topics are being arranged. It is said that the most applies to medium and large enterprises, but in several provisions, Article 2 of this law also treats small businesses and entrepreneurs equally as large and medium-sized enterprises. I don't know if the minister or anyone from the Treasury has looked at and seen who our entrepreneurs are. These are mostly small shops that employ one worker, or operator, possibly one or two other workers and a large number of craftsmen. But the shops are not opened for reasons that the economic environment has arrived at that level that many want to start their own shop to increase profits or income that is otherwise possible to earn in Serbia, but because they do not have employment opportunities. You know that about a million unemployed in Serbia and you can't see any chance, no accelerated process that would allow employment, because people have formed small businesses and now for these small actions besides high sentences, if it isn't accidentally pointed out at the door: pull-ups, jails, what is in front of these shops is also an obligation to define the way books are run by the general act. The SRS MPs and the entire SRS are for everything to be defined, all that is possible to return from the gray zone to normal flows, but we are also about to simplify the procedure during administration. It is certain that in these small shops, even two hours a day should be spent making reports and certain actions that have nothing to do with income. The right to tell you, given that I have looked at the reports that these small businesses are doing, they have no meaning for the Ministry of Finance, or for any institution that controls the work of these companies, or small enterprises, and it is simply an impression that the Ministry of Finance in this way wants the poor citizens of Serbia to take away that small part of the work they do and do. Because the penalties provided for, we agree that any procedure that would contribute to the settlement of the normal market, the withdrawal from the gray economy zone, should be punished, but should take into account the conditions in which these laws are adopted, to which they apply, and what effects will be in the event of some minor errors. These legal regulations, i.e. legal solutions, do not in any way promote the development of private entrepreneurship, especially small businesses and small businesses, but only endangers and makes their normal business more difficult. This should all be taken into account and in principle solutions, because it was necessary to make a different proposal to solve this problem. We have tried and submitted to all these laws a number of amendments, so in the debate on amendments we will try to convince the promoter that something should be accepted, although this accounting and audit law will hardly be corrected by the number of amendments we have submitted, because it simply did not regulate this matter well. It seems to me that there was more to the goal, to regulate the matter of the revision is nothing controversial, but accounting should also have been resolved in a better and different way. It is high time for the Ministry of Finance and the Government in general to pay a little more attention to the standards and lives of people in Serbia and to be a priority, and not some law, I will not say about these four laws on the agenda, which we have passed in the past days and weeks, which in principle have nothing to do with what citizens of Serbia expect in our delegation here in the Assembly, and we later by choosing the Government. In every explanation of these laws, it says that it will improve the business environment, that the conditions for attraction will be better, it simply doesn't matter. Discipline may be introduced, but there's nothing to improve the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26412	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Miljko Cetrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, I will refer only to the Accounting and Audit Act. First, in principle, and then I'll have some remarks about the proposed law. I've been writing some of my remarks, but I don't want to talk about everything, because in principle I support these laws and I'm going to vote for it. I want to make those few notes. First, I believe that this will come one day in Serbia, that two special laws should be passed. One accounting law, one audit law. I know, I even have texts of such laws from some countries in our environment, and still from some countries that are already members of the European Union. The accounting law due to large differences in the application of various taxpayers, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises that we have, as far as I have data, some 150,000, large legal entities around two to three thousand, and in order to ensure greater rationality, the efficiency of applying this important legislative legislation, in fraud, fraud, corruption and other similar serious crimes that seriously endanger the country's legal system, is necessary to divide the accounting law and the law on audit. The Accounting Act should oblige all registered entrepreneurs and all registered legal entities, small, medium and large, to comply with this law. It is necessary to clearly and concisely specify the minimum legal content and form of accounting documents, then the legal obligation to carry out a minimum annual list and to align the assets and liabilities with the real situation, the obligation of financial reports, the classification of legal persons and the minimum legal form of the content of financial reports, the obligation to publish them, the application of financial reporting standards, etc. The accounting law should also apply to all entrepreneurs and all legal entities, except for budget users, which have about 160,000, should be rational for users. It is not intended to burden such a large number of small and medium-sized legal entities, or entrepreneurs, with them unnecessary, complicated and expensive records that no one serves. Therefore, a simple accounting law should be proposed which would be in a dominant function of more effective control and reconciliation of the public obligations of all taxpayers. In the case of accounting laws, States should not interfere with the internal organisation of a legal person, internal control, business investment and market risks, as the State does not normally take responsibility for poor business or for the insolvency situation of economic operators. On the other hand, the proposed new law on audit should be of very limited scope and should apply only to large legal entities and companies, therefore, whose actions are listed on public markets and intend to prepare for open societies, as well as organisations which are obliged to draw up consolidated financial reports. In this proposed combined law that we now have on the agenda, I think there are some things that have to be more specific. Let's just say, defining basic legal stuff doesn't stand here that includes reviewing. There are certain definitions, but I will not read here the definitions that I would suggest to be the applicant of the amendment, more precisely defining who can deal with the revision in accordance with European Union directives; the mutual rights and obligations of auditors and legal persons and users of the audit; the legal accuracy of the documentation for the achievement of greater quality of the audit; minimum legal frameworks, or reports for more effective control of the work of auditors; the statutory obligation of insurance of auditors of liability with minimum scales to cover adverse events that auditors can make for different levels of users, especially for banks, insurance, companies, complex holding organisations, etc.; the regulation of procedures for determining the minimum fees of auditors, etc. Now let me switch to some notes. For example, in Article 23, which states how many years each document is kept, it is said – five years keep payment turnover documents in authorised financial institutions of payment traffic. I think it's very dangerous and that this could be a dangerous problem for the courts if it came to that point that they have to deal with such things. Then, a lot of powers are given to the Ministry of Finance or the Minister himself, say, that the finance minister prescribes the content and form of financial reports forms for the purposes of single statistical processing for companies, etc. Then, Article 39 said, paragraph 2: "The Chamber, with the agreement of the finance minister, prescribes conditions for obtaining, extending and withdrawing the licence from the 1st position of this member." That's a lot of damage to the independence of the chamber. Then, in Article 54, "The Finance Minister agrees to elect the President of the Chamber", and in Article 55, "The Finance Minister gives consent to the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Council", or "The Finance Minister gives consent to the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Supervisory Board". I think it could have been defined differently. In the end, I have submitted two amendments to this law. I don't want to talk about them right now, I don't have a report yet, and I expect the government to accept my two amendments, because they have a significant impact on the improvement of the law, especially Article 5. If that amendment of mine is accepted, it'll make it a lot easier to do so. Little legal people, and it's very important that we make their job easier, not make it harder for them. In that sense, Mr. Peric, from the SRS, said something to me. The second amendment refers to Article 3 which is completely changed and should read differently, and this is to be in line with the Law on the State Auditing Institution, which we have recently adopted. This way it's not in accordance with those two laws. If the minister does not accept these two amendments, I will explain them in detail when the amendments are discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26414	The People's MP Miljko Cetrovic has the word, followed by MP Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26415	Dear People's MPs, a joint principle search of these four draft laws that we have on the agenda today, unfortunately, should have been on the agenda of the National Assembly in 2002, when this privatisation began, better said, and essentially did, the robbery of workers across Serbia, the robbery of huge assets, and finally the robbery of the state, which was carried out through the process of calling auctions, tenders and taking action, which is also related to today's agenda points. The securities market did not live up to normal in developed countries, in parliamentary democracies, as the state of Serbia is mentioned here. I am not surprised today that Minister Dinkic did not euphorically explain these four laws with a special elan, as he is aware of the huge failure and damage he has done to Serbian workers, Serbian citizens and the state of Serbia, not proposing to the National Assembly to pass a law on the securities market. If the DOS government didn't do it, both of them, then neither will this government. The democratic bloc, which in December 2004, in an election campaign, began with the DSS, which is headed by the government, promised citizens that a review of certain privatisation procedures would be carried out and comply with the privatisation rules. Unfortunately, it was a big con from the Serbian citizens. Neither has there been an audit of the privatisations carried out, but it has already been continued with robbery and kidnapping. Now we've reached a figure of about 1,500 companies. Normally, it tends to end the process as soon as possible and continue and there is no turning back, as is said here today when it comes to the securities market of value, i.e. taking over most of the company's actions. I am not surprised, it is clear, that I do not blame lawmakers from the ruling bloc who are now talking about this investment funds law and honey and milk that will flow through Serbia when these funds are formed under this law and that there will then be investments at 20-30 years. I'm surprised what happens to the banks in Serbia, the most successful banking system in the environment, with the best conditions these banks provide, the huge inflow of foreign capital, since all these banks are foreign banks. The state of Serbia and Serbian citizens have experienced that they no longer have their own bank, which no country in the environment has allowed itself, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vojislav Kostunica and the recent Deputy Prime Minister, Labus and the finance minister, has allowed and directly participated in all banks in Serbia being with majority foreign capital. Those most successful banks, with that famous "get in, come out and get it", are probably not good, and now the Investment Funds Act will again try to trick Serbian citizens. Will there be funds like those pyramids that were once created in Albania, Macedonia, or new banks that had some refuge in Serbia? Looking at the reasons of one law and another, especially at the Charter Act of Values and the reasons for its adoption, and the reasons have long passed, nearly five years ago, only two words say the real situation on the financial market, which is, it is said, "real state". This "real state" is a catastrophic situation in Serbia's financial market. How have actions been taken so far, how has the Action Fund worked, how does the Central Register, the securities market, the brokerage houses, who controls them, how are they founded? We are now coming into a situation to discuss how the Securities Committee is formed and what will be the control of its work or who can control its work. We have a situation that the National Assembly has chosen the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and there is no possibility of rescinding the governor. Whether this will be the same story or the story of the Broadcasting Agency, as an independent regulatory body, that the law will establish and operate on its own, without any accounting for anyone. When it comes to the Securities Commission and taking action, something came to the public because they were government members and vice-president of the government, when it came to "Knjiz Milos", but there are even more drastic examples that have not come to the public. For example, I got from Soko Sturka's employee all the documentation about how the action took place, what a robbery and abuse was done by the highest state authorities. The takeover took place within a short period of time, not 21 days, but in 19 and a half days, although it probably wrote, the public knows – "Grand Coffee", but from "Grand Coffee", they don't know the citizens, the workers of "Soko Sturka" know that there is a fact that "Droga Kolinska" became the majority owner. Their majority owner is an Istrabenz investment fund. "Istrabenz," as they were informed, sold the majority package to the Dutch. But despite the fact that we're in violation of the deadline, what's the most important thing here? The most important thing is that despite the warning of workers, the action of "Soko Sturka" that a court case has been brought before the Commercial Court in Belgrade, the case – XV larger, 2-2370, 2004, the complaint of 1497 workers, seeks to determine that they are shareholders, owners of actions, in a far larger part than they are being brought into the company, or in the Central Register. It is required to introduce a temporary measure, in addition to a verdict. Normally, the Belgrade Commercial Court does not resolve this case in this lawsuit, but that is why action is going to be taken. After a year, in June 2005, workers also inform the Committee on Papers of the value of Štimc, Minister Bubal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't know who they have notified, who they need to inform in this country. No one has done anything, no one is aware of what action has been taken in fact considered complete, they file a new lawsuit to the Supreme Court to challenge the takeover of action in July 2005. To this day, none of the letters of the Supreme Court nor any of the letters of the Trade Court, according to the 2004 lawsuit. Is it legitimate business or taking action, is it crime or kidnapping? And not to mention the assessment of the property and the finding of the court expert when it comes to actions or far greater value of actions that the workers had and were meant to prove through the Trade Court. It's a procedure that was conducted at Soko Stirque. Such actions or abductions and thievings were carried out through the takeover of actions in many businesses in Serbia. I also mention the example: "Autosaur Kragujevac", where workers can't, because they come across closed doors everywhere, to come up with facts, to see how many owners they are, and how many state owners they are. Also, workers of a large large-scale "Dumnavac Ub" agricultural combination, not to mention many other workers across Serbia. Will the adoption of this law be an ad act so far and whether this government or will it have to have a new government after an extraordinary parliamentary election to approach the review of all privatisations, all takeovers and to satisfy justice in fact? It's been kidnapped a lot, and it's been kidnapped damn. Serbia, workers and citizens of Serbia will certainly not allow that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26416	The People's MP Branislav Nedimovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Veselinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26417	Dear Mr. Chairman, the respected representatives of the ministry, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have four laws in the area of the financial system. Of the four laws, I'm sure we had two very eager expectations. I will agree with my predecessors' claims that we may be late for some time with the adoption of a law on investment funds and the law on the takeover of stock companies, but surely, until this humble law was passed, or the law on which we are going to discuss today, which is the Charter Market of Values and other financial instruments, could not be discussed on these other two laws, because there simply could not be adequate control over the application of the law on investment funds and the law on the takeover of stock companies. There are several reasons why this set of laws regulating the capital market and regulating the area of accounting and audit is important. First of all, it is a further continuation of the economic reform implementation programme. A more efficient economic system needs to be created, economic integration accelerated and Serbia's economy opened up for new investments. In my further presentation, I will first of all concentrate on two laws – the Investment Funds Act and the Act on the takeover of stock companies. This paper market law and other financial instruments has been said quite a bit by my predecessors, so I'm going to pay a little more attention to these two laws. The Investment Funds Act entered the assembly procedure in August of last year. We can agree with the fact that we may have been able to discuss it earlier, but as I just said, until he entered the Assembly procedure of the Charter Market Act of Values there was no place to discuss this law. It is, therefore, about the Investment Funds Act, which has been brought in countries in the environment much earlier, so that the competent ministry has had a lot of experience in the practice on which it could bring, or propose a law on investment funds. I hope the Ministry did, or I'm absolutely sure of it. What exactly are investment funds? Investment funds represent the most efficient way of collecting free money with the aim of investing and provide an opportunity for those who have the means to fertilise their capital in a quick and simple way, and also help to develop the economy. There's one thing about investment funds. There is a group of people, citizens of Serbia, which showed some previous period, that there is a certain amount of money in the so-called. "Slammaries." When we were making a change, converting from mark to euro, it was best seen how much money was replaced. There is a need to focus these funds on investment. Of course, there will never be a situation where these complete funds enter into some investment flows and that they are invested in the economy, but a good part of these funds are certain that this investment funds law will enter into that framework and thus help economic development. The important thing about the investment fund law is that there will be professional people, portfolio managers, who will be able to manage this capital. When one of the citizens who has its own funds and wants to invest it in a particular investment, since the largest number of citizens is unable to monitor every day movement in the markets, and is unable to be educated in such a way as to properly channel their funds, he will, through the manager's portfolio, be able to do so in a very good way. Most importantly, the Investment Funds Act provides legal certainty for investment and creates a normal legal framework, in which small investors who have a small amount of funds, and want to fertilise their own resources, and in this way they seem to be able to do so much better. This represents a new financial institution – investment funds, although it is known in practice for almost all countries located in our environment. The use of the experiences of all these countries is certainly very valuable and I would agree with my predecessors' claim that maybe this investment fund law is not the best solution. It is the best solution right now, because we just haven't regulated this area of social life at all, so for the first time in a valid way special legislation regulates this matter. Of course, the time that will be before us will show us possible shortcomings and give this congregation home the opportunity to bring amendments to the law, because what kind of law does not follow what is happening in society, which does not follow the movement on the ground, and therefore makes appropriate changes. As for the law itself, this law regulates several very important things. First of all, the establishment and operation of companies for the management of investment funds, the organisation, that is, the establishment of the business of investment funds, the duty and role of banks that represent a very important instrument, the specific banks that will exclusively be engaged, in addition to their regular activities and these activities of the investment fund. It also regulates the competences of the Commission on securities of value which plays a very important role in the process of supervision of the operation of the investment fund management company. The question is, what effect will this investment fund law produce? Surely these effects will be very much, first of all the capital market is developing, what is most necessary to Serbia. So Serbia did not have a sufficiently developed capital market, this is a start and I hope that in some future period we will be able to discuss investment funds in a much better way, because they will find their safe foothold in Serbia's economy. We've had some examples of foreign investment funds coming up with us, but without a clearly regulated substance that regulates investment funds, there's always a danger of doing everything right. Because when there's a legal void, then it's simply creating a space for different manifestations of some objective situations. Also, what I just said, the mobility of saving citizens will be one of the effects of this investment fund law, because there will be a transfer of certain funds available to our citizens to investment funds. One of the most important things, perhaps the most important thing, regarding investment funds, is the increase in the source of finance for the economy. The economy is being financed from different sources today. First of all, there are, therefore, those natural persons who have their own resources and want to invest in the economy. It's one of the sources of funding. Another source of funding is the taking of credit from banks and each investor thus takes the funds, believing that in a short period of time he will be able to fertilise that capital he received from the bank, to return what is its own and to keep the corresponding value to himself, so to create a profit for himself. The state of Serbia has also created opportunities to invest in the economy through the Development Fund, but this will be another way, one of the sources of financing Serbia's economy. A particularly important thing is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We all talk very often about these small and medium-sized enterprises, and they are, in fact, the essence of the Serbian economy, what Serbia's economy needs to move forward. It is certain that the large industrial entities that existed in the past 30-40 years are no longer able to survive in this way. It is this small and medium-sized enterprises that will include investment funds that will contribute to the development of the Serbian economy, and this is perhaps the most important thing that will bring about the adopted investment fund law. For this reason, the DSS has no doubt to support this investment fund law. As far as the Act on the takeover of stock companies is concerned, I'm going to say just a few sentences about it since it's been said enough. Practice has shown the need to pass such a law, because in the previous period we have had several situations where simply, because of the lack of regulation of this matter, different situations arise, because existing laws either did not normize this area or they have not standardized it enough. A very important thing, as far as these financial laws are concerned, and what Mr. Prophetovic mentioned earlier, Serbia is passing these laws for itself. Serbia does not pass these laws because of the EU. To the truth, some of these laws are in the Action Plan brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and related to joining the EU, but all these laws are passed because of Serbia and because of the development of its economy and for the citizens of Serbia. That's why I have to mention the important thing about the law on the takeover of stock companies, which is the protection of minority shareholders. The state must take care of minority shareholders, because it has shown practice that very often in the previous period came, especially there two or three years ago, that when a majority package is taken over, there is a reduction in the role of these minority shareholders and they are left to themselves more or less. Large shareholders pay extremely little fees for small shareholders' actions and they simply have no choice but to offer their actions at low prices or not to benefit from their actions. For this very reason, the state has found it appropriate, the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to protect small shareholders, to introduce the principle of transparency, that whenever someone wants to offer action must present an offer to take action, it must offer it to everyone, first to submit a letter on the intentions to take action, and therefore to take action later on from all those who want to take them. I wouldn't take up your time anymore, I'm just going to express one of my visions. I am sorry that so few MPs attend this debate today. This is one of the most important discussions that we have as part of economic reforms, these are extremely important laws, and for this reason DSS MPs will vote for these laws, because the DSS is aimed at creating an economically and economically strong Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26418	The People's Messenger Milan Veselinović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Istvan Takac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26419	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are right when they say it is a large and complex matter that Minister Dinkic explained only partly by flying from law to law. He probably wasn't in the mood, nor was he willing to explain it all the way he would like to be one minister, because you can see for yourself that he has problems with his MP group and they're probably out there solving who's going to keep the monopoly, whether Labus or Dinkic will either split up or reunite, depending on the prey they've robbed these past two years, as well as the previous government, or DOS authorities of the previous three years. It is not a matter of the interest group to capture General Mladic and blackmail on the capture of the Serbian hero, but rather something else, which is the division of prey and control of financial flows by Mladjan Dinkic or Labus. These legal projects are one set that will be applied in part, what is the interest of the finance ministry will apply, and what is not in the interest will not apply, but will end up on shelves, as well as other legal projects. Someone said these laws aren't European, they're ours. Well, in any law, you can see that it's under the EU directive, I don't know about eighth, fourth or second, so this is still a alignment, or a race to get in touch with the European mentors who support this group. I will remain partially in the proposed laws, and I will pay my utmost attention to the Accounting and Audit Act. In fact, during Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's speech and the interpretation of these laws, his reasoning was mainly that this was in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as small shareholders. If we look at the first law that applies to the Bill of Paper Markets and other financial instruments, we see that this is about something else entirely. It is not about what the finance minister says, that better conditions are being created for the paper market than values and better control. In fact, there is something else in the game here, which is that the monopoly on the securities market has again the Serbian government and the finance ministry. Here is the problem of the World Bank, which also has a monopoly in terms of securities transactions, where they have the opportunity to carry out these transactions in foreign currency as well, while our domestics must only be in domestic currency. Gentlemen from the ruling coalition also noted that each legislative project contained the consent of the finance minister. So, again, one monopoly by the finance minister. When it comes to the proposal for a law on investment funds submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it can be easily seen that investment funds – open, closed and private investment funds – are involved. It is normal to own a certain deposit, I think it is estimated to be around 200,000 euros, and with a private investment fund about 50,000 euros. This looks to me like a parabanking body, a para-institution, and it reminds me of former insurance companies that have failed citizens in the past and robbed many. Here again, some associations are given the opportunity to manipulate citizens of Serbia. The third law we are discussing today is a bill on the takeover of stock companies. The reason here is mainly that it is a matter of protecting small companies, that when buying these actions, all participants have an equal footing in the purchase of stock companies and their actions, but it is also predicted that this law may be late. I don't know what else will be bought out and what stock companies, what actions, when Serbian workers have already been manipulated in the last five, six years since the revolutionaries entered the political scene of Serbia on October 5th. Now the question is what will you take further, which companies, if you have sold out, cements, olives, sugars, brewers, anything that could be sold – you sold, and I can tell you openly that today in Serbia lives much worse than yesterday, and it will certainly be worse tomorrow, because from day to day workers are losing their jobs. Those who bought the companies do not respect the Privatisation Act, but they abuse it and normally there is a great dissatisfaction, although you have partly managed to divide them, both trade unionally and through the Law on Local Self-Government, so they are not well organized to drive you out of power. I will particularly stick to the draft law on accounting and audit, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we could see from this law and read that this is about reviewing. Conditions and arrangements for the management of accounts, the assembly and presentation of financial statements, as well as the conditions and arrangements for the implementation of the procedure and the conduct of the audit of financial statements are being arranged. This law applies to legal persons registered for the performance of economic and social activity and parts of foreign companies, and does not apply to entities financed from the budget. I received, as a folk MP, a letter from some stock company, publishing activity, and that's "Employment Advisor." You can read on the site and see in public, in the press, how we're criticised for the amendments. I have prepared an answer for them, and I will read why the SRS and our amendments are actually criticising: "The question is whether all business entities involving entrepreneurs and small legal entities should apply international accounting standards that have been applied in the EU since 2005, only large listed corporations whose securities are listed on the EU financial market. When composing consolidated financial reports, they are estimated to be applied by about 7,000 companies, up to 0.03% of the total number of businesses in the EU. Other companies in EU Member States shall apply national rules and national standards, in accordance with the relevant EU directives. The application of these standards to all legal persons, which you stand for, is not comprehensive and there are many reasons for this." So they're rebelling because we're against the Chamber, so they have a monopoly in politics. I'll read the explanation I've prepared, for the sake of the public and for them, that they know why we Serbian radicals don't accept half the things you do. In fact, here we are criticised for supporting accounting associations, and the answer to that is, "The bill provides for the establishment of the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, Article 50(2). It is predicted that members of the Chamber are authorised auditors employed by the audit company, authorised internal auditors, and audit firms. Professional associations can establish exclusively interested persons, at least ten persons under current regulations, and in order to achieve some of their common interest cannot be established by law." So, simply, the law regulates the establishment of the Chamber while professional associations can be established voluntarily and that means they are not directly under the authority of the ministry and government. Citizens' associations are only possible on a voluntary basis. As the draft accounting and audit law now provides, membership is mandatory for authorised auditors. Since only members of the Chamber can meet the necessary working conditions, members of the professional association body must be exclusively out of the membership order. That's the difference between the Chamber and the professional associations. Look at all the information the Chamber has. Jobs placed in the work of the Chamber by the draft law, such as licensing authorised auditors, then monitoring the process of harmonisation of accounting audit regulations, adoption of training programmes for candidates, regulation of conditions for obtaining, extending and withdrawing licences, nostration of professional titles, recognition of professional titles, application of international standards, codes of ethics, etc. So, by applying international standards and codes of ethics, all over the world, they're running professional organizations, not half-state organizations, like the Chamber is. The chamber is a practical business association, not an inconceivable professional association. So here he was right and predecessor from the DSS, a professor, who said the Chamber was a semi-state institution controlled by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this is an important issue, for the sake of the public and the association of shareholders who wrote it to us, with them now wanting to have a monopoly over this chamber, not those who willingly join together, as they have so far. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and invite you to adopt our amendments during the debate and thus improve these legislative projects as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26420	The Messenger of the people is Istvan Takac; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a united debate on the Bill on Securities and Investment Funds, on the takeover of stock companies, as well as the Accounting and Audit Act. During the transition period, all functions are reorganised. In the case of the Republic of Serbia, there is an additional adjustment of the rules also in relation to the situation when it was in the SRJ alliance. During this period, individuals also become potential entrepreneurs, i.e. the owners of their own production units, who can provide for themselves and their family a certain part of the means of life. Since these units will exist, live, and under what circumstances money can be made, it is a complex relationship of the environment. What exactly are these regulations? The financial function of the company was both now and in the past: the mandatory preservation and strengthening of the financial reputation of the company, the maximum use of favourable trends in the money and capital market, bringing down to the minimum the negative impact of monetary disturbances, the minimum degree of financial risk of business. It is true that these principles affect the business of all economic operators, but to understand that it is necessary to know and accept and apply them. In particular, I would like to point out that in the past 50 years of business for the companies at the time, the necessary assets were mainly purchased through a loan, i.e. a supplier, and a new type of business and the purchase of assets for business, especially for investments, were purchased on the capital market through securities. I don't want to deny that the loans won't go away in the future, I just want to stress the advantage of the capital market we're discussing here today. The financial business principles mentioned earlier and in order to be applied, it is particularly beneficial for a favourable trend in the market, money and capital, it is necessary for the capital market to function. In order for the capital market to function, it must be regulated by law and other sublaws. The previous federal law, as we have heard today, as well as other financial instruments, regulates this market as a sensitive market in 265 members. 21 concepts have been established that regulated the law in the legal traffic of securities of value and other financial documents. The comparisons work, the Law on the Capital Market of the Republic of Hungary adopted in 2001, regulates the problem in 107 terms. The proposal for the current Charter Act of Values and other financial instruments, which has 262 members, states that the legislator followed the basic principles and standards of the EU basic directive which form a crucial part of the action plan in the functioning of financial services, as well as other directives implemented in the law. The basic characteristic of the securities market and other financial documents is the organised market. The organised market, the value of the paper, is the place where securities are offered under the predetermined rules, i.e. the purchase of securities, public and by the known organiser, which is subject to the control of work, the supervision by law and the prescribed authority, at this time of the Commission. Professional investors are, under the draft law, those who, according to their basic business, have the task of raising money, which are banks and international organisations, as well as other international organisations that are qualified to do so by the government. I believe that investment funds formed under the law must be included in this category. The related persons in terms of the value of the paper should not be specifically talked about, as this is detailed in the Business Society Act. The draft law on securities of value provides for who is the publisher and the obligations of the issuer who must draw up the prospectus. In the prospectus, the issuer must guarantee the truthfulness and completeness of the information referred to in Article 27. It's a bill of law. On this basis, the customer acquires confidence in securities and hopes that they will earn profits on which to purchase securities. The draft law does not require a prospectus when an undertaking issues shares in the privatisation process of state, or social capital, in accordance with the law governing privatisation. It is significant that any inclusion of securities from values on an organised securities market precedes registration in the Central Register. The draft law allows for the trading of charters of value of foreign origin. With these securities of value, according to Article 36. Legally, they can trade brokerage companies if the prospectus is registered and authorised by the competent commission. Under the bill, the monetary share of the underlying capital for the securities market organiser, the stock market, cannot be less than 1m euros. For vanbersan jobs, 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent. One of the participants in the organised paper market of value is a brokerage-dealer company that is organised according to company rules. The exception is the level of the underlying capital in the establishment of a society. Under Article 126, it is 50,000 euros, 100,000 euros, 200,000 and 300,000 euros, depending on the volume. The law particularly regulates the responsibility of the brokerage company in relation to the risk and what they are exposed to. According to Article 147, the risk of a brokerage-dealer company to a single person, i.e. to a number of related persons, must not exceed 25% of the capital of a broker-dealer company. It's a guarantee that the brokerage company can't gamble on the role of the client they're talking to. With regard to the second law, on the takeover of government companies, I would like to point out this: this bill falls within the order of regulation of the financial market. In the draft law, 53 members are detailed in the terms and procedures of taking over AD, the rights and obligations of participants in the process of taking over and overseeing the implementation of the takeover process of the companies. Individual or joint natural and legal persons and investment funds may participate in the takeover. Each participant, whether an individual or an agreement is associated, shall be obliged to provide the necessary means to take over. It is important to point out, as a protection of shareholders in the bill, the obligation to publish the intention to take over is foreseen. That's what happens when the acquirer has more than 25% of the shares of the company that takes over. Under the bill of law, one who acquires shares by inheriting a temporary or division of the joint assets is not obliged to publish the takeover of the company. In accordance with Article 13 of The proposal for a law shall be made by the tenderer to submit to the Commission, within one day, an application for the authorisation and publication of the download. The Commission is obliged to publish and inform, within two days, the Central Securities Register of the values. It's an important way to publish an offer. The acquirer is obliged to publish it in a newspaper that has a circulation of at least 100,000 copies, as well as electronically, and in this way I believe it is possible for the general public to be informed of the intention of taking over. As regards the price of the acquisition, the bill sets the price offered, as the action must not be lower than the average price of the action in the last three months prior to publication. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that if someone buys 95% of the shares of a society, they are obliged to buy up to 100% under the same conditions. I believe that, when this bill comes to life, abuses in this area will be reduced to the least possible extent. As regards the draft law on accounting and audit, this bill has long been announced. The bill was returned on two occasions to the supplemental. The largest professional public participated in the debate on the draft. The bill was sent to the Assembly in January of this year. I believe that, in this way, direct users can come to know the proposal's intentions in advance and that their well-intentioned remarks are being directed to improve the solutions offered. I believe that for every society, including ours, it is very important that all economic and other developments that have an economic and monetary effect must be recorded in time. In this proposal, this part is well regulated. I would like to stress that this bill corresponds to current businesses and other societies. I believe that the standards that are binding in character are reduced to real size, without excessive administration with the possibility of using all modern means of data transfer and registration. I particularly welcome and support the proposed solutions in the draft law on the expertise of individuals who will be engaged in bookkeeping and that the company determines and determines the same according to its needs. I would like to point out here that the legal obligation regarding the category, but also the expertise, such as accountants, independent accountants and authorised accountants, in this area has ceased to apply to the Law on Accounting and Audition in 2003. Such an attitude on this issue can also be checked on the Internet presentation by the Ministry of Finance. Some professional organisations, and now, in mid-2006, present this as a commitment, and among their members, they expensively charge for obtaining such a calling. I think the proposals they made would, therefore, return the profession and expertise without real knowledge. On my part, I advocate that professional organisations train economic technicians and economists for special areas in business activities and for quality production management, complex products, so-called driving bookkeeping, then banking accounting, budget management, etc. I also believe that in the era of electronic programming for the annual accounts of the balance sheet and balance sheet, it is necessary to train them to draw up and analyse these reports. As for the external audit of the balance sheet of companies, I am of the opinion that this obligation should remain only for large legal persons and for those who have shares in a stock exchange. The rest of the companies at this stage incursion, after privatisation, will operate with their capital, private or associated, so I believe that they will best control the spending of their money and know whether it is real. In addition, the draft law provides that tax authorities may, at any time, control the reports of all economic operators and, in the case of the determination of the tax liability, if they were to make a mistake, this will most qualitatively be determined by the Tax Administration. The collection of business reports in the previous Accounting Act was entrusted to the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia which was inherited from the former SDK. Meanwhile, a Law establishing an Agency for Business Registers has been adopted and it has the obligation to collect and record financial reports from companies and other entities legally obliged to submit such reports. I'm betting that in the next period these reports will only be delivered to this agency. It is realistic, therefore, that the same report required of other economic and legal entities, in one place, collects in writing or electronically, then the same document to be available to all other state bodies. A positive example is in submitting annual accounts of beneficiaries of the budget. I advocate that in the era of rationalisation, in the future of the state service, the state with its norms should take care of imposing administration on economic operators. The draft law on the establishment of the Chamber of Auditors is realistic. Countries in the environment already have such a chamber. The possibility of its functioning being regulated by a special law should be considered. I believe the proposed laws will contribute to the development with full control and expertise of capital. The G17 Group of MPs plus supports these bill proposals and calls on everyone else to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26422	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26423	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I went out for this pay phone for two things. The first thing is to ask the representatives of the majority to receive a delegation of wartime military disableds, these martyrs who have shed blood for this country, whose rights here by law have been reduced and who will not know how to treat themselves in the future, and who have problems with the police, but have managed to penetrate that cordon in their wheelchairs and reach the government. Return that law to the National Assembly and accept amendments to Serbian radicals so that these people can live normally. Now I have come to read you something, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to mention this item of the agenda, and as far as all the points of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, because we have decided in an indirect manner in the National Assembly, and we of the SRS parliamentary group have pointed to this countless times. I have brought direct proof, something I will read to you – who has received a national frequency in our country, which is what we are dealing with and what democracy in Serbia is booming; who in Serbia is fascist, who in Serbia is the one who calls for ritual killings. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a text in front of me, downloaded from the official site B92, from the Sandman show. Guest is Vukasin Nedeljković, artist. This man said, among other things, that, you know, we listen to all kinds of nonsense and crazy every day, we listen to campaigns, once a month about Tomislav Nikolic killing grandparents, and then they shut up. We listened about how I wanted to kill my own mother, and then they realized it might be a little too much, so they broke up. But, ladies and gentlemen, listen to the next thing I ask the citizens of Serbia to just imagine what the "democratic forces" would do with their political opponents, so let's find a more democratic way with B92, which is their crime, and you'll see why I said that word - because it's a recorded show, and it's being broadcast. So, not some lunatic came in, so he said something that nobody agrees with directly and lively in the program, no, the show was recorded, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and that video was broadcast, so listen up. He says, and then I think about whether or not these people should be killed, and I remembered, the story of Vukasin Nedeljkovic, when I was in Oxford, has this museum of an adventurer who went around the world, he collected all kinds of things, so you have what the Eskimo wore in the 19th century, Africans, Arabs, etc. And then you go to one part, I don't know how to translate it, like the heads down, so I quote from their official website, I didn't listen, I don't usually do that with Nikolic and Vukic. So, cutting off their heads, putting them in that acid to lower their heads and make an exhibition. Then I'd have like some folders, there would be radicals, so with Kostunica," I don't know what or how to go on. He says, "That would be a very strong museum. That's where Charles Sachi would freak out, he's into these bizarre things. I guarantee he'd buy it right away, give them a million pounds just to cut off their heads somehow." Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am known as a very timid man. This man has now threatened me with ritual murder, decapitation, and Tomislav Nikolic and me. I got a call from family members, my brother called me and said, "What do we do now, go to B92, what do I do to them? ". I said, "Please don't do anything, because this is a picture and an opportunity of fascism in Serbia." This is a picture and an opportunity of the blackest form of fascism in Serbia. Now I ask, which one of you supports this fascism in Serbia? Who allowed such fascism to grow up like this, cut people's heads off, put them in acids, and reduce them because they're political opponents? You'd take a million pounds for that, since they have everything in pounds, dollars, Euros, etc. Who let that happen? Who allowed us to have a story after that about who, how and how to deal with political opponents? Is it that radio-television that almost played the video "Don't Let Us Go Again", so they released some footage of a reporter saying, "And the Ustashas attacked Bor's village," or I don't know what, which was all true. Like, don't tell us that again, that kind of reporting or I don't know what. Is that what we're talking about? Mr. Chairman, I ask you, you are a reasonable man, regardless of all our political differences, I have always respected your racio and calm, explain to me what this is about. Is that the government, the occupation regime, you know what regime I mean, I mean the Serbian government in the case of disabled people, I don't mean the Serbian government at the moment, I mean this overall occupation regime, I'm interested in whether it's something they're calling for in Polynesia and Minnesota to break up 60 years ago? Do they call for ritual killings of political opponents? Is that behavior desirable? Is this degree of expression of fascist, criminal ideology desirable and good behavior in Serbia? It seems to me that some have made them, because everyone is silent and because they can't and can't stand up to them. As you can see, there is someone who will stand up to them. I'm just asking you never again to say that someone once spread hate somewhere. They prosecuted Vojislav Seselj in The Hague because of what they called inflammatory spy. In the team, for God's sakes, there's nothing like that, absolutely nothing like that. There are attempts to defend the Serb people from the fate of the Ustasha villains, these or those, but nothing like that. Now I ask, what will be the reaction of the Radiodifuse Agency Council, will the culture minister react to this, will the Serbian government react and the one that reacts when Darko Rundek gets a slap somewhere, so he receives it, starves on his cheek and says: "Sorry, no big deal." (President: Time.) I know and I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your understanding and your patience. Or are you gonna keep your mouth shut again? Or is it good behavior to cut off the heads of Nikolic and Wolfie? I don't mind, I'd be free of worry, I wouldn't know they exist on a globe of Earth. It shows what we'd really do. This is now a warning to us Serbian radicals. This shows in the naked form what they would do with us if we weren't as tough, complicated and strong as we are today. Don't have any illusions, it's waiting for us tomorrow if we let them reduce us in any way, our strength lowers, if we succeed in any way to defeat us or get us out of the political public. We wouldn't be waiting for prisons and stadiums, as they predicted earlier, to be cut off in one way or another. So I suggest, and I ask all the other citizens to see it well and that, not by force, not by force, but by argument, by intelligence, by knowledge, if you want and beauty, we oppose each and every place in Serbia, in every cinema, theater, restaurant, to show that we have an argument, and they have an argument to cut off their heads. Our argument is to keep and love Serbia and our people, but also to all other citizens. They cut off their heads, and we'll wait to see what the competent state authorities do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26424	The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26425	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, when it comes to these four laws, and I will only talk about the first three to touch the financial market, the fact is, as my colleagues have said, that they have been quite late with them, but the reason for this delay is, above all, the desire of the Serb tycoons to take as many of the small shareholders as possible and to deprive the capital of small shareholders in the previous period. For two years now, this value-market law, which essentially does not look like a law designed to rob Serbian citizens, has been functioning. In those two years, the Serbian government has found no reason to prevent the robbery, primarily the part relating to the takeover, and it seems to me that this has been the least discussed and discussed so far. Privatisation, on the one hand, and the financial market, on the other hand, have today made most of the citizens poor, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a pair of those who have been huge capital, which has been available in this country for decades, either for themselves or for their loved ones. It is believed that by applying this law in the previous two years, hundreds of small shareholders have been robbed, that it is the capital of small shareholders worth about three billion euros and that a good flow of capital has passed through the government's carelessness, into the hands of Serb tycoons. The concern about the financial market is, above all, through the lack of law through incomplete legislation, but there are also major problems in the functioning and creation of the financial market itself, which do not only touch regulation. All that concern can also be shown by some quantitative data, by the fact that out of the total gross social income traffic on the financial market is only 2.9%, that the growth in the stock market index is about 39% on average in the previous year, regardless of the inflation that was about 17-18%, regardless of the privatisation process that has not yet been completed, regardless of the fact that a large number of transactions take place precisely in the privatisation process. All of this, as well as the fact that financial market development takes a number of years, a certain period of time, experts say from five to six years to make economic effects positive, is why we have a capital pool today. In a situation where the National Bank of Serbia prescribes a growing and larger reserve for banks and will certainly reflect interest, the fact is that it will have an important impact on the economy's ability in the coming period. As far as these problems of the financial market are concerned, unfortunately they are neither being debated by the professional public, the government is not trying to organise gatherings where some solutions would be given, where we would create a concept of national action. All of this is done in some narrow circles around the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic himself, and we get the impression that we have a kind of criminal organisation, with the goal of transferring the huge capital of citizens to the hands of several hundred people in Serbia. So, the lack of national action and concept is crucial to everything that happens when it comes to the financial market, but it is also a fact that we have a very poor macroeconomic situation, the fact that we have a big inflation this year suggests that both the development of the financial market and the future will be slowed down, given that we also have problems with healthy economic growth and that micro-economy, the situation in businesses is not satisfactory. We can expect that, to this extent, this legislation that has been somewhat improved, but far from what we expected, at least we from the SRS, which is manifested through a large number of amendments that we have made, means that all of this will not fix the situation in the capital market. A major problem for the development of the financial market in any case and the non-compliance of the real and financial sector, and these are already a problem for the economy that has been delayed since the government came into power. The impression is that we are in reality and we do not have the Ministry of Economy, that the Ministry of Business is literally under the bankruptcy of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, that the Ministry of Economy is today only a service of the Privatisation Agency and that there are some untouchable institutions and institutions within our country who have the right to self-inflicted holdings that have been acquired decades ago, I mean, above all, the Ministry, or the Privatisation Agency, but through this law is going through another institution that has unlimited rights and whose rights are mostly not regulated by the proposed laws. This is the Commission for Securities of Value. There are enormous discretionary rights of the Securities Commission in these laws and you will find in each other, third-member of the Commission's law on securities of value to prescribe one or the other area. What is the biggest sin of the government so far, is the fact that on the financial market we have an extremely weak offer, that we have no offer of those first-class actions, offers of the largest, primarily public enterprises, businesses in the field of communication, enterprises in the field of electricity industry. In any case, there could also be an offer of railways, NIS, Aerodrom, and it proved in the previous year through the privatisation of the banking sector that the government has no real intention of supporting the development of the financial market, because if we had had the opportunity to privatise the banks with the help of the financial market, we would certainly have many quality charters on the market today. That market would have deepened greatly compared to the situation we have today. Nothing the government has done about municipal bonds, bonds from local self-government, and the fact is that it is a great opportunity for Serbian citizens to invest in rebuilding Serbia itself and the economy itself, without using the possibility of bonds from local self-government. Today we have an extremely shallow market, a market where foreign capital dominates the good part. It is believed that 50% of the financing comes from a foreign factor, but what is a fact with a foreign factor, it is waiting, waiting for the government to recover Serbia's economy. If it withdraws from our financial market, it will be very difficult for our economy, and above all it will reflect on inflation, because when foreign investors withdraw and replace the dinars for foreign exchanges and bring them up, there is a surplus of dinars, and all this affects macroeconomic stability. If we are not urgently moving towards the development of the financial market, the question is whether it makes any sense and to come up with further steps in this regard. I would say that the market is extremely inequential, especially a free stock market on which they say there are about 960 companies somewhere. You have daily traffic on a level of about 80 companies. This best shows that the offer of actions is significantly higher than demand, and on average, it is about two and a half times the supply of shares, i.e. capital compared to demand itself, and indirectly points to a poor state of economy, which the SRS points to years ago, in fact from the very entry of this government into power. As far as citizens' education is concerned, nothing has been done in this previous period. With the privatisation process of the moment when the law was designed, we should have gone into the development of the financial market, but at the same time we should have gone to citizen education. I often mention the example of Hungary, which when the development of the financial market started had such serious and strong institutions that citizens took loans to buy their businesses' actions, unlike our citizens who take loans for personal consumption. This best indicates how many citizens today are not informed and do not distinguish between the basic concepts of the financial market, so unfortunately you have a situation that sports bookmakers are much more interesting than stock market reports, although the ability to make money is significantly higher on the financial market than it is in sports bookies. Probably as long as it doesn't happen that we have a stock exchange financial report on the back of the newspaper, we won't get a chance to see the real effects of the financial market itself. I would say in terms of regulation, that the proposal of these laws should in any case have completed the proposal, i.e. amendments and additions to the Company Act, because the Law on the Market of Securities and the Law on Business Companies and how they intertwine, many institutes are not in line, many solutions between these two laws and in the previous law and in this current Bill on the Market of Securities of Values are not in line. For the successful development of the financial market, it is necessary, in any case, to have important changes and additions to the Company Act. I'd take this opportunity to mention just a few things. We need to regulate open and closed companies and the way they move from one to the other. A lot has been said that this law on the paper market will be worth regulating the area, however, there are no solutions in the proposal itself. It obviously escaped, since unfortunately it is going to capital concentration and in fear of regulating closed companies. I think that fear is the basic reason why this was going on, given the exceptional liberalisation of the capital concentration. As far as corporate governance is concerned, there is very little done, although the Government and the Proposer praise that there is in this law, little is true, and small shareholders as the basic pillar of any action, nor the Business Society Act, nor this bill of law, have come into the situation of more serious control of action bosses, control management and management, and do not even have an adequate ability to control auditors, and the merger of auditors and administrations is the biggest reason for numerous machinations in all financial markets around the world. As regards the very problems with the Business Society Act, there are major abuses and an increasing number of abuses, and in the case of changes in the legal form of an economic society. Almost always, as a rule, they don't ask small shareholders, they don't even know what's going on, from what legal form their assets are transferred to, and what's very important is the fact that small shareholders draw their legitimacy from property rights. The right to property is what we all advocate to be maximum protected, it's not simply voting who has the number of shares in a company, whether someone has 51% or 65%. Both that 1% and that one action is someone's property and he has the rights of that property and that property must be protected. As for the specific laws, I would right now, with a few objections to refer to these three laws. I say, the MPs of the SRS have submitted a large number of amendments, and through these amendments we will have the opportunity to discuss all of this in detail. What is most important in the Securities Market Act is the fact that it is quite inexplicable and unclear, that what may be the biggest problem in this law – the appearance of the Vanberza market, and that there is no serious explanation that this vanbersan market is not properly defined, that it is not properly distinguished from the stock market and that I believe that the largest number of MPs, and even people from the professional public, are not clear about the existence of the vanbersan market, unless, if the aim is that small shareholders can bring their actions to the market without any restrictions, that smaller and medium-sized enterprises may arise. But I am quite sure that in the context of the existing stock market, in addition to the existing regulation and rules of the stock market, this problem was also possible in a much better way, avoiding multiplication of institutions that would only confuse potential shareholders. As far as the stock market is concerned, I think it's high time for the Belgrade Stock Exchange to be abolished. There is no reason not to have a stock exchange in Serbia, in Montenegro you have two stock exchanges, and their potential and ours are quite different. I think the state has the possibility to help create another money stock exchange through the New Zealand Stock Exchange, which would have a significant impact on the collapse of Belgrade Stock Exchange monopoly. The Belgrade Stock Exchange monopoly is obvious at every turn. The Belgrade Stock Exchange has a significant impact on the financial market, primarily through a regulation that, indeed, adopts a Securities Commission, but is also large monopolies within the Belgrade Stock Exchange Management Board. The fact is that the largest number of people on the Management Board, in fact the directors of the former banks in bankruptcy, that the bankers have a monopoly on the board of directors, and the intermediaries themselves when buying through some of their own, means brokerage and dealer companies through their associations are trying to strengthen the monopoly on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, and the fact is that the stock market and monopoly do not go with each other, that the stock market is quite the opposite of the monopoly. As far as the Securities Market Act is concerned, I'd say one more thing. As far as foreign professional investors are concerned, it is completely unclear why the legislator has defined that only OECD and EU countries have the right to do so, that this is regulated by Article 11 and that the conditions for approval are prescribed by the Securities Commission. This is another confirmation that the Securities Commission has exceptional discretion in most of the institutes that appear in these legal solutions. As for the Securities Commission itself, the biggest problem with it is the question of whether it has the capacity and whether it is sufficiently qualified for all those sublegal acts that are necessary to bring these legal proposals to life. We have the biggest problem, we have had, and it seems to me, we will now, I'm sure in fact, after this legislative solution with prospectuses, and so far, the Securities Commission has prescribed prospectuses. Unfortunately, they were quite shrewd, in developed market economies, these prospectuses have even up to 30 pages. The fact is that this legal solution was also meant to distinguish between economic operators, that they were serious, strong, large companies that were of great importance to the economy should have significantly more extensive prospectuses and that they had to be ranked during the obligations of sublaws. And the Securities Commission itself, thanks to criminal provisions that are too liberal, too low, will not be able to fully exercise control over the application of these laws, and for one financial market, a healthy market, full legal legislation is necessary, we need to have an adequate criminal policy. That is, therefore, my fundamental objection to the Law on the Market of Securities of Values. Very little has been said about the law on the takeover of stock companies, and I think that it is extremely important and that thanks to these solutions from the previous Law on the Market of Papers, great money has been robbed. Unfortunately, this law continues the robbery, and the basic reason is in Article 1. A law saying that the subject matter of trade could be shares traded for the last three months prior to the announcement of a takeover bid. I was just talking about how invaluable our market is, how small the trade is on the Belgrade stock market. Often these shops are fictitious with the goal of reducing stock prices, so after the first trade, if not going – it decreases by 20%, and from 20% to 20%, we get to a very low stock price. If we also convince small shareholders that this is the right price for action, then you are able to buy these companies on the stock market, and there is only a few percent of Serbian citizens. So attitude one is unacceptable for the SRS. In order to take over an undertaking's actions, it is necessary for them to be market-verified, to be a significantly larger period, there are much more significant restrictions on the takeover permit and from that initial member himself, we see the intention to continue with this download process and for what reason. The process of taking over is expensive work in all countries of the market economy, only with us, thanks to these solutions can we do it easily. As far as joint action is concerned, I think it is very important that we have to have the ability to control when it comes to joint action, which is regulated by Article 4. There's no such thing, there's no such thing as a legal project. I don't mean the control of the Securities Commission, we need to have institutions that will be more serious about controlling the joint operation, because a large number of irregularities in taking over stemming from that. I think we even have provisions, I'm going to skip something, because I've taken a lot of time away from my colleagues, or institutes that we already have regulated in the company law. It is most evident in Articles 34 and 35 of this Act, where we have forced sales, that it is a forced purchase, that in a law that regulates the offer of a takeover, it is quite different from that of the Business Society Act, where it is regulated by members 446 and 447, where even deadlines are not agreed, and we all know that the Law on Economic Society is a system law, that the big problem in this law is Article 38, which regulates defence against takeover. I would not agree with my colleagues who require the Assembly to decide how the Management Board will react to the takeover offer, because it is quite unrealistic. It is, in fact, the avoidance and inability of self-defense to take over, because you know that the minimum time limit for an offer to take over is 21 days. What are the opportunities for the assembly to be convened, organized, to inform shareholders in the right way, and in addition, these shareholders chose the board of directors. He has a mission to work for small shareholders. Small shareholders are often not even referred to the very problem of takeover bids, they cannot realistically assess what the consequences can leave for their capital. Therefore, there is no reason to prevent the Management Board from going with defence from taking over. The defence against taking over would in any case mean an increase, i.e. the price of shares, which is another proof that whoever wrote this bill had no good intentions, when it comes to stock prices and small shareholders. It is very bad if these legal solutions, as they are conceived, allow the concentration of capital, because capital concentration in any case means closing down companies, means less trade in the financial market and less capital supply, and very high quality capital. When it comes to investment funds, I would say that it is deliberately late with this law so that the price of the stock will go down on the stock market as much as possible, that it is even a question of whether this law can live. Many MPs have praised him, but why investment funds if they have nothing to trade. If you haven't put out portfolios, big company investment funds won't have anything to trade on that financial market. Therefore, the issue is the development policy of the complete financial market and the question is whether this law makes any serious sense. As far as limitations are concerned, I think 10% is too much of a percentage, that it is necessary to reduce it to 5%, especially at the initial stage, until the law is revived, because as much as possible diversified the risk; that it is very problematic and unregulated trade between investment funds, because it is common in countries in our environment; that investment funds trade between themselves and thus create some virtual profits and provide themselves with large profits, profits for management, but not profits for those citizens who invest money in these investment funds. It is necessary for the Committee on Securities to be closer to the office, as well as the tariff, and it is absolutely certain that, with this law, we must bring much more stringent regulation when it comes to investment advisers. Without good and high-quality investment advisors, this law cannot liven up and know the ultimate owners of investment funds. This is very important for the control of the entire financial market. As I said, there will be plenty of stories about these laws, they are extremely important for the Serbian economy. We'll have a chance to explain everything, in any case, I have to say in advance that this is not enough, not nearly what the SRS expected, and it waited two years ago and no doubt the SRS would not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26426	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26427	The Serbian Radical Party cannot support these bill proposals and we have submitted a large number of amendments. In the debate in particular, according to the members for which we have submitted the amendments, we will very specifically point out these shortcomings, and I will use the principle debate to prepare the public, as well as the MPs who support this concept or these concepts and try to convince them that this is conceptually wrongly set. You see, a month ago, elections were scheduled for President of the Bor municipality. Immediately after a few days, the Ministry of Ecology brought a solution and banned the melting plant from working because it pollutes the environment. Somebody's gonna think, "What's wrong with that?" It's probably nothing bad, but in the last 80 years, the Ministry has had to exercise control more often, bring solutions and ban work. Why did it do that ten days ago? Because of the choice. So, something noble and well-exploited. If there were another consolidation of forces and you were not in any way in power in Panchev, but that you were in opposition by any chance, and that only DS and their Mikovic were in power, the citizens of Pancheva would probably be honored with a solution, where Petrochemy and Rafineria are forbidden to do something, because almost all the MPs present in the National Assembly, who came from Pancheva, appealed, prayed, could not breathe, do something, resuscitate. But the government kept quiet. Local elections will not be discussed, because there are all of them together – DSS, DS, G17 plus, leagues, gimmicks, winks, etc. Why is this introduction important? It's the same in these four laws, the exact same thing. What is the characteristic of these four laws? That the terms and terms of the directive are visibly overloaded, but we do not understand how it is possible for the Government to sign the law of Miroljub Labus, a representative of the Government of Mladjan Dinkic, and at a time when this was written and went to the Assembly one came out of the government, because we are away from the EU and the other offers us some fairy tales here: we are about to enter the EU, all this is in line with EU directives. It's probably necessary to answer that, but you'll find some answer, I'm not interested in it right now. It's interesting that the public knows what this is about. Those who remain in the government and those who flee from the government are for the EU, and you see for yourself, we have no opinion on who is on that right path. All four laws are burdened by these terms, terms known to the professional public. However, the problem with all laws is that there is no connective tissue between members. They're just piled up. The MPs from this pay phone supported this bill and what they pointed out, the basis for the Investment Fund Act, is that the citizen was not given the opportunity to invest extra funds in a fund and there is much more to it than he would get from the bank, in the name of savings interest. It just sounds nice. How realistic is that? The explanation contains this reality, and it is estimated that there are between three and four billion euros in citizens, and if it is inserted into living, the economy will flourish. I ask the question, which goods can make more money than the interest the bank gives? The bank credits the economy, takes some interest, so the economy works, and it also needs to produce, sell, earn, settle all costs, pay both interest to the bank and earn shareholders of the company. Now there's another institution here that will guarantee even more. There is a possibility that much more money can be made from free funds that are being placed somewhere through some investment fund, and we don't know where they are being placed, and we don't need to know specifically, but we have to know what kind of environment we live in, where these funds go and who's going to use them and start these investment funds. We'll get an answer to that question. It's just been said that we haven't had investment funds so far. We had, every brokerage house had its own investment fund, but that's not his name. Since the issue of taking over actions and businesses was undefined and there we had investment funds. How? Undercovered. That's where they were made and appeared, in accordance with the Bonds Act, some consortiums, a paper-made quasi-legal face. Speaking of the Investment Funds Act, it's all good, but there's no responsibility of the Investment Fund Management Society anywhere. There's a rumor here that the Investment Fund is making a bigger contribution, and what if that fund breaks? For what? Because of the society that manages it, because of some members who force the management company to place funds in some projects, regardless of what percentage and where and what these funds can be invested for. You almost don't have any liability provisions. Think about it. After this law on taking action, which you will vote on, the question arises, why is it not in the package and the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Company Act? In the good part of his provisions, he considers legal fate actions. Why isn't a relationship made? It is not said: the adoption of this law does not apply the provisions of the Business Society Act. It's not just status, it's got a lot of provisions that talk about traffic. Isn't traffic action also taking over a stock company? That's out of the question. That's not what the Proposer is interested in. He has a mission to fulfill. So three to four billion, apparently, should come. The same Dinkic, who wrote a book in 2000, said there was an estimate that there were two billion marks held in the straws, so when that dinar-mark goes across the bank, it will come out, and especially in the next stage when the stamps changed for the euro. A total of seven, eight billion marks have changed. When everything was taken and collected, there was some difference of nearly three billion. From where? Probably from abroad. Everyone who says this is going to be arranged is wrong. It will not be arranged, but we will only have one forest of regulations, a large number of norms that will be unknown to many people, but will allow them to hunt. Who? Those who insist that these laws be passed in this process. You see, when you add up the provisions of all the laws, it's probably over 400 members, if not even 500. Someone thought the MPs were geniuses, that they could spend the Easter holiday reading not only this one but that 550. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which was delivered literally on the eve of Easter. This law on the securities market also, so emergency procedure immediately, all urgent. Someone's in a hurry. As soon as someone's in such a hurry, it means something's wrong. Do we need financial market regulations? They did. What do we have to do with these regulations? Anything about the financial market. In what way? Completely. Why? So that the state can make a commitment and guarantee the rights and obligations of those who comply with this law. Does the state with this bill get that authority and obligation? Not entirely, it gets partial. How will the state guarantee that these are good solutions, enforceable, applicable and that everyone will respond if they violate any of these provisions. There's nothing to guarantee. Since we also had a united discussion yesterday and two draft laws, I remind you of the other one - on more effective copyright protection. He was another minister at the time, and he didn't even read the law, and he doesn't even know there are amendments. There was a speech about inspection, because the whole law is inspection. So it's written that if you want inspection, you have to file a request, and the inspection works on official duty. However, a procedure under official duty is also envisaged, but it is only five members, and at the request of the party 30 members. Inspector Kobajagi's doing something, and when she's done it, then you, as the owner of the law, have to sue and exercise some rights. If I were an author who would protect his rights under that law, I would write a letter immediately to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and say, "Please don't pass any law." If I have to play sheriff and go from the store to the store and see if there's a sign of my company on my wardrobe, or if someone put that sign on it. The whole New Market just puts signs, then I don't need any inspections. I'll chase, film, run the procedure myself. It's similar here. A large number of provisions, allegedly something very serious and only one small problem, lacks connective tissue between members, there are left holes, and there they will swim, who, who, same, they and what they come out and what they remain, and are always on their way to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26428	The word has been made by the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. He's got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there is little time, I will shorten my reasoning and since other MPs of the SRS have clearly and concretely said what is wrong with the law, or with the laws on the agenda, I will not speak in particular. I'd just say the basic reason, for all the laws you're proposing here, and especially these four, why you don't have to vote and why you don't have to adopt them, and the basic reason is that you defend and bring them. In the past, you've been very infamous, even lately, and in connection with Mr. Minister, when you want to scare some bank manager, company manager, anyone, even children are afraid of Mr. Dinkic. Although, they laugh, you remember that fish-eating show, but the point is, six years from now, you've brought all kinds of laws here and you've done a miracle. So, some of the people I talked to say that you're ignorant, and I don't think that's just it, because the fact that it is, because after two years, it's all been noticed and seen, so there's a result that others notice. You are, I would call it so, and I am sorry that Mr. Minister is not here, you are a good servant, and if I asked you, you would say to the nation, and I would only ask whose country, because you are not our people, you are not our people either. Hopefully, it is the goal of every government and every minister to make the people live better, to open jobs and have bigger salaries, and see where we are right now. So, after your six-year reign, you see where we've come from. Your constant story in the adoption of every law is: the law will contribute, and then it will go – increasing funding, income, increasing this and that, and as we see and feel after all, there is nowhere to be found. Just to remind me what you've been doing in the past since the destruction of our banks, from destroying all our good companies, because no company that's been increased is good, or just destroyed, you've increased our debts from 8 to 9 billion to 15 billion, and there's less and less new companies that show up. You know, last year you even tried to report people working at the market as new firms, so there was some increase, but this year there's no such thing as that. Import lobby hara, we've already shown a million times what you're doing and what you're importing, a good commission is known, and in G17 plus there's no problem getting any permission or anything to do. The transfer funds that exist and that you've introduced, they only get your people, so where you have power, there's no standard, it's enough to be bold and rude and to be a member of G17 plus. That there are no concrete arguments, as you've heard there are, but there are no concrete arguments based on previous experience, which we had with all the laws you've proposed, the fact is that these laws should not be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26430	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. He's not here. Then the word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the shortness of time left for the SRS parliamentary club, I will not repeat everything our MPs have said wisely, but I will not repeat what is not wise and what some other MPs have said. I'm just going to criticise one segment of this charter law. Both MP groups, G8.5% plus and G8.5% minus, participated in the draft law, because they were then unique and were called G17 plus, but some of the things that stick around here, the National Bank of Serbia and the state of Serbia, can go off the market without public offerings to buy and sell securities of value. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it also means that Jelasic, who is governor of the National Bank, will remind you, is the one Jelasic bought for 12,000 euros by the Mercedes who crossed 20,000 from the Jugobank Fund when he was selling the Jugobank a year old; this is the same one Jelasic who bought that villa on Dedinj, a villa or something freshest; this is the same Jelasic, to whom he now carried that 100,000-euro bag. He will be able to buy and sell records of values owned by the National Bank of Serbia without a public offer. Furthermore, I would also like to remind you, but there is no minister, however, perhaps he left, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, to explain to wartime men with nearly 5,000 before the government of Serbia and who came to seek their rights, bleeding to defend this country, left without health, and now literally bring them down to the beggar stick Dinkic and similar to him, and I guess by the system of that people's parable "They'll all gild it," they need to come out to beg, so they can eat. That's exactly what happens when the state is led by those who don't care about the state or the people. I would remind him of the National Savings Bank, as it was created, as it was sold, and I would remind him of the Euroaxis Bank, where he held $50,000, or the euro, of the country's foreign reserves, and the Euroaxis Bank bought those funds with the actions of the National Savings Bank, and he bought it with 7,600 squares of the highest quality business space throughout Serbia the same "National Savings", and then when they closed the circle, they sold it. Then new owners appear, new shareholders, and many hidden shareholders, if only names could be found, would be found precisely in this encrypted interest group. I would remind you of the HVB Bank where it held the country's foreign reserves, and then the bank bought charters of the value of the state, from deposits, from a pair of Serbian states, and now the HVB Bank has become the owner of these securities. State money was purchased from government bonds and securities of value without public offering. There's one more thing that hasn't been said, what about the old government debt, I mean the debt of those banks that this government took to bankruptcy after the "bulldozer revolution"? This debt appears on the market without a public offering. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think in voting day, no matter how many amendments we've made, with so many amendments, this law cannot be improved and I suggest you press the red button in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26432	There's only a minute and a half left. Anyone else want a word? National MP Milos Disic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26433	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I'd like to ask you to extend that time a little bit, you probably didn't calculate well. What about the law? There's a lot that's been said about the law. I don't want to spend a little time on it, all I'm saying is that I don't trust whoever wrote it and explained it today, just because it's pretty bad said. All representatives of the parliamentary groups have largely had objections to him and I join them there. I can't trust Minister Dinkic that all of this will be well, because I have to remind him of his visit to India 20 days ago. That is why I cannot believe that this law will come into force and that Serbian citizens will benefit from it. Since Mr Dinkic has so many problems at his MP club and has to take care of them, unfortunately, he is not here, I will try to deliver through his representatives this documentation that is related to India and what he praises in the Indji municipality. I must, for the sake of the citizens of India alone, ask for his public apology from this pay phone, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the citizens of India. These days, we have witnessed that Mr Dinkic has said that the Indji municipality has gone ahead with other municipalities in Serbia for 20 years. I agree with that, but only in one sphere, in the sphere of crime and corruption, far away, perhaps 50 years from the others. What does Mr. Dinkic support? I must point out to you that MPs and citizens of Serbia know. There's a crime in the Indji community and nothing else is going on. There were companies that came to find space to build factories and offered about 1,500 jobs in the Indji municipality. What happened? These days these people went, made firms where they were better, where people from local self-government might not have asked for commissions. One such firm is one German firm that was supposed to build a thousand jobs facility for producing low-voltage and high-voltage parts. They went to Sremska Mitrovica, because they were asked only for empty land in India, with nothing at all, about 19 to 22 euros, and they received it for six euros in Mitrovica. The "Don Coffee" was supposed to drive in India, in Novi Karlovac, not far from India, 12 euros per square. They went to the Shimanovs and got six euros each. These days we're listening to a story about how some Italian firm needs to open up a power plant from 20 jobs. That's not gonna happen. The famous spa in India, which was to be made, has nothing to do with it, because the company that came from England and offered the latest conditions... (President: Time.) I've extended you a minute and a half, but please bring it to an end. I'm bringing the end. One new Indjia, next to the Indjia itself, needs to pop up. England's firm has been asked for so much commission that people have turned around and gone, left unsigned documents. I have to show, because of the public and the MPs sitting here and listening, I would ask you to look at this: The Chamber of Commerce of Srema, February 2006, the latest statistics say that in such a good Indjia municipality, which Mr Dinkic praises – "national income per capita in Europe for the municipality of Indji is 983,3 euros, and compared to Serbia it is 60.28%". All municipalities in Srem, and this can be seen well here, are above 1,500 euros. If it's so good, I don't see how Mr. Dinkic can lie and deceive the public. He's the biggest "expert", we heard he's an expert on financial matters. I don't believe that either. Now he's entered another area, which is the area of lies and deception. The Srema Chamber of Commerce table says that the number of unemployed citizens in the municipality of Indji is 10,000, which has 50,000 inhabitants, and in Sremska County only Mitrovica has 100,000 inhabitants and 12,000 unemployed. If good work was done in the Indji municipality, the results wouldn't be like this. Since time is up, I don't want the chairman to warn me anymore, I'll let this be handed over to Mr Dinkic. There are a lot of things here that are illegal. Since I asked a parliamentary question from this pay phone, and I didn't get an answer, Mr. Minister sent someone from the ministry and controlled the budget in the Indji municipality and it is said that nothing that was done outside the law was found there. This is where I delivered the documents saying that it was actually done against the law there. Mr Dinkic must publicly apologize to Serbian and Indija citizens for their lies. (Chairman: Please finish.) ) Once again, I must say that the Municipal Court has unblocked the account of the JKP "water and sewerage" in India through the President of the Municipal Court, who I hear will be removed these days. When Mr Dinkic was in Indjija a month and a half ago, he agreed to do so, so he put the President of the Municipal Court under ice, and that man will be, they say, removed these days because he unblocked the account of the JKP "water and sewerage", and the executive ruling of the Sremska Mitrovica Trade Court. Imagine what Mr. Dinkic is doing and what his job is. Is this really what the people of India need to put up with? No, the Indovod and sewerage JKP from India is not wrong, it has not contributed to losing the 74m dispute, and now it is up to it to lose a 1,240,000-euro dispute. Imagine, if it is prevented, that the minister is doing such a job, then here I apologize to the citizens of Serbia and India for having to bring this up. (President: Time.) I thank you for your patience. I would ask the ministry gentlemen to take this and hand it over to Mr Dinkic, because I see he's not here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26434	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26435	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleagues from the SRS have made several more remarks on this set of draft laws regarding the regulation of the securities market. The promoter, or government, continues that story on October 5th, in part that all those actions that have been doing during the past period, put under the law, so as not to bear certain sanctions, and in part that through these three laws, according to their estimates, the amount of 3.5-4 billion euros in citizens simply comes to him by various financial speculations. That this is also seen in Article 62(4), where it is said: "If the government act is not otherwise defined, the provisions of this law on trade in securities of value on an organised market do not apply: 1) to transfer of property without compensation on actions issued by banks, from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic under the Law on the regulation of relations between SRJ and legal persons and banks from the territory of the SRJ which are original debtors or guarantors according to Paris and the London Club; 2) to the trade of actions issued by banks when the legal holder of those actions is the Republic under the Law on the regulation of relations between SRJ and legal persons and banks from the territory of the SRJ which are primary debtors or guarantors according to the Paris and London Club and the Law on the regulation of public debt of SRJ on the basis of foreign currency savings." What kind of debts are these? On October 5th, there was a part of the debt that no one could dispute. The truth is that there was a part of the debt to various international financial organisations, such as the Paris and the London Club. There was a legal obligation to pay off that money. A part of that debt was bought by the SRJ at the time when international sanctions were imposed, ten cents for a dollar of debt, and a large part of it was not able to prove that it owed SRJ. At that moment, the then vice-president of the federal government and later the Republic government, now former president of the G17 plus, with various international financial organisations, has made a reform of the SRJ debt, which we did not have to recognise. By signing the reprogramme, creditors are given the right, i.e. they are legally regulated as the owners of the debt they seek towards the SRJ, and now to the Republic of Serbia. In order to enable foreign banks to have a single monopoly that they are entering at that time, a step further is being taken, and banks that are mostly in social property are closing down. Apparently, if the situation arises that they have to return the loans they have raised with various international organisations, they will question the stability of dinars, the economy of the country and that is the reason for the resolution of these debts. Later we have a law on banks in liquidation and bankruptcy, which again recognises these debts no longer as bank debts in bankruptcy, but rather the debts of the Republic of Serbia. Now these debts that no one had to admit - the object of trading paper of value. Who's the guarantee? The Republic of Serbia. Who's going to get rich? The one who bought them during that period between the proposal of this law which is now, between the Debt Act of Banks that are in bankruptcy and liquidation. Who made the most of it? Most of it was won by the National Savings Centre, Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Also, when it comes to bonds of old foreign exchange savings, they have come to single capital, often paying 40 and 50 cents for a dollar of debt. They had certainly debtors - the state of the Republic of Serbia, and the most damaged are those citizens who are because of various situations: losing jobs, closing firms, privatisations, etc. We ran out of bread and those bonds sold pretty cheaply. When certain financial, or political pressures are put on these gentlemen, they decide to make another good business move, which is that "National Savings Bank", now as majority owners, they sell. They found a buyer - Eurobank, and at that time the state, or the Ministry of Finance, is not responding. They know about the negotiations, not to sell their own part, but to a bank that goes into full privatisation, because the sale of the property part raises the value of the bank on the one hand, and on the other hand the price of the shares is shot down individually. Mrs. Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic would receive less money individually. When the transaction is completed without the Republic of Serbia, then the finance ministry decides to sell it, only now are the shares much cheaper than when the transaction between the Eurobank and the National Savings Bank was made. That's what it looks like on the securities market, and that's how all sorts of speculators get rich. Now the goal is to do so, to have that money that remains with the citizens in a certain way in the possession of financial speculators. It is already seen in Article 80, where it is said that the money share of the stock exchange's core capital cannot be less than 1m euros in dinar equivalent, according to the official middle rate of the National Bank of Serbia's dinar, on the day of payment. Now someone should say: you know what, the stock market is one serious market and there is a need for a more serious amount as basic capital, and already in Article 113 it is said that 300,000 euros are needed for the vanbersan organisation of the paper market. Now we have small shareholders who will be in certain investment funds, will place some of their money with a promise that they will get better interest and conditions than banks can give them speculations on the stock market to get the value of some shares growing or falling at certain times. We also have people who have already made a lot of money in previous financial transactions. What happens in that case, if the stock market or the organizer of the vanbersan sale of securities is proven responsible for the damage caused? There are no criminal provisions for such a situation in this law. It's for fake prospectuses, etc. It says it's forbidden. Yes, but what, how and in what way does that ban apply? So the only thing that can be done is to sue the stock market or organizer of the vanbersan market to compensate for the damage. If there is no other capital other than founding capital, and it will not, it will be able to compensate only for damages worth 300,000 euros, and it has earned several million. The stockbroker responsible for the damage can also be sued. The only thing that can be taken from him is his founding stake of a million euros, and yet he has earned several million. Here the most interesting member, or part of this law, is the commission, especially members: 226, 227, 232, 244, the way the commission is elected. Apparently, the constitution unregulated that the Commission could be an independent state body. Not now, in particular, we'll talk more about it. So, according to this interpretation, we would now have at least 50 or 60 amendments and additions to the law, where various agencies work as independent, and the authorities are state administrations and, according to this interpretation, do not work in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that it is only part of a political story, that the eyes of the MPs and the public that this law is extremely good, that it regulates relations in the securities market and that investors, especially those, are small, but their capital is about three or four billion euros, equal and able to operate under secure conditions. The goal is to make such a law of speculators that have so far acquired enormous wealth, which increases, to the detriment of small shareholders.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26436	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used his right, from Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments, - Proposal for a law on investment funds, - Proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies, and - Proposal for a law on accounting and audit. We're done with this agenda point, in principle. I'm setting a break to 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26437	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. We continue the afternoon work of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Public Scyalities (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 36 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus – 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds;, five MPs "For European Serbia" – 6 minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs – five minutes each on the basis of Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs and, of course, we are counting on the tolerance of professional services until the end of the presentation of the proposing representatives, since I see that they are all a little late. I would like to inform you that the representatives in front of the SRS parliamentary group, Zlatan Jovanovic, are in front of the DSS – Arsen Kurjački. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Just a moment, you allow, since it is not registered, but the question is to make it easier for the MPs to remind themselves of the exact order, the planned order of work the next days. So, as announced this morning, it will be done in accordance with Article 85 of Article 1 and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure, and extremely tomorrow, with the longest work to be done until the end of the principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Return of Church Property, tomorrow until the end of the debate, no longer. Resumption of the session whenever tomorrow, morning, afternoon or evening, anyway, will be Tuesday at 10.00, that's the plan. Of course, we'll have an official tomorrow, and today we're only working until the end of the agenda point, no matter what it's possible to end early. I understand what you're asking me. Thank you very much. Here you go, I hope we've all helped, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26438	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the bill that came to the Assembly a year ago, but precisely because of the fact that we practically adopted the Tourism Development Strategy in the previous month, this law has become very relevant in this context. I would just like to point out briefly that according to the Tourism Development Strategy, the development of mountain centres and ski tourism is one of the five most significant tourist products Serbia can offer, with this kind of tourism and this kind of development of the tourist product, skiing, demanding, of course, investment and requiring appropriate institutional support, which is precisely to be provided by one such law. I will briefly remind the MPs here that for the first time this year, the government will invest about 500 million dinars in tourism and municipal infrastructure in, some, nine regions in Serbia, including several mountainous regions such as Stara Planina, Golia, Divcibara, Zlatibor, Zlatar and Tara. So, practically, nearly 400 million will almost go to these purposes, which is for the first time in the last ten years, as far as I know, that the government has started investing in the development of tourism and municipal infrastructure. Under these projects, the Stara Planina is recognised as one of the absolute priorities, with huge potential and for the development of undeveloped areas and for the development of mountain tourism, with the potential of investments of several hundred million euros. But in order to achieve this, one such law as an institutional framework is needed, it is necessary to form an enterprise, a public company for the management of public ski resorts and it is necessary for the state to invest previously in the development of tourism and municipal infrastructure, as preconditions for more serious investment investments in the second phase. What really motivated us, after this introduction, to pass one of these laws? Decisions of the Draft Law have an impact on both organisations currently managing or managing ski resorts in the future and skiers and other skiers. They regulate all the issues of importance for the work of ski centres and the behaviour of ski users. The draft solutions provide a clear legal framework for the business of ski centres, ensure safety in ski resorts and encourage the development of winter tourism services in the Republic. Without proper arrangements, maintenance and equipment of the public ski resort, it is not possible to develop winter tourism and winter sports in the Republic, nor are there possible foreign investments in this area without an appropriate legal environment. A number of foreign companies' interests in investing in Serbia's ski centres have mostly failed due to the lack of a clear legal framework for the construction, arrangement and use of the ski resort. The draft law on public ski resorts has been prepared for a very long time, with a professional consultation, with all the professional organisations and ski centres that deal with this business and in this sense has been provided, it can be said freely, some kind of consensus on this law. Of course, after the law is passed, the law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of adoption in the Assembly, we will have six months for appropriate transitional and final provisions. Let me also say that, given that the proposal has been over a year, the Tourism Development Strategy has just imposed the need for the Serbian government to establish two amendments. These are amendments to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 5 of the Law. Amendments to Article 4. The government, in fact, determines public ski resorts, i.e. areas suitable for regulating public ski resorts that are of particular importance for the development of winter sports activities, based on a special act proposed by the Ministry of Tourism Affairs. So these establish public ski resorts and make a difference between public ski resorts whose use, construction and management is of general interest, and other ski resorts that are of local importance. This is one of the proposals that came from the Strategy, given the experiences and solutions of others, especially countries where ski tourism is one of the most important tourist products. The amendments to Article 5 also found that the activities of the organisation, maintenance, equipment, management and use of the public ski resort, as well as the management of areas suitable for the management of public ski resorts are of general interest. In order to carry out these activities, in accordance with the Law on Public Enterprises, the Government shall establish a public undertaking to manage these ski resorts and that is the essential institutional paper it amends to the draft law adopted by the Government. This will create preconditions for providing technical and technological, economic and management unity of the ski system and more intensive development of mountain tourist centres. Also, out of about thirty amendments, on behalf of the Government, we can accept, some, six amendments, which technically contribute significantly to improving the text of the law. Just a little further to explain the proposed solutions. Articles 1 to 6 define the concepts used in the law and establish that the ski centre is required to ensure the use of the ski resort under equal conditions to all users. It is precisely determined which winter sports activities can be celebrated on ski resorts. Articles 7 to 17 identify the basic elements of the ski resort, which as a complex object can consist of one or more ski tracks, ski-polygons, ski-roads, lifts, cableways, infrastructure networks, service facilities, snow and service machinery, service roads, own energy facilities, etc. The members from 19th to 21st are marked ski resorts, ski trails and lanes for motorcycle sleds and predict the classification and marking of ski trails, depending on the degree of weight and properties of the area through which the track is provided. Members of 22nd and 23rd regulate the issue of the ski centre's obligation to maintain a ski resort, both during the ski season and during the period when ski resorts do not work. Members from 24th to 26th arrange questions about the obligation to set up appropriate signalling on ski resorts. The members of the 27-32s shall regulate the issue of the use of ski transport means, as well as the obligation of the ski centre to mark the mechanism for the regulation of ski paths in an appropriate manner. Members from 33rd to 40th regulate the issues of the use and operation of the ski resort. Members from 41st to 50th regulate first - aid and rescue services. Members from 51st to 58th regulate security and order issues at the ski resort. Members from 62nd to 68th deal with issues related to the teaching of skiing. Articles 69 to 71 shall contain supervision and administrative measures. Oversight is carried out by a tourist inspection, and criminal provisions are adapted to the Law of Infringements. These are the basic elements of the content of the law and we thought it was necessary to introduce you to a brief proposal on the content of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26439	Mr. Minister, this is not pressure during the legislative process, but, as I have examined, by official duty, and the law, which has been standing for a long time, as you have said, and the amendments that have arrived, simply, I warn that the amendments are being reviewed once more, because I have obtained the impression that the amendments have been written by a skier, and that the law has not been written by a skier and that there is a whole series of amendments that concern essentially, not all legislative regulations, but rather the linguistics, accurate, precise commitment to what is really going on in the ski routes, and for that you will have time, you or representatives from the Ministry, until the beginning, or the conclusion of the debate in particular, which will probably be only at the end of next week, so that, simply, to pay attention. Thank you for understanding. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? The word is by Rajko Baralic, president of the Committee on Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26440	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I apologize for not having a report on the law on public ski resorts in principle. It's not because the Committee's session wasn't held, it's because the Committee has so-called. construction error. For the tenth time, I'm asking everyone who's competent to remove this mistake. The Committee on Trade and Tourism numbers 11 members. The government forms or supports 129 MPs, and those in the Committee have five representatives. The other parties have 121 MPs and have six representatives on the Committee. Indeed, I have no objection to the initiative to show a higher degree of democracy, a contribution to the development of parliamentary practice and the improvement of parliamentary practice in our country, but the Committee on Trade and Tourism has been completely prevented from working in quality. Unnecessarily spends great energy, it is the representatives of the Government and the members of the Committee who want to work, not entering the legitimate right of members of opposition parties who simply do not want to give a quorum for the work of the Committee, it is their right, it is legitimate and I am not pollemising and I do not dispute it, but please, in the second grade of the primary school learn that 129 is more than 121 and I am truly completely discouraged, 14 or 15 sessions we have held so far making different concessions, spending a great amount of time and great energy. If there is the strength to correct this, there is, if necessary, this committee has to be made clear, and if not, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to abolish the Committee. There's no need for a committee that needs to beg someone to secure the quorum, so the session can formally begin. We held a session this morning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we could not declare the law in principle, and we will not be able to declare the amendments that have been submitted to the law, which are of great quality and which the members of the Committee would probably have anything to say. The Committee was the parent board for several very important laws in the area of trade and tourism. There are still a few laws waiting for him to enter the assembly procedure, such as the banish law, there will be a law on trade, there will be others. We passed four laws in the area of trade and tourism last year. So there is a great legislative activity in this area, and we are practically prevented from doing our job normally and responsibly. When it comes to the law itself, here you are, Mr. President, let me just take a little detour with you. It's not true at all that those who took part in writing the law aren't, as you say, skiers. I will remind you that the Committee on Trade and Tourism, as one of the participants of the OSCE pilot programme in 2005 from 18 to 20 March, is with the participation of the Institute of Architecture and Urbanism, the Faculty of Sports and Physical Education, with the presence of Mr Robert Ropret, who is head of the Department for these sports at this university, with the president of the most important associations in this area, such as the Supervisory Board for Instructors, skiers, etc. and that I do not list all others, therefore, with the presence of the directors of ski centres and others and, of course, with the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Trade and Sports and People's MPs who were interested, sports journalists and the Department of Sports, for three days has been trying in detail to find the best possible solutions in one area that is delicate, because someone can be made unnecessary, that it is a waste of time. On ski paths and ski resorts, there is a very live traffic and a high frequency, so there are high risks of people getting hurt and that a whole series of other complications are also being found at the time, and I am asking everyone in charge of Serbia who is missing the cable bill. When I talk about the wire, it's about the elevators. It is an important law that, following the adoption of this law, the competent ministry should propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and round this issue because it is important, because it is a matter of the security of a large number of citizens and not just participants in sports. So here I spoke as president of the Committee or as so-called. President of the so-called The board, because he can't work formally. I ask everyone who understood what I was talking about here to help us promote the Committee, in accordance with the schedule of political power, political will in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can carry out our constitutional and legal activities uninterrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26441	Thank you. I realized that in that sense, this was so-called. The controversy, because you've actually given your exact information about what you know, and I've made my impression. That's right. Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the previous speaker, I must agree with the opinion of Mr. President of the Assembly, that this bill was written by someone who was not a skier or someone who only saw skiing on television. In fact, this legal text, which waits a year and a half to enter the procedure, i.e. Parliament, is essentially general, to a large extent confusing and without concrete things. It's also funny in many segments. We have not learned anything about the legal text itself from Mr. Minister's scrupulous presentation, but we have learned something that is new to us MPs. It is information that the government has adopted a strategy for tourism development, which we have not yet seen, that is information that the government has submitted two amendments to this legislative proposal, which we MPs have also not seen. What matters is that these amendments, at least in the words of Mr. Minister, change the essence of this legislative proposal significantly. That's why it was correct for them to be delivered in good time so we could keep them in mind when we wrote the amendments. The law itself, as the minister said, consists of five wholes. First – basic provisions, second – editing, marking, use and security at the ski resort, third – supervision, fourth – criminal provisions and fifth – transitional and final provisions. I will try, in the time that I have, to make the observations of the SRS parliamentary group on this law, to point to certain parts or provisions that are not logical in our opinion and to invite MPs to accept at least most of the SRS amendment, in order to correct this text and become acceptable. In the first part, the basic provisions were defined some alleged basic terms which were later used in the text of the law. However, there is a problem here that is said to be defined and some concepts that are trivial in themselves, which should not be specifically explained and defined, such as the concept of skiing, the concept of skier, competitor, etc. Some terms, which later appear in the text, have been left out of these basic provisions. For example, the concept of ski-dog, ski-area, ski center, runway, these are concepts that later appear in the text without knowing what they specifically mean, because in basic terms they are not mentioned at all. Later, they are important for the correct interpretation of the proposed law. In Article 3, we have several concepts and their meanings that are pointless and even ridiculous. In Article 3(2), it says:'skiing is a winter sport activity of a recreational or competitive character consisting of alpine skiing, Nordic skiing or snowboarding'. I don't think it was necessary to talk about this at all, I guess it's clear, and I'm saying, a trivial concept of skiing. Then, point 4) skier, he says, "The skier is a natural person who is involved in the recreation of skiing on a ski slope or is on a ski course for skiing." What else could be a skier? He can't be a legal person, he can't be on a track with some other desire than skiing. Can't be called a skier in that case. Point 5) says: "The ski track is a decorated and marked area of the ski resort, intended for skiing and skiing teaching, which is served by one or more cableways". Why does this even stand in this text explaining the ski track, and it can be a ski track and without a wire? There is no need to write in the very explanation that it can be served by one or more cablemen. It reads at point 17: "ski-lift is a means of high-speed skier's tow in the snow uphill." Well, I haven't seen a ski lift pulling skiers downhill yet. Article 5 reads: "The Ski Centre is established as a business company, company, institution or entrepreneur and is registered in an appropriate register in accordance with the law". It's all right. Today, however, we have heard that there are amendments that plan to establish public businesses for the management of ski resorts. This does not appear in the original or valid bill. The second position of Article 5 states: "The ski centre manages a ski resort, i.e. areas suitable for the organisation of a ski resort, which, in accordance with the law, are declared spaces of importance for tourism." I'm saying again, there's a problem, and this is probably in line with the Strategy, which we haven't seen yet, but it's not in line with the concrete context of this law. It has already been stated here that a government government is likely to determine the space to be arranged for ski resorts, but it leaves the possibility for entrepreneurs to be the owners of ski centres. Please, who will prevent and disable the man who owns the property on which a ski center can be built to register and open a ski center. Or whether the ski resort will be a public ski resort, if the government has not established that there are conditions for the formation, i.e. the establishment of a ski resort in that area. In other words, I guess every ski resort intended for skiers, citizens, is a public ski resort. Now we hear it's not, but this doesn't show that it isn't, it can't be seen from this, and you've changed the essence of this bill by amendments. 'We have also heard now that the government has already identified some priorities in Serbia, i.e. areas that will develop and invest in the next period, with the aim of creating ski centres. I am glad that among them is Mount Tara, as one of the mountain beautyesses in Serbia. The second part – editing, marking, using and security on the ski resort. Article 9 states: "The ski paths on ski resorts must be wide enough, transparent enough, with an appropriate slope and height difference and prepared so that there are no holes, drills, stone complexes or other dangerous places." I don't know what it means broad enough, I don't know what it means with the right slope. Or why this is not prescribed in the legal text itself, but it may be left to someone else to do so in some sublaw. I'm talking about because in this legal text, there are a lot of details that shouldn't be in the law, which are included here, and there aren't some elements that seem to me, by my deep conviction, important and should be prescribed by law, and not to be prescribed later by other sublaws. This was also referred to by Article 23, which states that these technical conditions will be prescribed by the ministers responsible for tourism, sports and traffic. I don't know how all of this will work out for three ministers, three ministries, since, lastly, the minister of traffic these days is engaged in Užica where he promises, by his old custom, the roads of citizens around Užica, given that there are, hopefully, elections for the president of the municipality in the coming period. The second part of this continent, i.e. the marking of the trails, is that the paths must be marked and the paths classified. It means: easy paths, medium heavy, heavy, extremely heavy. It is prescribed that they must also be marked, but no criteria are indicated on the basis of which the weight of each track will be determined. It was once again left to do so by some sublegal act, the minister prescribes, determines, and I personally think it should have been in the legal text itself. It's still an important category. Here in Article 19, point 4, is mentioned, extremely heavy runway. I don't know why the runway, if all these are other paths, why would this be a runway? And nowhere before, and not even later, the runway was mentioned in this bill. Or, for example, the third position in the same article 19 says, "The markings must be so set that they are more than snow." If they're not more than snow, then they're not markings, they're no use. Furthermore, I have already mentioned Article 23, which states that three ministers will sit down and agree on some technical conditions that must meet the routes, i.e. they use to edit, mark and maintain the ski resort. I have a certain amount of doubt that this will be done in the time foreseen by the law, because it will be very difficult to bring all three different ministries into line. Article 28 speaks about the maintenance, i.e. the transportation on the ski slope itself, and speaks specifically about the mechanism for the regulation of the ski track. It's in the first position that a ski-track adjustment mechanism can be used at a time when cablers and ski-lifts don't work. This formulation suggests that they are commonly used in other terms, and they can also be used in this one, when the cablers are not working. I think this is badly formulated and that it should be prescribed that the mechanization for track editing should be used mandatory when the cablers and elevators do not work, extremely, it stands in the next position, it can be used at a time when the cablers work, but there must be adequate conditions for the protection of skiers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26443	Excuse me, are you using another 10 minutes? Here you go. Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26444	I say how ridiculous and illogical the provisions of this law are, and even in certain cases, funny. Article 31 says, "Transport by cable is a form of public transport and is carried out according to a defined driving order, which must be prominently highlighted at the starting and final station." I am asking the minister to listen to me: let's accept that it is a form of public transportation, because he's transporting skiers, but if he's seen it anywhere, if he's ever been to the ski resort, the order of the cable car. The cable company is a form of continuous transport. So there's no order of driving, there's only a term in which the wire works: from 9:00 or 10.00 in the morning or to 4:00 or 17.00 in the afternoon. It's about continuous transport, so there's no order to drive. On the other hand, and ski-dog, like that card you buy to ski, to use cable, is valid for a period of time and is bound for a day, two or three, is not related to the number of driving, so you can't talk about order driving, but something similar appears in the subsequent provisions of this law. Furthermore, Article 32 says: "The ski centre can interrupt the operation of a cable car or a ski lift only when a responsible person or director confirms that no face is using a cable car or a ski lift anymore. This is a very serious provision and important. Why? On serious ski resorts the trails are long, the cableways are long, usually not transparent, so the director at the beginning or end of the track doesn't see the whole wire all the way. I wrote the amendment that it is necessary for the director to take the control drive at the end of the work of the cabler, to determine that there are no skiers on the wire, or on the track. This definition does not indicate it, but indicates that at 16.45 a.m., the last skier leaves the wire, there is no one left, and whether the last one has reached the top or not, no one knows. Furthermore, Article 33 says that the ski centre can perform activities, i.e. jobs related to the use of ski resorts under certain conditions, and points 2 states: 'to provide the service of maintaining order on the ski slope and to arrange order on the ski resort'. Again something that doesn't make sense, which isn't beautifully formulated, how order is arranged. So the order can be prescribed, written, established, determined, but regulated by order, I don't think it's an adequate expression to stand in one legal text. Article 34 says: "The ski centre must ensure that the ski resort is equipped: 1) with the appropriate number of machinery and track preparation and maintenance devices, proportionate to the number and size of the trails; 2) with a sounding device such that it can be effectively used on the ski resort". It is now not prescribed who will determine what the corresponding number of machines is and what is the appropriate strength of this sounding device or device, which will be adequate for the appropriate ski resort. We just had technical conditions where it was said that the three ministries would be closer to regulating the terms of the sublaw, but no longer mentioning who would later edit it, and the law here did not make it clear. Article 38(2) says, "The ski resort can work at night if there are technical and weather conditions and if the skier's safety is secured." It's all nice, but it's already in Article 15, and there's already a ski resort at night, there's no need to repeat the same provision twice. Article 39 reads: "Taxing and recreational skiing, ski training and other forms of ski activities cannot be done on ski slopes: 4) if there is not enough snow on the trails". I agree, but it is already said that skiing is done only if there is enough snow. The term - enough, remains unclear until the end, as it is not known who will prescribe it or assess what is enough snow on the track to allow the competition to take place and that it could be skied at all. Also, article 42 says, "The rescue service must have a proper number of rescue workers." Article 43rd final position: "Saviors must have the advantage of using wire." It is good, I agree, but it is not stated that they must be trained for skiing and must be in the rank of instructors, because the injured on the track can indicate or approach only skier, not someone who is not a skier. So the savior must be a skier and it should be a regular skier, at least in the ski instructor's rank. Furthermore, Article 45(3) says that if the ski area in which the ski resort is located does not operate the mountain rescue service, the ski centre has appropriate obligations. I just mentioned this because of the term "ski-area," which is first mentioned here. Nowhere has been explained before or said what it covers or what it represents in the'ski-area'. Furthermore, the ninth segment of this second chapter says: security and order at the ski resort, and the article 52 states: "The ski centre is obliged to have an employee with an appropriate sports professional calling for security care and order at the ski resort." Nowhere is prescribed what is the appropriate sporting professional calling. The following is said: "The head of the track must have passed the exam for the director". The article 53 again speaks of the director and the 2nd point says: "The redaric service can perform a person who has completed high school and who shows success on a special knowledge check." I guess "who passed the exam for the director" was already mentioned and the exam was later mentioned, and here it says "who shows success in the knowledge check". Furthermore, the director's authority, Article 54(4), says: "The director in the performance of his duties has been authorised to: inform the tourist inspector if you ski or another direct user of the ski resort does not adhere to the established order at the ski resort." How can this be done? Imagine a skier who throws a piece of paper or something else on the track, and then the director calls a tourist inspector, who is maybe 30 kilometers away or more, to inform him that he acted contrary to the rules of skiing on the track. What's the point of this, I don't get it at all. Point 6) says the director is authorized to deny one or more driving by a skier in his duties. How's he gonna deny him one ride? We said there was no driving number, the ski dog is valid for one day in the service hours of the cable company, in three days or seven days. What does a ride on a cable car mean? (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) ) Article 55. – ski obligations. Points 3), 4), 5, 6), 7) and 8) have been set aside as particularly pointless to stand by the law. Point 3 says that a skier is obliged to choose a line, or direction or direction, so that the skier who drives ahead does not endanger it, etc. Which one of you skiing from the top of the track chooses the direction of movement? No skier drives, at least those recreationals don't drive down the track, they go straight, they go wrong. (Chairman: Please, you've been over the clock for two minutes.) I apologize for quoting this. Point 5) says that when you want to take a ride on a track or when after stopping on a track, you have to make sure, by looking above and below, that there are no other skiers around it. These are the rules to be prescribed in some skier training rule, not the law. So, ski instructors, ski instructors should talk about this or teach students about this, not the law. I think this is too pointless for legal text. Furthermore, the skier's obligations again, which you can't ski, and at point 9) says, "The skier cannot: use the cabler if he doesn't have special knowledge or ability." When will a skier learn to use a cable car if he never starts using it? He's got to take that first step somewhere. I think that Article 56 should be deleted completely and prescribed as a rule or instruction for directors and instructors who train skiers during training, i.e. during the process of learning this skill. Article 57(3) speaks of ski security and says: "When a ski centre awaits a large number of skiers in the ski resort, it must inform the competent internal affairs authority in a timely manner and ask for additional help to maintain order". Please, I haven't met you at the ski resort yet or seen the riots at the ski resort. It's not a football derby between "Star" and "Partisan," so we can expect riots. There are mostly cultural people who came just for skiing. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please finish. I'm gonna skip some parts, just let me finish. Article 65 says, "The ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts to all skiing schools that have their headquarters in the local self-government unit on whose territory is a ski resort." Please, this is discrimination. You're making it impossible for all the schools that are out of the territory of a local unit where the ski resort is that they can even do that job in that place. This is purely discrimination and a complete member doesn't make sense. As far as surveillance is concerned, four ministries are overseeing this law. Only detailed instructions are given, instructions for tourist inspection, for the others there is nothing concrete about how they will be supervised. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I haven't seen any shorter laws or more criminal provisions. Here you have 40 penalties for legal persons and 12 penalties for natural persons, so, for skiers, for those who consume ski resort services. Finally, given that this law entered the procedure a year and a half ago, some deadlines relating to the past calendar year are prescribed here. I hope that the promoter corrected or accepted the amendments that we have submitted in this regard. Also, we have tried the amendments to shorten these deadlines that are foreseen in the transitional and final provisions. Why? Because it is important, it seems to me, if this law is adopted in the Assembly, that its application will begin from the next ski season, or winter season, from December 1st to apply it. If these deadlines are left in the text proposal, I don't think this is gonna make it to this season, and then this story doesn't make much sense right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26445	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Kurjački, authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26446	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues, was saying that this law was written by unprofessional people and that it was not processed at all. The minister said that, and I will confirm that, at the meeting organised at the Kopalnik in the construction of this law, there were indeed all those involved in this problem: from the representatives of the Ski Alliance, from the Faculty of Physical Culture, through the Association of ski instructors, the largest ski resort – Kopalnik, the "Genex" firm, which is the majority owner, JUTA representative, all of those tourist organisations that are directly involved in the organisation of tourist traffic, of course, to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, the Ministry of Sports and us MPs. It was a discussion, but in the end, when everything came down, two days later, it was concluded that this was an extremely good law and that it was extremely important for this matter to finally be regulated by law. So, what is the reason for the adoption of such a law, which has been in the process for two years, in the process of adopting, agreeing and working on two ministries, trade and tourism and sports. The reason is primarily that, we heard in the opening statement from the minister, which winter tourism has begun to develop so much that it becomes a serious business branch, that is, part of an economic branch called tourism and which is one of our prospects export chances. No matter how serious and detailed the things that need to be regulated, there are still many things that are not regulated and that will only be imposed on life. It will be regulated by sublaws, it's perfectly normal and natural, and that's how it's always done, especially when some matter is first regulated by law. What was the further reason for this law to be passed? One of the very important reasons is safety, and I'll tell you later when I'm developing parts of this law. The safety of ski resorts is very important, both skiers themselves and other participants who spend time there. Of course, in order to integrate our tourist offer into the international tourist market, we must have a normatively regulated, there is no improvisation, that we know how it works and how tourist life is happening on the ski slope. Of course we should say that ski resorts are exclusively in rural areas. The entire government, all ministries have segments of their work dedicated exclusively to the development of rural areas. This is a chance to develop rural areas, and there are no investments or domestic ones, and especially foreign ones, if there is no legal regulation of this matter, if investors do not know what awaits them and under what conditions they will invest their money, or how they will implement it. It should be said and underline that these provisions of the law are absolutely comparable to European regulation and that we have obtained the consent of the World Ski Organisation with the provisions, and in particular with the terminology that is there to be easily recognised by the foreign consumers that are to come. Part, like any law that regulates basic provisions, where there's a difference between a ski center and a ski resort. It's a big difference and a lot of people don't know the difference between those two ideas. It has been regulated that the ski centre is required to ensure that the ski resort is used as a public good, on equal terms for all users. No discrimination, everyone must have the right to use the ski resort, of course, under the prescribed conditions. The basic concepts of what is a ski track, what is a polygon, what is a wire, what is a ski lift. Those who are skiers who participate in doing that sport know what it is, but for a lot of people these are some terms that need to be explained and legally defined. It's arranged to mark the entire ski resort, equally, according to international standards. There can be no difference between ski resorts and ski resorts, these markings have to be recognizable on every ski resort. It is said that the classification of the trail must be carried out. It's not a naive thing at all. It happens. In Kopalnik, our most developed ski resort has been done a long time ago, but we have ski resorts where it's not there. It happens that you go down a mild path, and all of a sudden you come across some Nordic conditions. Of course there are injuries and accidents inevitable. There must be an advance to know which path, what quality, and how each one according to his abilities, and how the government works. Then, the obligations are regulated, primarily the maintenance of the ski resort, both in the season and out of season. You can't lock yourself up outside the season and make sure no one cares about the ski resort anymore. It's something that has to be continuous. There are unsecured paths. Unfortunately, we always have those who are interested in driving along these unsecured paths. The obligation is prescribed here that the ski resort must have a notification service, i.e. information service, and that, simply, this ski centre must be notified every day of the weather, the rainfall, the dangers of the slopes and all that skiing can make very serious, or dangerous sport. Of course, security measures are at an envious level and I'll talk about it a little later. The use and operation of the ski resort are also prescribed. Under what conditions can the ski centre perform its work? There is no improvisation, it must be known, it is part of the business branch, as other economic operators in the industries have conditions under which they operate, and ski centres must be prescribed under what conditions they can operate. Security is, as I said, particularly expressed, or prescribed security measures can be divided into measures that are binding on ski centres and part two, as the previous colleague said, on skiers' obligations for safety. So it's for the ski centres that there's a rescue service and there's a first aid service. There's no more commercial skis unless there's a rescue service and there's no first aid service. It has to be provided, it's a cost, but it's a cost without whom this sport can't function, which can be very dangerous. It's also prescribed for the director's office. In this directorial service, we have also heard from previous presentations, and experience has shown that it is a very charming service. So far, we've had a regular service that the clerk was uninterested, sitting there on the side, drinking drinks, courting girls, not looking at what's going on on the track at all. Or we had a reverse case. We had too many zealous monks, so they acted as if it were their grandfather's legacy, lined up all the skiers. So you can't just leave it on the free interpretation of the firm that organizes it. It must be clear how these monks are dressed, how they behave, what their rights are, what their obligations are. Vehicles, also one of the painful issues, in ski resorts. Less is thought of means of transport, transport and everything else that circulates in the ski resort and from the ski resort. The most space is given for means of transport on motor sleds. Who was on the Kopalnik could see that this ski resort had turned into a jungle of arrogant boys and girls who were winding up with those snowflakes, without any order, no path, no day, no night, and all that beauty of the Bather is overshadowed just by being constantly in a cramp, in fear, especially the elderly, the little children, whether someone would run into them, whether they would crush them, harass them with noise, gases, etc. So here it's clear and tax-listed and said that motor sleds have to be used. It is particularly stated that this must go in special paths. There's no wandering around the ski resort where the walkers are or where the skiers are, and they have to drive authorized faces. No longer can anyone pay 100 euros, take a sled and harass their surroundings. The second part, relating to safety, is the obligations of skiers and other skiers. A colleague, a previous speaker, spoke quite with a lack of respect for this tax-listing of certain obligations. I have a completely different opinion and I think it's extremely well-listed and written, no matter what a little looks like and ridiculous and unnecessary. I say, who had experience, he knows and recognizes the things that are regulated here. For example, Article 55 says, "The skier is obliged to behave on the track so that he does not endanger or harm others." Now someone can say it's normal, that's understood. It applies to normal people, but unfortunately, we also have those who don't belong in that category, and for them it has to be prescribed that they can't behave like that, and if they behave like that, then they'll also be subject to certain sanctions. So far, no one has been able to handle the sanctions. For example, it is prescribed that it must drive carefully, that the speed and mode of driving adapts to its knowledge and conditions, i.e. paths and weather conditions, the number of skiers on the track, etc. Someone will say again that it's normal, that it's understood. Well, no, who's experienced this one might know that you have a small path, a mild one, where children or beginners are and you come across some savage who made a descent from three kilometers long, chasing 50 or 100 kilometers an hour. So he can't do that on that track where the other participants are. Also, on the other hand, we have those that can cause accidents. "In case he climbs, or returns to the track, or when on foot comes down to move, he uses only the edge of the track." Once again, someone will say that it is unnecessary to write here, but we have experience walking on foot in the middle of the track. If skiers don't notice them in time, there are certain injuries because someone allows himself to walk, say, in the middle of the track. Now it's prescribed he can't go, then the sergeant will warn him, or take his ID, inspector, etc. and that we're not talking about technique how. What can't a skier do? He says, "He mustn't ski on a ski slope, or a trail marked as closed." We just always have to find some smart guy who's gonna ski on a closed track, just to see if he can or can, and when he gets to the injury, then someone else has to answer. Well, it's forbidden to ski on a closed path, and if he skis then he skis on his own responsibility, and that's why he'll suffer the consequences. For example, it is said that, in any way, it is forbidden to compromise the pillars of the wire, the machine for preparing the track and other equipment on the track. Someone's gonna say it again. It's unnecessary. But who saw him hang on to the wire, grab an anchor or a plater, not pay for a ticket, so he's pounding on the poles, destroying the property, he's gonna say that this is a very smart and very necessary provision to stand right in the law to prevent it anyway. Another characteristic feature, he says, "It's forbidden to ski on the track, if it's under the fact of alcohol, drugs or any other psychoactive drug, or means that have a negative impact on its abilities." Absolutely required specifics. Driving on skis is kind of traffic, let's just say, it's a little banal. You've seen skiers, boys and girls with unsettled eyes, yawning, blurry eyes, running with skis. Well, you can see from the right perspective that they're either under alcohol or I don't know what other means. So he can't participate, he can't endanger others. If so, they will be established and punished for it and will be expelled. It will be established, it will be established. If we don't, we'll never find out. So these are all the provisions that are very important and it's very good that they are so taxing and that they stand in the bill. There is a section on ski teaching, also a very important segment where it is clearly defined what are the conditions for performing skiing lessons. So it has to be a registered company, it has to have a business room where these people who are away are going to come, to get together, it has to have a consumer insurance contract, so if something happens, it has to be secured by that user, it has to be protected in some way, and it has to be trained by authorized persons, or instructors. So I can register the company, but training can only be done by an instructor who has a license, who is again prescribed how it is obtained. What is very important is that in all schools there must be equal conditions. It was at that seminar, and before that, attempts to limit the number of teaching schools. This is not in line, I feel free to say, with the market economy, everyone must have the right, of course, under the conditions that are prescribed, and the quality will emerge and thus the number will certainly be limited. The organisation of sports events is regulated, too, very important. It must be known how to organize, what are the conditions, so that there won't be that trinket and all sorts of circuses and parades. Of course, as in any law, surveillance is determined and it is done by tourist inspection primarily, and the supervision of sports events is carried out by the Ministry of Sports. And, of course, the law would not be a law if there were no criminal provisions, which are also very tax-determined – for every provision of obligations prescribed and that gives one seriousness to this law, so that the colleague will be convinced that this will apply. What is particularly important to highlight and what has given particular seriousness to this law are amendments to the Government which have been delivered and which are an integral part of this bill. They give special quality and meaning to this law, which is the amendment, that, the public ski resort is arranged as a public area for skiing and all other activities of general interest. So, for the first time now, we define the ski resort as a public area of general interest. What does that mean exactly? This means, in particular, that this has been declared to be more important to the general interest of the development of a ski resort of personal interest, of private interest. There's an example, we heard from the Ministry's representatives, that, let's say, there are two plots of land on the Kopalnik that have been boned in the throat for years to develop some paths that have been arranged and cannot be put on the market, because the owners have capitulated, they won't give up, they won't sell, they won't do anything. They just don't let that trail run, they want it to work. Well, it can't be above the interest of the local community, above the interest of the region, above the interest of the state, because the development of the ski resort is a state interest that we must promote. Therefore, when we have defined as good of general interest, then it is known how it works, you know what expropriations are and what all the measures that the state can take to develop it. Then, the amendment was regulated to form, a unique, public-owned ski resort company as a national good. So it must be said clearly that ski resorts are national goods. Of course, there is thought primarily and exclusively of commercial ski resorts, and commercial ski resorts are over 1,500 meters above sea level and we unfortunately don't have many. It was said in the opening exhibition, it is primarily the Kopalnik, then Stara Planina, Bezna Kobila, Kosovo and Metohija Bezovica and some of our mountains that satisfy these conditions. It's underlined here, and it should be said again that ski resorts don't have to be public. So we have ski resorts that, say, have the Ministry of the Interior, have some schools that make their own ski resorts and use them, but all the provisions of the law have to apply to both public ski resorts and to all these others in order to carry out that security and that uniformity in all the ski resorts. It should be said that this matter would be fully regulated and that in order to clearly define the responsibility of each ministry, to round up this matter, it must be said that there is no law on cableways and elevators. We hope that the ministry responsible for this will come out very quickly with a bill of law that we will adopt, so that this matter will be uniformly regulated and that we will enter the order of the regulated countries. So, I'm just finishing up with one question, there's been so few dirty questions, so how come now the ski resort law is coming in the summer? Well, right now it's time for the ski resort law to be passed, right now it's the right time for our ski centres, so our ski resorts have time to customize, to transform, to realize that without normative regulation can no longer work. So we are convinced that this law will help and that at the next season, or winter, in the fall, we will come out with one serious tourist offer for the welfare of the state and of course of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26447	Replica, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26448	I want to clarify the article 55 Mr. Kuryatski mentioned. In my presentation, I said that some of the provisions of this article are not good, they shouldn't be standing in this place, but I didn't say that the whole member was wrong. I didn't mention one and two, but I mentioned three, four, five, six, seven, and eight. Read them and you will see that they have no meaning or that they do not need to stand in the law, that it is more logical to be in a rulebook or in a guidebook for instructors, or ski teachers. In Article 55, point 3 says what you can't ski, so at point 4 of Mr Kurjački's reference is that you can't ski on a track if it's under the fact of alcohol, drugs or some psychoactive drug, or assets that have a negative impact on its abilities." He can't do that. But in article 54, it is said that the director, or director, is obliged to deny one or more driving skiers, or a person who, by his conduct, endangers or threatens the safety of the use of ski resorts, or cableways (drinking faces and faces under the influence of drugs). This way (Art. 55.) It says he can't ski at all, and here he (Art. 54.) will deny him one or more rides. It doesn't make sense. A skier like that can't ski at all. If he's drunk, if he's under the influence of drugs, he can't ski, there's no penalty for one or more driving. This is a two-member conflict in law, and this needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26449	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in God's command and in the law, it says no one can kill, so, unfortunately, people kill. It's simple, and this law says he can't drive high or drunk, but no one's in the green Bob and a glass to see if anyone's drunk when he leaves the track, but if a sergeant has to do what the law says. I have the impression that a number of fellow lawmen are experiencing as something that is not necessary, which is not necessary at this time or not necessary in this way. I remind you it's not supposed to be larma, so it'd be normal, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26451	I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker, and so do you, Mr. Baralic, to treat the MPs with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26452	Mr. Vice-President, the notion of larma in Serbian means noise, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the chairman to ensure that the speaker is uninterrupted and that I did not hurt anyone. I apologize to my colleague, who eventually didn't understand what I was talking about. It has already been said that several important localities in Serbia are potential ski centres that are today ski centres, and some will hopefully become just tourist potential and hopefully, as much as tomorrow, they should become a tourist offer. In that sense, it is very important that we heard today that Goli, who is a pearl in Serbia, Stara Planina, is also named Tara. I would like to say in this place that the socialist Yugoslavia and Serbia, where some were distasteful, built two powerful ski centres on Brezovica and Kopalnik, and that at the time of their creation they were among the most modern and representative objects of this kind in Europe and that, as far as it seems, it would be our turn today to do something to make Golia and Stara Planina more than 350m euros on an annual basis. Not entering the calculation methodology as off-board consumption counts and whether it's all true, but, let's say, that's so much, the countries in the environment have a multiple higher tourist inflow and Serbia has strong potential in this area, primarily in the area of these winter sports. As the law says above 1,500 meters, it is possible to build a commercial ski resort, due to the number of days when snow cover and anything else can mean compared to the use of ski centres. The law requires, among other things, that potential instructors get a clear opportunity as well as in what way and whether they want to invest in this area. I remind you, there's a colleague here from around Zaječac and Književci, the Old Mountain is practically a desert and uninhabited area today. There are entire villages where no man lives, and by what it is, its beauty and its potential almost has no competition in Europe. So this also applies to Goli, this also applies to other localities in Serbia. Today, we can analyze how much tourist traffic there is on the Kopalnik as much as we are not satisfied, as we can analyze what the end would look like today and who would eventually populate it if the ski centre hadn't been born there. It is very important that we know that there is a clear intention to build in Serbia at certain locations those objects that can help multiplely and to employ the population, and to stop evicting the population and to stop the local population, which is there today, has someone to sell what it produces and to bring back to those locations the people who have moved from there. To understand that only in the area of Brzeća and Kopalnik is doing practically in different kinds of people, which would probably not be there today if there were no ski centre of Kopalnik, from tourist tax to various other things, to direct inflow, to traffic ski equipment, to traffic and all that is important. This is what I'm talking about, I'm sorry, it's not strictly about the law, but I am talking about this because the law is important to encourage potential investors to start building on clear rules and in line with Serbia's tourism development strategy, also as a strategic document, in those places in Serbia that we are particularly interested in. He spoke to an esteemed colleague, Mr Arsen Kurjački, about these two amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it does not make sense, someone seems that the government is submitting an amendment to its bill, but it is never disputed to see that something can be better. He cited these examples, and I'm going to say once again, it's important that the ski resort be public and declare the general interest, because, you know how, if someone asked the peasants around Kladov if they wanted to move out and build the HE "Gerdap", they'd surely say they never wanted to. It's just not possible. The state should deprive them, as the people would say with dry gold, but they should ensure that the general interest works, that those who were there are satisfied too, so they must give up their property under fair conditions, in favour of the state and those who will use it in the future. That's why it's important, he said, Mr. Kurjački here is examples, it's about some pitches on the fast side, where, practically, some people don't want to give up, or rent their parcels, although there already are cableways and everything that is necessary to function normally on paths and on that side, etc. The next question that was not mentioned here, which would be important, I hope that the new ski centres will not have the error of the existing ones. It is possible that Mrs. Branka Bosnjak will talk about this, I'm not sure, I apologize, it is the wrong tourist settlements to build at the heights where only skiing takes place. Modern ski centres should function in such a way that the entire accommodation is at the foot of it, and that this infrastructure that provides the process itself is located where it is most convenient as it is now, but, unfortunately, if we take the Kopalnik example, there are major problems because the accommodation facilities, which these complexes are right up to the track itself. It can be attractive for potential guests because everything is close to them, but not getting into it. It's a question of some other laws and some other relationships. However, I want to say this in the adoption of this law, because that mistake cannot be corrected if it is done once. It is very difficult to maintain, and we will take as an example the maintenance of roads from Josianica to Kopalnik, from Brzeć to Kopalnik, if the settlement were not worse, the maintenance of the road would not exist as a problem. The settlement would be down there, where Josianica is, and people would go to the ski lifts where the trails and where they were doing what they wanted to participate in the competition or whatever, in recreation, etc. It is very important that now that we know exactly what we want and what we want and that we help Serbia get new ski centres and that people are employed there, and the law, among other things, predicts that these paths are used under certain circumstances during the summer season. In Europe, there's grass skiing, there's a whole series of other ways to hire ski centres when there's no snow. Maybe someone's gonna pretend this doesn't matter. It is important, because when you have such infrastructure and you have only 60 or 70 days of snow on these mountains, then keeping the entire complex expensive and important burdens business. It is therefore important in all possible ways to employ these capacities, as many days as possible during the year. So, with respect, in part respect for what Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic was talking about, he helped and the amendments to the SRS helped to make things more specific here. I see some have been accepted. I think the law should be passed. The SRS parliamentary group will vote for this law. Once again, Mr. Minister, please, I don't know who's in charge of us getting a very fast wire bill in the process and solving other problems that are related to some things that aren't most often in some sports relations. Once again, several thousand elevators are used in Serbia and there is no regulation on which they operate and on which they are maintained. The cable bill should also solve the use and design and maintenance of cableways that are in ski centres, as well as elevators in Serbia daily, to say conditionally, drive several hundred thousand citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26453	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS and the G17 plus. I give my word to the MP Branislav Stevanović, and let Branka Bosnjak be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about the natural potentials of Serbia, Mr. Minister said a lot of things and Mr. Baralic should not say anything special about it, but should point out that we are certainly still the natural potentials that our country owns, that is that we are already behind the Alpine countries, and this should be taken seriously and exploit all the potentials offered above all by Kopalnik, as our best tourist center for winter sports and, of course, the others that have already been spoken of, and so are Bezovica, Zlatibor, Divcibara etc. Especially should the potentials of the Old Mountain be highlighted. On the Tourism Committee, I have been present several times, and from the materials that we have received MPs should, indeed, point out that, indeed, it offers extremely great potentials both in line with the development of Serbia's tourism and when we consider the undeveloped end of southern Serbia, that a large number of our people will get jobs, meaning, and one of the important reasons why I will support this law, of course, is this. That's what Mr. Baralic said a lot, and I wouldn't particularly like to take this issue. It is important to say why it is important to pass this law, which is also because of the investments offered by foreign investors, which will enable more investment by investors after the adoption of this law, of course, people who have money, from abroad, to invest in the development of our tourism and training of ski centres. I'm not sure the Republic of Serbia has to, i.e. The government to provide these initial conditions, to make them ski resorts so that they can eventually do a natural exploitation, not to mention using already finished funds, which would be provided by the Republic of Serbia. I'd rather go to that combination if already, like that, to say "naked mountain," the old mountain, were going into negotiations to start with investments at the very beginning. Also, the aim of this law is to regulate the area itself and the international rules governing ski sports. Of course, we didn't do this and therefore, I don't see why it would take several years to implement such an important law, but one harmonisation according to the law that exists primarily in the Alpine countries, Switzerland and Austria, based on these existing laws on the regulation of the ski resort, does not need to be particularly governed by some laws, means just to comply with these existing rules that we have in other countries where this area is already governed. In this law there was also a lot of controversy from previous speakers by some concepts, then the categorization of ski paths. Of course, it should have been pointed out, because I am the way of determining the categorisation towards the risk and the severity of the track, that there are international rules and that there is a categorization of white to black paths, the most extreme ones, and therefore the same with international rules, and the criteria need to be addressed. Also, signalling, security, transportation and maintenance of ski paths is quite already said, and there should not be any special controversy, because these are some of the less important things than those that are most important, and this is the investment and establishment of new ski centres, the development of tourism in our country. Of course, there is one of the more important things, it is that our youth is involved in more active activities in these winter sports, primarily skiing. It is known that, ever since we separated from Slovenia, we no longer have some European or world champions in that sport, so we should use a form of free school activation, youth, students to use. Since one of our average citizens can't use opportunities on the Kopalnik, it should be free of charge for poor children, school directors or whoever is doing it, excursions so that through this kind of free training, some selection can be conducted in advance, and possibly perhaps the establishment of some clubs that might present us in the world. Also, as time goes on and on, I would like to say that in this law it is important to stress that there is a greater benefit, i.e. that there is local self-government than any of these ski centres that will be in Serbia in the future, as Mr Baralic said, in the interest of the greater number of employment of people in these poor environments. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I will vote yes, because it is very necessary for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26455	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the Prophet Radet be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26456	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the law on public ski resorts is very important, especially because it regulates an area that is a prerequisite for investment and investment in mountain tourism. You know that our mountains are an extremely large tourist and sports potential, of course, because of the development of sport has a healthier youth, healthier nation, of course, the development of tourism implies and income for the country. On the other hand, it should be recalled that this government has predicted to invest considerable funds in several mountains in the following year, mostly in the Stara Planina, Divcibara, Golia, Zlatibor, Zlatar, and, of course, to invest in one of the mountains and it is necessary to do according to the relevant systems and laws. That is why this law is significant and welcome, it is, the fact stands, therefore, standing and waiting in the Assembly of its order, because some other laws were a priority, but the fact that we are talking about it today is actually the belief of this government to plan, indeed, those resources that it has allocated to the development of mountains and mountain tourism and to activate it as soon as possible. The fact is also that every law begins by defining certain concepts, and here there are some abuses, misunderstandings, and also various dilemmas that have come from many journalists who, when reading this law, have called many MPs, probably some of you, including me, but this law has begun by defining the concepts of all the world laws that regulate a similar area. I think that this law is most similar to the legislation of some Alpine countries and some other European countries, and the Ministry has also assured us that there are some significant similarities with US law, and of course we are starting to define concepts. I don't think there could be any investment, mostly foreign investors if our legislation didn't comply with their laws. So far, we have had significant obstacles to investing and having an interest, recognising our country's potential in this area, but while you have no regulated law, of course the funds are not safe. On the other hand, through some initial members of this law, and through subsequent amendments, the government has defined and the public interest of ski resorts, ski centres, too, in order to ensure the possibility of construction and to effectively implement spatial plans and the realisation of design documentation at certain ski resorts, as well as to ensure rules on the management of ski centres. In the part of the law relating to the arrangement, security and use and safety of trails and ski resorts, rules are defined by which these ski resorts, ski centres are built, the rules by which they are maintained and used, and we all, unfortunately, witness the many accidents that once had a tragic end, so I think that the segment of the law relating to the safety of ski centre users is also the people who work there and the greatest value by me of this law. He also defined in one of his segments how ski trails should look, defined their dimensions, their slopes, their width, the distance from the skyscrapers. They should also look as to the safety of the route itself, how many dangerous holes or some rocky areas should be devoid of. It is also not allowed on ski trails, along ski trails and on trails to set any commercials, it is allowed, and only to set marking means, i.e. signalling means. Also, the law clearly states in which conditions the ski course can be used, of course there is a prescribed minimum amount of snow and that each other, i.e. that every other condition for each skier is insecure. Nightskiing involves a prescribed lit track, again all in accordance with the rules of safe skiing. Competition paths have their own special rules, they are built, they are maintained by international standards, but I must say that our standards are also good, they must be done according to both international and national standards. Thus built paths are then classified and other than classification, properly marked. I think that the vast majority of citizens know, and not just skiers, that the paths according to their weight are classified in green, as the simplest for beginner skiers, and then blue, red and black, and of course it is necessary to mark each track very clearly, because of course that you are skiing only according to your ability to use it. All these markings should be above the height of the snow. The section of the law relating to the maintenance of ski centres speaks of how ski centres should control and maintain paths, but in fact all the accompanying contents of the centres during the season. I remind you that the season can not only be winter, of course winter centres are priority, but it's good if these centers are used both in the summer season and between those two seasons. The ski center is worried about how the cable companies are maintained. Wires are means of transport without which ski centres could not function. It is therefore very important to define the maintenance of ski lifts and cableways through the rules of ski centres. The means of transport on ski resorts may be some other, not only ski lifts and cableways, but motor vehicles and means of transport on the tracks can only be official. Of course, those official vehicles must also move according to certain rules. It's clearly in the law. There is a defined not only time, but also the way these funds are used. When I say time, it means a time when those means can go out on the track. Of course, it's not the time when skiers are on the track. Also, the tracks themselves are allowed to use motor sleds, but the motor sleds are only used on paths that are clearly defined to be allowed for them, and must be very clearly marked. Also, the law states at which speed these sleighes can move, but these are all details that need not be bothered by you or by the viewers. Ski centres can only be organised under appropriate weather conditions, but it is therefore mandatory for ski centres to write and ban the operation of cableways and ski lifts in weather conditions. Also, the section of the law on the ski centre system has been defined and all services must be provided by one ski center. These are, in addition to the maintenance service, also the rescue service, the first - aid service, a service that will provide timely transport, transportation, the god of the injured person, as well as a service that monitors weather opportunities. Ski centres bring plans to work in seasons, also define rules for the use of all both facilities and parts of the transportation of ski centres. Ski centres must have an appropriate number of track maintenance machines, to inform skiers on the track, i.e. they must have a prescribed number of sounding devices and must be properly marked by signalling. The law, as I said at the beginning, is a priority concern for the safety of all ski users. I think that, from my point of view, is the greatest value of this law. He's mostly contained in it. I think the largest number of members of this law apply to it, and it seems to me that it should be particularly commendable, and therefore support this law. Also, what every law, including this law, aims at, is the development of a particular segment of society. In this law, we recognize the future of some new modern Serbian ski resorts, we recognize some new modern Serbian ski centres, but not just ski centres, they are winter, but sometimes summer mountain centres. Of course, the development of these centres involves new investment of the first state. The moment the state is encouraged to invest in such centres, of course, domestic and foreign investors will come. Investment in these centres follows everything else: new jobs, tourism revenues, healthy youth, sports. When we provide internationally recognised and built ski centres, we will also be a country that will be able to qualify for the organisation of some international competitions. For all of this, on behalf of the G17 Plus Party, I call on all MPs to support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26457	The word has a folk MP, Vjerica Radeta, and let Milica Vojić-Marković be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26458	If we were to happen to be convinced that the law on public ski resorts is the most important thing in the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, then we would give recognition to both the Minister and the Ministry and we would say that Bojan Dimitrijevic is a good minister, but given that he is not, I must say that he is not a good minister, nor is this government good for the citizens of Serbia. The proposal for this law is another insinuation of Serbian citizens and has nothing to do with reality or reality. Of course, every segment of society needs to be legally regulated and there should be a law on each segment, it is not controversial, but in a normal state, priorities are being made. If we were a normal state, then the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services would, above all, take care of what is important to most Serbian citizens. It would be much nicer if we here today with Minister Dimitrijevic discussed the protection of the Serbian market, the protection of national products, but the minister thinks the law on public ski resorts is the most important thing in the world. I would like the minister to say whether he has a lot of statistics, especially when they make a consumer basket, which I don't know only who can fill in Serbia today, the way they predicted it, as well as the intended consumer basket is about 40% of the needs of each four-member household, so I would like the minister to tell us the statistics of how many Serbian citizens today are able to use an annual holiday, summer or winter basket, and especially summer and winter, how much does it involve skiing, in fact, who can afford it in Serbia today? I hope we get that information from the minister. Another in a series of questions for the minister, there will be more – what about skiing until the day of today, or the day of adoption of this law? Does this mean that so far they've been wild ski resorts and have been involved in the illegal skiing of skiers? I'm surprised the minister didn't provide in the final or criminal provisions for punishing all the people who did skiing in some previous years, because he didn't pass the law. So before this I would ask the minister if he knows how many citizens of Serbia can live normally today, I mean the material status of Serbian citizens? If he doesn't know the minister, I'll tell him there's a supermarket in my neighborhood, so, outside that supermarket, there's about a dozen containers. Every day is the same picture. The supermarket comes out of people with half-empty bags, sometimes with a loaded bag, and on those six containers there's maltene order, and unfortunately, people looking at containers, and at first glance they're also decent and normal, they're clean and they have a wardrobe that's about 10-15-20 years ago, meaning from the time they could buy it, but they're in a situation today that they have nothing to eat. Instead of dealing with such matters, Minister Dimitrijevic and his ministry, we are talking about public ski resorts today. I really think that the citizens who are watching this Parliament's work today are indignant when, in addition to all the trouble Serbia has, they see that we here today are wasting our time talking about public ski resorts and it's completely unnecessary, in the way it's supposed to be here. I'll talk about those details later, but now I'm going to say what's the point. On page 26 of the bill – the reasons for the adoption of the law, among other things, reads: "The normalisation of this area is also important for the integration of the tourist offer of mountainous areas in the international market". What does this mean? It means that what is contained in Article 3 of this bill, and these are individual terms used in this law, and this is the newspaper that you have taken over from some EU countries, and this is actually the biggest stupidity, completely unnecessary norming and entering into the law, and it has never been in Serbia's legal system. There is no need for these things to be normalized, that you, listening to the EU and cheating their stupidity, are stupiding and distracting the MPs and insulting the intelligence of both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, when, for example, you say in the law, imagine that you are skiing a face that skis, etc. No, he's a legal person. Ski company, amazing. Or, you say, ski-lift is a means that goes uphill in the snow. Well, I mean, really, are we here, who here is not normal? Are you suggesting this to us or are we listening to you? The law, the minister said, was prepared for a long time, with consultations from various experts, and then it was concluded in Kopalnik that this is an excellent law. That was concluded a year and a half ago. You know when it's done? I told you at the time what was going on on the bathroom when Velija Ilic was, when they opened a cable car that got right to Labus's weekend house. Well, then it was celebrated along the way, then, brought this bill. However, Labus was then vice president of the government. One more thing, when it comes to this need of yours to please the EU. We really think it's high time you stopped harassing the citizens of Serbia in this way and quit the dead end, to realize that you, just laugh, dear fellow sir, but believe that this is true and you'll understand very quickly, I know that you don't understand now, but that's your problem again, so this EU is humiliating us with these laws and all the things that it treats the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Today they tell you – we will continue negotiations if you arrest Mladic. Tomorrow they will tell you – we will continue negotiations if you arrest Karadzic. The day after tomorrow, they will tell you – we will continue negotiations if you arrest those 20 fighters from Republika Srpska, whose applications await the pigeon Vuckovic, a special prosecutor for war crimes. Well, then after that there'll be 200 more of those people, then 2,000, then 20,000, so who knows where they're gonna stop. Then they will tell you – yes, the EU can when Kosovo becomes independent. Then they'll ask you to do the same thing for the Rusk area, so who knows where they'll stop. And you listen to it all, you accept it, and you don't want to hear what the whole of Serbia, the whole of Europe, what Angela Merkel told you -- there's no EU enlargement! You are distracting Serbian citizens for free, you are offering us the ski resort law and you are preparing a seal protection law in Serbia. And we'll discuss it these days. You're truly an amazing government, and you're an incredible congregational majority. What humiliations you allow this EU and those of your Western friends! As far as this law is concerned, the minister is here, and otherwise all the ministers of this government do, they read to us what someone wrote in the light of the law and then the minister here surprises us with two things – he says: this is in line with the Tourism Development Strategy. Who knows about this Tourism Development Strategy? That's what Bojan Dimitrijevic brought with his wife?- I'm sorry. Unbelievable! Well, I guess this assembly should know if such a strategy has been adopted. Then the minister tells us -- it does not stand in this law, but I don't know if you won, and we didn't get it, the government submitted one amendment to Article 5, where it envisioned a public venture for public ski resorts. I'm surprised that then the government didn't think of it, when it had already submitted the amendments, to submit an amendment to Article 81, so it doesn't appear that the ski centre is obliged to ensure that employees, or engaged persons in the affairs of the head of the track and directors meet the conditions laid down by this law, by 31 December 2005 at the latest. Didn't someone from the Ministry read before you came here today to sit here and watch each other, since the minister doesn't need to listen to us. Since it didn't occur to you to tell him to change this date, that he couldn't norm with the date of 31.12.2005 today, 11 May 2006. When it comes to the public ski business, one more hoax. Of course we know what all your newly formed public enterprises mean. This is now a newspaper, dear colleagues, not an agency, not a commission, now it's public enterprises, but, of course, with the same goal, with the same intentions, and then the government lies to us and says, "For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources." So how's he gonna build a public company? What building is it going to be, what people are going to work there, what equipment are they going to work with, who's going to pay for it, and how much is it?- I'm sorry. You can't tell us this law doesn't require funds, and you're planning a public firm with who knows how many employees! Another irresponsibility and irresponsibility of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and, specifically, now, Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic. In an analysis of the effects of this law, you say, "Application of the bill's solution will not cause additional costs for citizens, users of public skiing services, it can even be said that it will positively affect the quality of services." I don't know how you understand this sentence, but does this mean that the minister swears there will be no more gatherings in that area, unless he's going to cost extra to the public. It can't be interpreted differently. He says, "It can even be said that it will have a positive impact on the quality of services." This part of the sentence with this first part, really, has nothing to do with it. Furthermore, this is another big lie, you say, "Without proper arrangements, maintenance and equipment of public ski resorts, it is not possible to develop winter tourism and winter sport in the Republic, nor are there possible foreign investments in this area without the appropriate legal environment." So all the lawyers who hear this now know that I have read one great lie by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of connections does this law have to do with foreign investment in this area? There's nothing. You know when you'll be able to count on foreign investments? When you arrange property-legal relations and when you pass the law on planning and building as we suggest. Because, you know, he even said when he was here he said that this law we were about to amend wasn't good enough and that he was preparing to pass a new law. So, if the law creates conditions for investment and of course, the priority over priorities is to abolish the commission and corruption at the land allocation for tourist facilities. Those conditions should be met, gentlemen dear, and then you should count on having foreign investments, and without this law, you would have them in that case. "The Public Skiing Law," the government said, "would have a positive impact on the emergence of new operators on the market and on market competition". So this is also about what I said earlier, because I cannot interpret at all, and I would like the minister or someone else to explain to me, how this law on public ski resorts can positively affect the emergence of new operators on the market and market competition. So, gentlemen dear, we are neither crazy nor stupid, but smart, educated and you cannot fool us and you cannot lie to us and we are therefore telling the citizens of Serbia that this is what the Serbian government is trying to lead its citizens astray. I won't speak to this law, we'll speak in detail. I think Zlatan Jovanovic explained in detail all members of the law and from the point of view of skiers. I won't, I'll just have a few members comment on it as a lawyer. In Article 54, it is said: "The regular in the performance of his duties is authorised to", among other things, in point 6) says: "Deprive one or more driving by a cableman who, by his conduct, threatens or threatens the safety of the use of ski resorts, or cableways (drinking faces, persons under the influence of drugs, persons who do not comply with established rules on skiing, persons carrying illicit items, etc.)". In Article 55, point 4(3), the following is added: ‘The skier shall not ski on the track if it is under the fact of alcohol, drugs or any psychoactive drug, or means that have a negative impact on its abilities’. Question for lawyers: which inspector can and on what basis, does he have the authority to first legitize a skier or someone who finds himself in a ski resort, and in particular how can he remove him from the ski resort? What can the Minister do if he tells me – you have to stay away, because something seems to me that you're in good shape. And I say, "Here, I am, but I'm not going anywhere." What can the inspector do? He can't do anything. Where did you get the idea to predict something like this in the law, that you're in the rule book, and even help God, with some additional corrections, which I'm about to tell you now, but in law, you're predicting something that there's no way it can be applied. First of all, who is this inspector who is allowed to tell a citizen – you seem drunk or drugged to me, which inspector is free to tell a citizen who came to ski or walk there? Who's the one who can tell? And if that citizen says so, I won't get away! Is the inspector going to beat him, is that the authority you've provided for him? Well, he can't, Minister, this job can only be done by the police. A fellow MP, and I was just explaining to you in the bench, this job can only be done by the police. The inspector can only tell himself – her, that one seems drunk! So that he may turn to the police to say, "This is something that I doubt, come to me." Well, then the police have the right to do so, and there's no proper inspector. And you put it in the law and you standardize it anyway. This article in 55 is about God saving everything – a skier is bound to, a skier must not. The only thing you left out, Minister, and we forgot to write the amendment – the skier is obliged to have skis. How you leave it out, it's a hell of a law for you. Furthermore, everything contained in article 55 cannot possibly be found in the law, not at all. Here, I ask the lawyers who read this to deny me who disagrees with me, but, of course, argued. These can be instructions. You can't say in the law that a skier can't cross other skiers, either left or right, always at such a distance and so on, when he wants to get involved in a run or when after stopping on the track, he has to make sure he's looking back, below and so on. These are instructions for instructors and, of course, one who learns from the instructors how to ski will know that and can't possibly stand in law. Imagine a law like this that regulates traffic that states in the law that a driving instructor should behave when someone learns to drive a car. This is really irresponsible and irresponsible, and I can't believe that people who have worked for years at the Ministry have allowed such a bill to be found in front of MPs. But it's only a 65-year-old. Where you got from, Minister, this right, I really ask you to explain it to us, says: "The ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts for all skiing schools that have their headquarters in a local self-government unit whose territory is a ski resort." Well, this is impossible, this is really impossible. How can you, Minister, determine where a company's headquarters will be, here, can be its headquarters in Belgrade, and that there is a ski resort in Kopalnik and you will tell him that he can't do it because there's a registered company in Belgrade. So give us some seriousness, this is still a bill of law, for God's sake. Article 70, and Article 71, I'm surprised that the lawyers missed, refer to the solutions to the complaints and in article 70, says, "According to the inspector's decision, a complaint can be made to the Minister responsible for tourism affairs, within eight days of the day of the adoption of the solution," and that's fine. But the appeal of the decision of the fourth member does not delay its execution, and that is the end. There is no deadline for the minister to decide on whether he will now wait for his season to pass and for the minister to find time to come up with solutions. The general administrative procedure law, dear fellow, if applied, I hear what you're throwing at, then this should not have been normed at all, but to do both and the other and the third according to the Law of Administrative Procedure. This is an executive procedure, not an administrative procedure, so you're wrong. The same thing applies to Article 71, where it also does not say that, against the solution of a sports inspector etc. The appeal can be made within three days, he does not say within what time the minister has to appeal to plead. And criminal provisions are, like this, a special story characteristic of all the ministries, for all the ministers of this government, the bigger the fines of this more money in the budget, and for which and how it is punished it is completely irrelevant. I don't want to go into these fines in detail, of course, that's your business. You charge citizens everything but the air anyway, so why don't you charge these fines. But I just have to tell you two things in principle: in article 72, you've provided a fine of 50 to 350,000 dinars, among other things, for a facial violation if you don't arrange and equip the ski resort so it's safe for users, and in Article 73. – a fine of 20-200,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if he does not especially mark and provide dangerous places on the ski track. So, an almost identical violation, though, regulated by two members in this bill. In the first case, we have a fine of 50 to 350,000, and in the second of 20 to 200,000. First of all, these range of penalties, this is a principled view of the SRS, they are inadmissible – that we leave at the will of an inspector to assess whether someone will punish with 50 or 350,000 for us, because this range of penalties always leads to the possibility of abuse and corruption, and of course, we do not believe that your position, Minister, is incentivizing corruption and abuse. I'm sure you're thinking the opposite, but then you have to show it in the suggestions you're making. Or, in Article 72, we have a fine of 50 to 350 000 for a violation of the person if the ski resort does not provide the director's service, rescue and emergency medical services, and in Article 74, from 10 to 100 000, so three and a half times less punishment will be imposed if the person does not deploy the equipment and means of rescue so that they are available within the shortest time limit possible and do not place them in a visibly marked space. So, almost identical violations, and differences in penalties are amazing. Because of all this, Minister, and because of what counterpart Zlatan Jovanovic said in the opening statement, it would be good, and I strongly recommend that you withdraw this law, to do a little bit of what I was talking about while you were in the O.R., and in the worst case, to accept our amendments to make the law look like something to you, because what you called the law is a guide to the use of public ski resorts. We had such a law yesterday and, apparently, this is some new trend in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the more norms, the more expressions, the more serious it seems, and the more serious it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26459	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26460	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for a country that as Serbia has great natural potential for the development of tourism law-making that should regulate this area is of paramount importance. I must remind myself that this Parliament's meeting has already passed a Law on Tourism, which is a roof law, but it is necessary to pass a series of laws governing the specific areas of this very broad matter. Because of this, this bill, which is now in front of us, is precisely important because it represents the arrangement of an area that has not been arranged so far. At first glance, it is clear that a very large number of people participated in the creation of this law, especially people who are engaged in tourism and tourist workers, but on the other hand and those who are sports workers, as well as those who are only sportingly defined to ski. It is also clear that the experiences and legislation of countries that have a tradition of skiing have been used, but also a highly developed network of ski resorts on their territory and here I primarily think of Alpine countries and some countries with the possibility of winter tourism. I must also remind myself that the countries in our environment, above all I think of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, have brought, of course, those who have the possibility of winter tourism and skiing, the laws in this area and I must say that such a law has Bosnia, but that this law is quite different from this, and that the model of this law that was publicly presented was a law which served as a model for Slovenia to pass a similar law. Of course, the aim of each law is to determine and regulate an area that has not been arranged until then, so the aim of this law is to enable the good and smooth functioning of winter mountain centres. It prescribes conditions for the organisation, maintenance and equipment of ski resorts, provision of ski resort services, marking and setting up signalling on the ski resort, use of ski transport means, as well as order and security at the same ski resort, teaching on the ski resort, as well as other issues which are important for the use of ski resorts. In addition to basic norms and basic provisions, the law also contains what has been repeatedly commented as negative, and I fully view it as very positive, it is a dictionary concept that can sound absurd, but it is simply necessary because what it represents to me does not mean something to someone else, and the law really has to do so in that way to regulate every notion that it means the exact same thing to each of us. Also, I have to say that here is fully regulated and explained basic concepts such as: ski services, ski paths, specialized winter sports activities and the like. These are terms defined in the same way in other European laws, which are fully in line with what the World Ski Federation is looking for and explaining in the same way, and of course one country that wants to offer its mountainous areas and its winter tourism as an opportunity for an international market is very important to be treated in the same way as some other countries that have made their national product and practically live out of it. Then, the law offers editing, marking, use and safety at the ski resort, which determines what the ski resort consists of, as well as how ski resorts and ski paths look like, as marked and classified according to the degree of weight, as well as who maintains ski resorts and ski paths. It's our old Serbian pain. We're able to do some really good things, but in maintenance we really don't always go in the right direction and leave them time and case they do something for us. Then, it refers to a signalling which is performed by setting up signs of ban, warning obligations, notifications, supplementary tables and light signals. Another important area is arranged, and these are the means of transportation in ski resorts. I have to remind you, several times my predecessors used it very well and reminded me of what it was like in the past, and now I'm talking about some ski resorts that are famous. More than once, the bathroom has been mentioned in a rather negative context. There was a lot of accidents there, because really motor sleds were a danger to the area, as they are used, where they are used, it is messy and it represents the need to be arranged. This law provides that motor sleds can only be used on specially marked routes and only official motor vehicles can exist on the track. The use of ski-lifts and cableways is also precise. It's very precise what a ski center can do and what everything has to be equipped with. The important segment of the law is also the fact that the law insists that the ski centre must establish a single rescue service and first aid service, which must be clearly marked, their headquarters. Also, a very important segment of the law is an area that regulates the maintenance of order and security at the ski resort, precisely what was so far missing and what only had large ski centres in us. I also find it very important to ensure the safety of all those who are on ski resorts and around ski slopes, and this law really offers a number of measures as far as possible. What shows how much this law has been made is that part of the law that defines what you can do and what you can't ski, as well as the part that regulates the field of skiing and skiing. The proposal for a ski resort law regulates all the issues of importance for the work of ski centres and the behaviour of ski users, represents a good legal framework for the business of ski centres, provides security on ski resorts and offers us the opportunity to integrate and integrate into the single tourist market. I must remind myself that this law offers the possibility of truly winter tourism, for which we have conditions, definitely becoming our national product. You should not be ashamed, because many countries, such as Italy, Austria, France, Switzerland, have made their national product, and they live very well out of it. I don't see why today's bill of law would represent something that is irrelevant and ridiculous, if we want to raise our national brand like, say, the Kopalnik, like Tara, I have to mention my Divcibars, which we're going to try to become something in the tourism frameworks of Serbia, although some here show that this is not possible. I think the proposal for this law is very good and I think it is the beginning of something that regulates this area. I hope that there will be a law behind it on cableways and ski lifts, and I hope that more small specific laws, conditionally small ones, so those who determine certain parts, will really quickly follow this law. The DSS will vote for this bill, and I think others should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26461	The People's MP Ivan Radic has the word, and let Arsen Đurić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a bill has finally come to the People's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, which is of vital interest to the citizens of Serbia. This is a law that will solve the problem of unemployment in Serbia, a law that will solve the bowing Serbian economy, a law that will in any case improve the citizens of Serbia?- I'm sorry. It's about the law on public ski resorts. We at the SRS MPs' club expect that soon in the procedure we will have a law on throwing stones off our shoulders, that we will have a law on pulling ropes and such a necessary law on fast drinking beer. We understand from the SRS that in order to speed up the development of winter tourism and sports activities in Serbia's ski resorts, it was necessary to put this issue on the agenda as quickly as possible, but we do not understand why, when it is so urgent, the proposal for this law stands for a year and a half in the procedure. I would like to remind you that he entered the National Assembly on 11 January 2005, so for a year and a half, he is waiting to come to the agenda, and it is of such importance for the development of winter tourism services in the Republic of Serbia and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you say. This bill, I am fully convinced, has been taken over by one of the Western laws and is therefore meaningless, unspoken, inadmissible and discriminatory. This bill offends the intelligence of the average citizen of Serbia. I'll give you only one example, and there's at least five, six. Article 12 says, "The ski track can only be used for skiing if there is an appropriate amount of snow on it." Please, can we, gentlemen, ski if there's no snow. I understand that such a provision stands in English legislation, where those semi-idiotic nations, whose laws allow marriage relations between relatives in the third generation, as we say, have certain mental problems, Serbs are still, thank God, a bright and keen people who can think properly, and these provisions really do not have room in Serbian laws. We expect from the SRS that by running this example, for example, in the fishing law, which follows us, you will say that fishing is only possible in riverbeds in which there is water or in traffic law that the movement of a vehicle is only possible where there are roads. The senselessness and indiscriminateness of this bill is reflected at every turn. I will state a few examples, for example, in Article 31, it says: "Transport by cable is a form of public transport and is carried out according to a defined driving order, which must be prominently highlighted at the starting and final station". The cable company, gentlemen, is not a bus in the city or in the suburban traffic to have a driving order. This is about the form of continuous transport and there is no way to talk about the order of driving, but only possibly about the timing. Furthermore, in the next article of the 32nd, you say, "The ski centre can interrupt the operation of a cable car or a ski lift only when the responsible person or director confirms that no person is using a cable car or a ski lift anymore." It's physically impossible because of the length of the cable car or the ski lift. It is often the opacity of their individual parts, so it is impossible to physically determine whether there is anyone else who uses those services on the cableway or ski lift, and a solution has been proposed, by the SRS amendment, to introduce a control drive to this control purpose. The following illogicality, and I would say contradictoryness is in Article 53(2), where it is said: "The directorial service can perform a person who has completed high school and who shows success in a special knowledge check". Please, what does "show success on a special knowledge check" mean? Already in view of the 5th member, you say that, the minister responsible for tourism affairs and the minister responsible for sports affairs agree to sign the way and programme of passing exams for directors. Don't jump in your mouth yourself, you could say in Section 2 that the director's office can perform a person with a high school degree and an exam for the directors. Because showing success on a special check can be insufficient, so this is kind of illogical, and I would say contradictory to each other. In the next article of 54, we have an example of the intertwination of jurisdiction where you don't know who's doing what, what's whose job and who's who's responsible. So in point 4 of point 1, you say the director is obliged to inform the tourist inspector if you ski or another direct user of the ski resort in the use of the ski resort does not adhere to the established ski resort. In the SRS' view, it's not a tourist inspector's job. It's the job of the director's office, because it's impossible to expect a tourist inspector to spend all day on the track waiting for the director to pull his sleeve and say, hey, there's a real problem, come see what it is. If there are at the same time a couple of such misdemeanors and a tourist inspector should be in several places at the same time. That's why we think it's a desk job and that's a far more logical solution. The real pearl of this bill are members of 55th and 56th that fully devis the legal text; these provisions are more general provisions and can be classified into general knowledge and behavior on the track and can make sense, for example in the rules for training skiers and directors, but cannot be regulated into the law. Just to list a few things that are in the opinion of us from the SRS absolutely pointless. It is said that the skier is obliged to drive carefully and adjust the speed and manner of driving to the knowledge and conditions of the track. For example, he says, a skier is obliged to cross the other skiers either left or right and always at such a distance to give them enough space for all their movements. Please, it would be like, let's say, in traffic law, we say, on foot when crossing the street you should look first left, then right, so if you make sure it's safe to step in August. I think it's some of the things that represent general culture, general education, and not to say home education and something to learn from small legs, so it's totally pointless to be the norm of this law. Why is this bill discriminatory, what I said at the beginning, and this is seen in Article 65 in paragraphs 1 and 3. I think every comment is too high. It's just enough to read and make it clear to everyone (in attitude 1.) It is said that the ski centre is obliged to provide equal conditions for the use of ski resorts to all skiing schools that have their headquarters in the local self-government unit on whose territory is the ski resort. Item 3 says, "In the cases referred to in Article 2, the priority is to ski schools which have their headquarters in local self-government units." I think enough has been said by the authorised representative, Mr Zlatan Jovanovic, as well as by her colleague, Verica Radeta. What do you say, except I don't have a comment on a text like this. So, to conclude my exposure, since the government of the Republic of Serbia has long sown Serbian citizens on thin ice when it comes to new jobs, when it comes to crime, when it comes to solving accumulated social problems, it has decided to regulate this important area, but it is absolutely certain that support from the SRS will not be obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26463	The word has a folk MP Arsen Djuric, and let Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26464	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my satisfaction with the proposal for a law on public ski resorts on the agenda of the Assembly, and I would disagree that this law is not important. On the contrary, I believe that it is very important, both for us tourist workers and for many users and lovers of this type of sport, because it prescribes conditions for the organisation of ski resorts and security issues both skiers and other skiers. Before I move on to an analysis of the law itself, I would like to say that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done a lot for the development of tourism in the last two years as the extremely important industries and perhaps the most prospective industries in Serbia. As you know, we adopted the Tourism Act, in the final phase is the creation of a strategy for the development of Serbia's tourism, which will provide guidance for further development of the tourism economy and year-on-year funds for improving and developing tourism, budgets, are increasing. These funds are planned in a budget of nearly a billion dinars this year and will be placed partly through subsidies, i.e. as grants for financing the production of project documentation and support of some tourist events, and partly through extremely favourable tourist loans, with an interest rate of 1% per year, for the construction of new and adaptation of existing accommodation facilities. As the minister said in his opening statement, for the first time this year it was planned with a budget of 500 million dinars to build the infrastructure of tourist centres in Serbia, creating a favourable environment and favourable conditions for investment, for investment, both domestic and foreign investors, and this means opening new jobs, developing these areas and further growth of tourism traffic and foreign inflow. I would also disagree with some of my colleagues who feel that this law is not properly processed and that it is inadequate. It was led by the widest public debate where, apart from the representatives of the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Education and Sports, representatives of all professional associations participated, and indeed this text, which is before us, was obtained, i.e. a general consensus was reached on this text, so I believe that it is indeed of quality. Natural resources and the rapid development of winter tourism and sports activities in Serbia's ski resorts have imposed the legal need to regulate ski resort issues and introduce order in this area. It is also very important that the adoption of this law will lead to the integration of the tourist offer of mountainous areas on the international market. This law defines the basic meanings of ski paths, ski-poligon routes, ski routes, and these meanings are consistent with the legislation of the European Union countries and some other countries, according to the World Ski Organisation. The basic elements of the organisation of the ski resort, infrastructure networks and facilities, the marking of the ski resort, are set out to classify the trails depending on the degree of weight of these tracks. It has also established the ski centre's obligation to form a first-aid rescue service and service as important elements of ski safety. The Government's amendments provide for the establishment of a public enterprise that will manage natural well-being in order to create preconditions for ensuring the technological and economic unity of the ski system, the more intensive development of mountain tourism resources. This public company will manage areas of special importance and general interest, and will not manage certain areas of local importance. Certainly, the construction of a ski resort that is of local importance will contribute greatly to the completion of Serbia's tourist offer and the development of these environments. One such ski resort is located on Zlatibor, it's about the ski centre "Tornik" and finally, after a few years or three days ago, property legal relations related to the ski centre "Tornik"; the "Serbian" carried out the transfer of land use rights to the Čajetin municipality. In the next 15 days, we will have a tender for the construction of the ski resort and I sincerely hope that we will be skiing on the 'Tornik' for the next winter tourist season. I want to say that the DSS will support this bill and I urge all MPs to vote for it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26465	The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just thought we'd never make it to this Europe, when, what, the system laws that lead us directly into it. With this ski law, I expected it to be like an annex to this law to be a law on sanctions, then a law on Bob paths. So, this law on ski resorts, which is the system law, is therefore far more important for citizens of Serbia and Serbia than the Criminal Code and the Constitution?- I'm sorry. As it started, and with that Law banning piracy on the open sea which we adopted several months ago, which you adopted several months ago, and Serbia has no sea, and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has Adriatic Sea that doesn't count on the open sea, even the Mediterranean doesn't count on the open sea, but we have banned pirates from our territory, on the open sea to pirates, and of course, this law on seal protection that is being prepared, I expect the Government to propose it by emergency procedure to the National Assembly, and also to adopt it, and then we'll get another study on feasibility, so unlike all the others, we have two studies on feasibility, before you introduce us in that Europe, if you ever introduce us. I said yesterday, how you're taking us to this Europe, by the time we get to it, everyone will come out of it and we'll be there alone again. What bothers me about Mr. Bojan, the minister, is that he took Velya's manners. Velja Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments, whenever a law suggests, has previously prescribed half of Vujaklia in the 1st or 2nd member, and here, Minister Dimitrijevic, has so far passed draft laws without this, and has now taken him to copy. Well, let's read what's written in that article 3. 1) "Services on the ski resort are" exactly, if it weren't for this member, none of us would know what Serbian citizens are doing on the ski slope, and like this, before they go skiing, he says, "Organizing skiing and specialized winter sports activities, teaching skiing, renting and serviceing ski equipment, accepting and serving skiers and other skiers." What other skiers are these, if they're not skiers? 2) Skiing is a winter sport activity, ladies and gentlemen MPs, recreational or competitive character, consisting of alpine skiing, Nordic skiing and snowboarding. Snoubord is a newspaper that appeared ten years ago in our premises and you see, the minister placed it in a concept called skiing. 3) Specialized winter sports activities are sledding, ski-bob, jumps, motorcycle-sunning, tire landing, deep snow skiing, snow paragliding and other similar winter sports activities. I know paragliding is also summer sports activity. 4) The skier, therefore, is a natural person who is engaged in skiing in recreation or is on a ski course for skiing. So, the skier's a physical face, he can't be a legal person. So the company can't be a skier. 5) "The ski course is a decorated and marked area of the ski resort, intended for skiing and skiing teaching" etc. Then we have what's a ski-polygon. Then, the ski student is a physical person who learns to ski, from point 1) to point 23. This Article 3 in any law, if defined this way, is absolutely unnecessary, in this law certainly unnecessary. One thing, before I move on to the other members of the bill. We have the Kopalnik and many MPs have spoken of the Kopalnik as an extremely high-quality ski centre, and while Ministers, let me inform you, the Kopalnik is still insecure, since the bombing, because NATO aviation has spilled cluster bombs right next to the track and on the trails, and that specialized company that this government paid, mainly from Croatia, was supposed to clean up, the contract said, 50 centimeters underground or on the surface of the country. The bathroom just around the ski trails was surrounded by a Chettinarian forest, and the tape bombs have parachutes, because that's how they land on the ground when that container opens. There's over 250 of them, so they're scattered. Many tape bombs now hang on the branches and wait for them to rot a rope, or a parachute that holds them, or the wind blows and they fall down and they ski. The ski centre of the bathroom is uncleaned and insecure! The tower was also destroyed. What's being taken over now, that's fine. But Tornik was bombed by ammunition with impoverished uranium. This should be told to Serbian citizens who dare to be skiers under your Article 3. It's obvious that the law is prescribed, that it's mistranslated. Article 8 states: "The ski resort and access roads to the ski resort cannot be built on areas that are under normal snowfalls exposed to avalanches". All right, all right. "The ski resorts and ski paths are arranged depending on which recreational or competitive winter sports activity is intended." Of course, but it shouldn't stand in the law, it should stand in the direction of maintaining ski paths and ski paths. "The ski slopes on the ski slope must be wide enough, transparent enough, with an appropriate slope and height difference and prepared so that there are no holes, drills, stone complexes or other dangerous places." Minister, who's crazy about making a ski course and in the middle of the thunderbolts? First, clear the ground. It's perfectly normal for the ground to be cleared, the holes to be filled, the stones to be removed, to be mined, and then to make a ski course. It is particularly interesting, he says, "The ski resort, or its trails intended for ski activities at night, must have adequate lighting, including direct approaches, so that the safety of all persons on the track and its approaches is ensured." There are no paths that are not lit, only for daily use. Is it forbidden to open a ski path that will only be used during the day? Mostly these ski trails that are lit up at night are not used. My colleagues from the SRS have already mentioned Article 54(6) several times, but I have to mention it too. He says: “The regular in his duties has been authorized to deny one or more rides by a cable car that threatens or threatens the safety of the use of ski resorts, or cableways (drinking faces and faces under the influence of drugs, persons who do not comply with the established rules of conduct... "'and so forth. Drunk faces and faces under the influence of drugs can't see that sergeant, because there's a couple of people at the ski resort at once. Second, and if he sees them, what will he do to them if they say "I won't"? He's a particularly interesting member of 55 who says, "The skier is obliged to," so point 5) "when he wants to get involved in a drive on a track or when after stopping on a track he continues to make sure, looking above and below... ". I guess back and forth, 'cause it's up and it's down. It doesn't fit what you wanted to say. Then point 6 says, "The skier is obliged not to stop without an emergency (stop driving) on a narrow... "; 7) "in the case of a climb, i.e. a return to the track, or when a foot goes down for movement, it uses only the edge of the track", to say immediately in point 8) that the track does not climb on foot but uses the cableway. So much has already been said about things that don't belong to this law. Article 65 says, "The rules laid down in Article 1 do not apply to the restriction of the use of ski paths by skiing schools, which the school centre introduces during the day to ensure the safety of skiers due to too many skiers on the track." (Finished capacity? ) It is that only schools registered in local self - government territory can be released by the ski center. It's a clean discrimination against all schools whose headquarters is outside that local self-government. So can school from Brzeć to Kopalnik, and can't school from Bruce or schools from Kruševec. I don't think this should stand here. In the end, why is the law not regulated to form public enterprises? Ladies and gentlemen, the reason is very simple. At a moment of enthusiasm, Minister Ilic clearly and unequivocally said: he is preparing to sell it either to the tycoons who support and support some of the participants of this government or to some from the government, because ski resorts will be, both those who exist and those who are built, an exceptional source of income. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is not going to vote for this bill, and so are you two from the ruling coalition, and I'm not counting on the minister and his deputy or assistant, but only the MPs in the O.R., and I urge you to press the red button when it comes to voting on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26467	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, and let Zivan Vladimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26468	Ladies and gentlemen, I watched this law a long time ago, when we got it, after that I didn't, so I wasn't going to talk about the law today. When I heard from the minister that significant funds were to be spent in the development of this kind of tourism, and most of it for the Old Mountain, since I'm from the Old Mountain, then I wanted to say a few words. The old Mountain, from Vrška Čuka to Dimitrovgrad, is a beautiful mountain, full of pastures, meadows, forests, springs, a hot, one unseen natural beauty that is not completely destroyed by modern civilization, intact nature, but unfortunately empty – there are no more people on the Old Mountain. It all moved away, went to the Bookkeeper, Zaječar, Negotin, etc., so she completely relaxed. The village where I was born had 100 homes. And now? When I was back there, I think there's only five; out of those five homes only in two homes you have younger people, and those younger people are 50 years old. There's no people. That's too bad. That's too bad. That's too bad. I'm counting on an investment like this in the Old Mountain, and I know exactly where that location is, because I was born next to it, in the neighboring village, under Babi's Zub, which is called the Black Mountain, there's supposed to be this sports center, it's an extraordinary opportunity to build something there, and such an investment, if it were to make a winter center, would mean a great deal to not only that people from the Old Mountain, but for a good part of eastern Serbia. When something is made, the winter center, tourist center, there is work to be done, roads, hotels etc. Many years ago, my colleagues and friends in Belgrade who were talking about hunting -- let's take us to the Old Mountain, we want to go hunting there, because there are various savages there. I was saying -- you know what, there's nowhere to spend the night, there's no hotel, there's nothing. There is a hotel in the Black Summit and Babina Zub that has made the Elektro-distribution of Serbia, a smaller hotel that looks nice and everything is decent, slightly smaller objects, but it's all so negligiblely small. First, to get there, you have to make roads. Whether it goes from Književci, whether it goes through Svrlig, one big road reconstruction must be done first so that the tourist who is going to ski or not can get there by car, bus or another. Other ways, though, no, no trains in the area, but by bus or by car. So, first that. Then it's a big job to hire workers, etc. Then, building a hotel, and it should make hotels of different classes for both poor and rich people, certainly guests from abroad would come, whether they were skiing or so. They're looking for a very high standard, but there's another world, especially climbers. Mountainers are a very modest world, they sleep very often in collective rooms, more than 20 of them, sleeping in one room, hence a saying – there is no sin in the mountain. That would be very significant for the entire area that has been neglected all these years, a portion of that population that has left the mountains would return. He would go back to the Old Mountain to deal with livestock, to produce food for that people who would come there, and he should feed, because now you can't see a flock of sheep or a herd of cattle in these beautiful pastures, because there are no people. There are extraordinary conditions for livestock farming, healthy food, pastures intact, as they say to God to give, do not ask for any special maintenance etc., unpainted, unpolluted, but there is no one to deal with. Therefore, even if some credits were helped to bring people back up to practice livestock, to restore herds, livestock funds, etc., to collect natural fruits, blueberries, forest strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, herbs, mushrooms, etc. That, perhaps, looks like a little something, there's a lot there and of all these natural products could be very nice to live on. One should be encouraged, and then the development of such a center would be one good call for the people to return there. I wouldn't just be talking about winter sports centers. There are a number of citizens who prefer to use vacations on the mountains rather than at sea. I'm one of those who prefers to go to the mountains than to the sea. Therefore, this law could be called the mountain tourism law. I wouldn't mind the title of this law. Not only are centers made, but hotels, roads and other infrastructures, so that you can go there in winter and fly to use huge wealth and beauty. Let me just tell you something that might look like an anecdote. When I was with one of my friends in Belgrade, who is usually a city child, walking, so we came across a stream and I ducked and drank water from the stream. And he asks, "What are you doing?" And I say, drink freely, I know where this stream springs and I know it goes all the way here through the woods, maybe just some rabbit jumped over this stream. He bends down, gets drunk with these natural waters, no consequences whatsoever. And that's why, whether this law has any shortcomings or not in terminology, regardless of all that, if it even contributes a little bit and the investments go to the Old Mountain, I'm going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26469	The word has a National MP, Živan Vladimirovic, and let Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the representatives of the SRS have mostly told us all about this law. I'd just like to repeat in a few details, consider myself a professional face and as a professor of physical culture and, to some extent, a skier. I'd start with Article 3, which was already said that, the ski resort only represents if it's lit up and if it's lit up is a ski resort. However, ski resorts are suitable for skiing, ski slopes down the hill and each such terrain is a ski resort. There is still a lot of illogicalness, which can easily be corrected and which would not violate the law, which can be acceptable to the minister. I think some law would be appropriate and acceptable. I'll look back on the ski-road protection zone. It's a width space of up to five meters. There should still be some distance, some distance that would represent a certain security for a person who loses his skis, so he can't go down the skis, he has to walk down the track, or if he wants to go up the track. It happened that a skier went up the track with a ski lift and when he looked down the hill he took off the skis on his back and came down. He overestimates his opportunities as a skier and is forced to go down. It takes this minimum zone of a few meters, three to four, next to a ski track to make it safer. I went to the Kopalnik at the time when it wasn't this crowded and overcrowded. More people can't even afford to go there. It became a Monden ski resort where you can only see jeeps and angry cars and cars. That's right, Ministers, BMWs, Audis, Mercedes and other carnivores. Now out there they're running wild, the boabs, so out of control, it's insecure. I did not notice in the law that it was envisaged, which is prohibited in many Western countries, the movement of motor vehicles on ski slopes, is allowed to reach a certain height, a certain place where cars are parked, and in the ski resorts there are vehicles that are moving on an electric drive. You have this in many ski resorts in France, Switzerland, and knowing that the Kopalnik is successful as a rare species of Pančić's fatigue, it is unlikely to enjoy the exhaust gases of carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide, and there will be a degradation of a beautiful, exceptional mountain. Also, it has already been said here that it was not necessary to build large capacities at the top of the mountain, but that there were great opportunities down in Brzeća or on the other side of Josianska Banja, that accommodation facilities should have been built there, and to build either gondolas or saddles or ski lifts that could ski to the top of the mountain and ski there perform what he went to the mountain for. In Article 8, it is said that it should not be built on terrains that are subject to rocks, avalanches. Well, I don't think anyone's going to build there for purely economic reasons, because if one accident happens, no one's going to go there again. I don't think that's very logical. Also, this Article 12, I wouldn't comment on the use of ski paths only if there was a certain amount of snow, although we as children and on the grass skied a little bit, but we needed a little stronger steepness. In Article 19. – It is nice that all trails should be marked, because, after all, there are skiers more skilled, there are beginners, there are people in years and it depends not only on the skills, but depending on the condition, on the condition of the organism. Because a man in some mature years, no matter how skillful he is, can't perform something more intensely on extreme paths like the tracks on Bezovica, in the Kopalnik, and they're not as steep a path, except for the Deep One heading towards Brzec, which is also tested and prepared for the top-notch competitions. It says "extremely heavy runway." Pista, it sounds more like a Formula One race to me than a ski course, only if you go over and you skip both pines and trees. Article 28 says, "The ski-road planning mechanism can be used at a time when cablers and ski-lifts don't work." I think there are certain paths to introduce those war-traces and other track-tools, to simply shut down the ski-lift so that there is no injury. Because someone's skilled, someone's not skilled, someone can stop at two meters, and someone can't even go to 50, so that would be one good correction. Article 31 states: "Transport by cable is a form of public transport and is carried out according to a defined driving order". The wire works continuously, so until it goes out. I don't think the cable car has a turn-on, but it's already got a working time when it's on and when it's shut down, the work ends. Around the lighting of the ski tracks, I can get some ski paths, I can't get them all lit up. Someone gets bored at night, someone else likes to do something else, so that doesn't have to be a condition for all ski paths to be lit up. The director's office, that's a member of 53rd, says, "The Redary Service can perform a person who has finished high school," I don't know why, "and who shows success on a special knowledge check." As students of physical culture, we passed a certain course or as part of the course when we laid for example for ski teachers or for a lifeguard at the pool, river or lake, we had a certain exam regardless of what we passed the swimming or skiing exam. It is said in Article 54(4) that "instruction a tourist inspector if you ski or another direct user of the ski resort in the use of the ski resort does not adhere to a set order on the ski resort". It's true, that order should be brought in, but does the inspector also have the physical strength to master the undisciplined? That's where the police should be involved. From what I've seen, there are police patrols on the Kopalnik, and to disburse the Ministry of the Interior's budget, they can command some of the police on skis. Since a lot of things have been said and I don't want to repeat myself, I just need to say one more thing. I mentioned with the Minister at one of the Tourism Committee the possibilities of the Warm County, I have to repeat that. Lukovska Banja is located on Kopalnik, I see that something is not planned to be built there, it is over 1,000 meters above sea level, the surrounding peaks are at 1,300, 1,400 meters. These are extremely beautiful slopes of the Bath, exceptional conditions for Nordic skiing. There could be better capacity utilisation because it would combine Banish and mountain tourism, and I think investment would be cost-effective and economically sustainable, and the Toplic district would be very important. Now I would ask a parliamentary question to the complete government of Serbia: why did they forget Toplička district, why nothing is being invested there, why isn't it planned anywhere? It's true that we don't have the Shiptars as a national minority, but we have the Roma, because all the resources that are planned are being allocated where there's Shiptar. There are no Shiptars in Toplica, but there are poor people, there are honest and decent citizens who ask me every day as an opposition MP why I don't do anything for Toplici County. I tell them I'm not powerful, I tell them that the ministries are so divided that they're ethnically pure or partyally pure that practically MPs can call, I'm doing this at this point so my Toplicians don't mind me saying – you never called to ask for anything. Yeah, I've always used the opportunity to look for something for the Warm County, to do something, because it's too bad. The thermal district has made a lot of contributions in all wars and in the last. The response to mobilization was 98% in Toplička County, not only in this war but in all wars. A certain one should remember, the Serbian government, that there is a Toplički District, especially that it is a displaced area, that the municipality of Kursumli has fewer inhabitants, almost double, than 50 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-11-0.u26471	I thank Mr Vladimirovic. The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and to prepare Darko Glisic. They're gone. Is someone who hasn't used... You should've asked the minister, maybe he wanted a word. He may have something smart to say, but you didn't ask him. )......................................................................................................... Mrs. Radeta, only if you ask me to leave and return the minister. Mr. Baralic, I have no intention of leaving when I'm stuck. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask the minister before concluding a principled search, but there is nothing there. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? There's no one here. I'm finishing the initial search. I'm scheduled to resume the session tomorrow for 10.00, debate from 12th to 15th of the agenda. Thank you.
