ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29137	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all a good day. I thank the media for their understanding and ask them to allow the session to begin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 210 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 170 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Veroljub Stevanovic has been prevented from attending the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have invited Mr Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia to this session, and I now welcome the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministers present to take part in this session, as well as representatives of the negotiating team. We are moving to confirm the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a National MP, to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dragan Todorovic, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dragan Todorovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for an emergency session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n e d e d: 1. A report on the course of talks on a political solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Report on the course of the discussion on the political solution of the future status of Kosovo and Metohije You received a report on the work of the state negotiating team on political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija between 24 February 2006 and 10 September 2006, with a proposal for a decision by the government. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of their members. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds, Democratic Party - 43 minutes, 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes, 24 seconds, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, two SDP MPs and six independent MPs - five minutes under Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Does Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29138	Dear People's MPs, you unanimously entrusted the executive and its negotiating team with representing the interest of the people and states in negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status at the beginning of the year. We then took the obligation to keep you regularly informed of the course of the negotiations and of all that we do, and here we have fulfilled the obligation, as you can see. You, like all citizens of Serbia, must know that during the past period there has been no argument that we have not presented, opportunities we haven't questioned, doors we haven't knocked on, that we haven't missed anything before. We kept our patience, which is also important, and our compatriots, and we stuck to the framework that you, as Parliament, have determined by your resolution. Faced, it's well known, with severe prejudices, prejudices and biases, faced with the absence of reason and unpreparedness to compromise, we tried and, I believe, managed to remain firm and reasonable. All of these are reasons that the Serbian government has asked for this session to be called and an opportunity to stand before you with a report on future moves made and proposals. All of us, honourable MPs, and our entire generation, at this historic moment, has a destiny responsibility to come forward and make a decision on Kosovo and Metohija together. We are not the first to declare in the history of our people and our state about Kosovo, but we know that this response was one and only possible in all times, since those who left their lives in Kosovo more than six centuries ago, through all the generations that lived, fought and died for Kosovo. The response said Kosovo has always been and will forever be an integral part of Serbia. This, of course, makes our position at this historic moment both easier and difficult. On the one hand, he is difficult because we must be aware of the greatest responsibilities and worthy of giving the right answer. On the other hand, the situation is facilitated because the answer to Kosovo's fate issue cannot be new, because while Serbia's second answer does not exist. A team before this question is raised to us today in a way that has never been asked of us before and that today is also being asked of us for something that has never been asked of anyone. We are required, no less or less, to give up Kosovo and Metohija and agree with an unheard intention to form another independent Albanian state in our territory. The state of Serbia must therefore again declare Kosovo today. We must do so with full awareness of the gravity and long-term historical issue we have faced. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely nothing must remain unsaid, nothing cloudy, nothing foggy and nothing vague. On the contrary, we must, looking into the eyes of those who decide Kosovo's fate and thus the fate of Serbia itself, defend our sovereignty before the whole world and legalize our position with all democratic means. Since Serbia exists, every member of our people has been born and dies with the awareness that Kosovo has always been and will forever be an integral part of Serbia. To us at this time, Serbian citizens have fallen into the greatest obligation to reaffirm this truth, writing it down in large and indelible letters to Serbia's new constitution this time. This means only one thing: for the state of Serbia, Kosovo will never be independent. It also means that even if legal violence were kidnapped, for Serbia, Kosovo, under the Constitution of the state, will always be an integral part of it. If we make a decision today to write in Serbia's new constitution the indisputable truth that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, we will make a fateful and only possible decision. [[Applause]] In this way, we are sending everyone an unambiguous message that the state of Serbia, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, only commits what is in its constitution. In other words, the whole world must know that, as long as there is a state of Serbia, Kosovo will be its inseparable province for us. Because of all this, today it is essential that Serbia bring a new constitution, in which we unanimously, through the will of all parties, and more importantly, through the will of the entire people and of all citizens, expressed in the referendum, confirm that Kosovo and Metohija is simply Serbia. If so far there have been more or less justified and objective obstacles to the adoption of a new constitution, now that Kosovo is concerned, everything must be subject to this highest state and national interest. Of course, in advance, we can reject any thought that a referendum on a new constitution might fail. I firmly believe that we all share the belief that there is no citizen of Serbia who would not go to a referendum on a new constitution just to confirm that Kosovo is ours and that it remains an integral part of Serbia forever. You know we spoke to representatives of the Albanian community from Kosovo and Metohija in Vienna on 24 July. Some of them are also known to suspect that their hands are bloody from war crimes committed against Serbs. In these talks, everything they have announced in the presence of international representatives can be fully aware that Albanians would simply like to have another Albanian state, and this new one, in Serbia's territory. Their strong will and keen desire to bow to them 15 per cent of Serbian territory, in order to have another state, not one, but not a single argument and for any rational reason they failed to support or explain. In this conversation, by every measure far superior, our argument, based on the principles of justice, international law, democratic values and European standards, was shown. Since in this, as on any other occasion, we remained deprived of at least one argument in favour of Kosovo's independence, at the next round of negotiations, on 8 August, an international mediator, Martti Ahtisaari, made sure that our delegation had so far provided the only argument in favour of independence. This outrageous argument that our people are being taken away from territory now knows the whole world, and it says, I quote Ahtisaari's words - that Serbs are as guilty as the people. If anyone in Serbia or in the international community is still wondering if Ahtisaari really said that Serbs are guilty as a people, the answer is categorical: he said exactly that and that's exactly what he said. We reacted to this Ahtisaari attitude in a balanced and principled way, not excessively, as can be heard. The least we expected was for Ahtisaari to apologize to the Serbian people. But it turned out that this diplomat was harder to apologize than to offend an entire nation. Not only did he not do what was natural and just in itself, but soon came out with new charges against Serbia. While that is the case, the National Assembly of Serbia is bound to clearly and unequivocally condemn Ahtisaari's statement that Serbs are guilty as a people. After all, what is the authority of the international mediator and how much more can be believed in his impartiality and objectivity, at least as far as Serbia is concerned, is too high to speak. Serbia's assembly must find a lasting and comprehensive response to all possible difficulties ahead of us around Kosovo. I am firmly convinced that our best response, both far-reaching and in time necessary to withstand all the pressures and all the temptations that may arise in the meantime, is that, in the shortest time, by the end of December, by adopting a new constitution in the Serbian Parliament, we confirm the unique and unrelenting position that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. On the other hand, any solution based on impose, force and legal violence would be nothing more than a naked and brutal kidnapping of our territory. And when nearly one sixth of the territory is kidnapped by a free, sovereign and democratic country, then all the foundations are actually shaken and all the democratic values are destroyed, the principles of international law, the international order, are being violated, calling into question only the formation of the modern world, and all of this is a serious threat to the stability of our region together. Our attitude and our argument are perfectly clear. They repeat them: Serbia, when it comes to Kosovo, is talking about its constitution, talks about the principles of international law on which the UN rests and the overall international order, talks about widely accepted democratic values and talks about European standards of resolving minority issues; Serbia is talking about compromise and a historic fair solution. It speaks of Serbs living together with Albanians for centuries and saying that we want this common life in the province, for the first time in history, to be based on democratic principles, in terms of essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. Now the question is, what in all this can be controversial, what is wrong with the attitudes represented by Serbia? Is it wrong to represent respect for the principle of international law, on which today's international order rests, or may we be wrong when we advocate a compromise solution? In any case, before anyone comes to mind to tell us that we should give up one sixth of our territory, and that territory in which our country was destroyed and where the spirit of our nation and culture was born, you would have to consider that such a case or, better say, an experiment has not yet happened in European history. In particular, countries that could be close to the idea of Kosovo's independence should think carefully about how much it represents 15% of their territory, in order to better understand what it is they are asking Serbia to do. There is hardly a more convincing argument than the undisputed truth that such abductions were never and nowhere, and that none of the states agreed to that, nor could they agree. If a country is willing to give 15 per cent of its territory instead of Serbia, it may be possible to meet the faith and will of Albanians to create another state of their own. As for Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is our territory and no one will be able to give away what is ours. Serbia, in this 21st century, must be subject to the same rules and principles as all European democratic states. An attempt to impose precedents, just when it comes to Kosovo, would mean that we are required as a state and a people to humble ourselves, to give up our dignity and to throw the face of the entire nation under our feet. All of us, more than well, know that one man cannot defend Kosovo, as one man cannot even lose it. Kosovo can only defend the entire people or if it decides to do so, it can lose it. Since its existence, Kosovo has been and will remain a universal property and concern, the whole of Serbia and the entire Serbian people. A strong and targeted national will, if it seals a referendum on the new constitution, which will once again confirm that Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, will be the most reliable guarantee that we have given a decent answer in the new historic exam on Kosovo, the only right answer. The Serbian government considers it an extremely good and wise decision by the assembly to approve participation in talks on the province's future status, launched by the UN Security Council. Serbia has thus shown that it is able to assume its part of responsibility for finding a compromise solution, which would satisfy essential interests both in Serbia and the Albanian community in the province. Our position is objectively facilitated by the fact that all relevant arguments are on Serbia's side. But there's a question of what stands against these and these arguments. Converse with them are very dangerous, more or less secret ideas about ethnically clean and independent Kosovo. These ideas are based on nothing but an argument of force. Our negotiating team has been prepared in the most serious way for each of the topics and every form of conversation that has been conducted so far. We have been responsible and reasoned on all occasions explaining our views, and the strength of our arguments is the most likely reason so far that there is no progress in the talks. It is simply that the Albanian side is not at all interested in seriously negotiating, superseded, in the colossal belief that Albanians have been given advances to what does not belong to them, which is Kosovo's independence. When it comes to Kosovo, Serbia is not allowed any arbitraryness or relief. Therefore, we will not allow a single one to be put in the wrong place, regardless of whether decentralisation, religious and cultural heritage, economics or any other topic is discussed. A number of times, criticism of Belgrade's unconstructive or inflexible behaviour in the talks so far could be heard from various sides. This criticism means something completely different. It actually means that Belgrade is considered inconclusive only because it refuses to agree to Kosovo's independence. And precisely because it does not agree and will never agree to take away its territory, Serbia has chosen in fact the most constructive and responsible role, when the more long-term observation of stability, peace and prosperity of our region is, without a doubt, the most lasting values. Everyone needs to know that Serbia will not support any easily thought-out and hasty solution, which would create a precedent and only make it worse than a complex Kosovo problem. To all who are in a hurry to resolve this issue as soon as possible, in time, we draw attention to that we, not them, live in this region. In particular, we stress that those whose lives are concerned know how much better and at the same time a sustainable solution than any premature, nervous, and extorted decision. Finally, it is also the right place to underline that our country's responsible participation in the Kosovo and Metohija status talks does not mean that Serbia, by the very fact of its participation in the talks, could give legitimacy and some imposed solution. Serbia can, is ready and will certainly give legitimacy to the solution that is the result of the agreement and which is a compromise. Our proven commitment to compromise gives us the right to, according to the resolution adopted by this assembly, resolutely reject and declare invalid any solution that would not be a fruit of agreement with Serbia. Finally, respected MPs, although our arguments, all of them to one, superior and undeniable, must be even more strongly supported by the confirmation of the unwavering will of the people of Serbia to defend what is ours - Kosovo and Metohija by all political and legal means. The one-hearted belief of the entire people that we are fighting for a just and true thing leaves us, in fact, without another choice. Today, more than ever, we are obliged to oppose law and justice any attempt to impose Kosovo's independence. If we really do as much as we can and must for Kosovo and Serbia at the same time, our people and history certainly won't forget that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29139	Thank you. I ask if the team's co-ordinators want the word for political talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija - Slobodan Samardzic, adviser to the Prime Minister? Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29140	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, you have received a report on the negotiations between February and today, so the report made up by the Coordinators of the Negotiating Team, Mr Leon Cohen and myself. If you had received and read it, I would not have kept in mind the many facts that exist in that report, but I would have just drawn a few conclusions that the Negotiating Team has come to, given the past six months and given the numerous facts that existed during these negotiations. As the report shows, the current course of negotiations has not produced any tangible results. In Vienna, no agreement was reached on decentralisation of government in the province, nor on the protection of Serbian religious and cultural heritage, nor on property and privatisation issues, and even less on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. However, it would be wrong to conclude that the negotiations themselves were completely useless, from the point of view of the defence of vital national and state interests. Such a conclusion loses sight of the fact of essential importance. Since the first day of his work, the state negotiating team has been determined not to agree to any solutions that would question the fundamental values on which the survival of the state, people and the Church in Kosovo and Metohija rests. If the state is concerned, this fundamental value is Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, which excludes any form of independence as solutions to the province's future status. The most Kosovo and Metohija can gain, without jeopardising the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, is broad autonomy. That's what we offer at the negotiations. If the people are concerned, the fundamental value is the fundamental rights of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, which, when it comes to Serbs, and to a large extent other non-Albanians, have been most brutally threatened since the establishment of an international administration in the province in June 1999. In negotiations on decentralisation of government in the province, we are asking Serbs and, in general, non-Albanians to return those fundamental rights, by being institutionally guaranteed. Serbs must get their own institutions of local self-government, through which they will be guaranteed the right to freedom and security, to protect national and cultural identity, to freedom of expression and political action, to freedom of religion and to protect property. If it is a church, the fundamental value is the protection of the eternal existence of Orthodoxism in Kosovo and Metohija, which means full freedom and security of operation of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the province, including the free access of believers to all churches and monasteries, as well as the real protection of Orthodox churches and monasteries from all forms of violence, endangerment and vandalism. After more than half a year of negotiations, it is clear to everyone that Serbia will thinkfully, but ultimately resolutely, defend these fundamental interests of its country, its people and its churches. There is nothing unusual about this determination, but it has surprised a part of the international public, where it has been talking for years about Kosovo and Metohija's independence as a possible and desirable solution. Therefore, for key actors in the international community, especially those in favour of unilateral and non-refundable solutions, the cosmetic issue is no longer as easy as it was before the talks on the province's future statute began. In Serbia, all democratic standards of human and minority rights are fully respected and met as a true multiethnic state. During that time, Kosovo and Metohija, from June 1999 until today, Serbs and Albanians do not enjoy even the most basic rights that are understood everywhere in the civilized world. The ethnic cleansing of the huge proportions in Cosmet after June 1999 and the eruption of Albanian violence in March 2004 are only the most visible manifestations of the full disenfranchisement of the non-Albanian people in the province. The black and white perception of Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija is therefore simply not sustainable anymore. It is therefore not even certain promises of Kosovo's independence, which have been made lightly to the Albanian side before and after NATO's intervention in 1999, but today is no longer so easy to fulfill. The position of those who openly advocate Kosovo and Metohija independence is unprotective from the point of view of international law and widely accepted relations between democratic states, and Serbia has also called for this fact in the Security Council, both in Vienna and in bilateral contacts with other countries. The experience so far in the negotiations, however, shows that it is not necessary to reject the possibility that very influential circles in the international community try to make the international legal precedent for Serbia in the case of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, in this case it would come out of the negotiating framework and the solution would be imposed in one way or another, but in any case, with a harsh violation of international law and a lack of respect for Serbia's fundamental interests as a democratic and peaceful country. If there is an attempt on Serbia's part to impose independence on Kosovo and Metohija, the possibility of using additional pressure on our country should not be completely excluded. Issues that do not officially relate to Kosovo and Metohija in the international community, such as commitments to the UN tribunal in The Hague, Serbia's accession process to the European Union, the situation and status of Republika Srpska, the suit of Bosnia and Herzegovina against Serbia at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, may all be linked to the province's future status tomorrow, so as not to find a way for Serbia to agree to yield. Any policy of this kind will be resolutely rejected from our side and will have no success. The only thing she can bring is destabilising opportunities in the region, and that is why we should hope that no one will try to resort to her and replace her with a reasonable policy of seeking compromise. The negotiating team fully based its activity on the Platform on Kosovo and Metohija's future status and believes it should continue to do so. The reasons for this are the following - on the one hand, the frameworks set by the Platform provide an extremely wide area of possible compromise, and on the other hand, these frameworks represent a minimum that our side should not go under. Of course, it takes two people to compromise justly. So representatives of Kosovo Albanians, including international mediators themselves, would have to show the same desire Serbia has shown from day one to such a compromise and come. Dear People's MPs, keeping in mind all these facts and processes mentioned in the report, is our view that Serbia, despite all difficulties, should continue negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. It is not few who wish the space of a unilaterally imposed solution to open our side, by withdrawing from the negotiations. In that sense, the strongest resistance we can give these expectations is to remain in negotiations, with a consistent push for our views on Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, on the inalienable rights of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, on the necessity of full protection of the Serbian Orthodox Church and its sanctity in the province. The maneuvering space is such that the only possible attitude is a persistent and firm performance, based on convincing arguments, the willingness to be flexible in things that do not question our basic position and the awareness that strength gives us the support of all serious political forces and the entire society in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29141	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. I ask, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came to this session in the belief that we wouldn't have some serious report to discuss. You will see it when you read the report, if you have arrived, because indeed our team says that there has been no and that they have been prevented, both from the representatives of the Albanian side and from the UN representatives, the entire team, and also from Martti Ahtisaari himself. I came to this session ready to hear already the sworn oaths of the highest state officials, and now to repeat them, because the situation is very serious, and about all the cards on the table. So, let me hear what Kosovo and Metohija think about the status of the government and the president of Serbia. I heard a speech from the Prime Minister. Of course, no one can be a radical except for the Serbian Radical, but I could say that, in today's situation and in all that is happening in Serbia and in the world, we could also vote to accept that report by the Prime Minister. I am sorry that I did not hear from the President of the Republic, because I see that the team is being formed again, a democratic bloc is being prepared for the new elections, so I would like to hear what the democratic bloc thinks about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and that today we will make a decision that we will all stand behind – that Kosovo and Metohija are mostly part of Serbia and that there is no more there after the withdrawal, that there is no more of this deviation. If anyone appreciates the National Assembly, then he must not wait for the MPs to speak, so that he may speak afterwards. People's MPs need to hear everything, to have arguments, to watch, to follow, to write, and then to say, you, sir, said that and that, I agree, you said that and you said that, and I disagree. I don't count on the President of the Government or the President of the Republic talking to us at the end, because then it's a talk for television, for cameras, it's not talking to the National Assembly and to the MPs. Whoever wishes to hear the attitude of the MPs of the people about his opinion, he gives his opinion before the messengers and waits for them to respond to his views. That is why I warn the President of the Republic, he was also doing this at the previous session, when we had Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda. I don't agree with that. You do whatever you want, Mr. Tadic, but I'm telling you, as a MP, that I disagree, and I don't know if I agree with your views, I haven't heard them. I'm guessing you're not just here to see you, I assume you want to talk. It would have been very good if you had spoken, even before the Prime Minister, but that's your relationship with the National Assembly. Let me remind you, that you run to react when something else happens, and even when you're judged, you and your associates, badly, and when something happens that you react to, and then it turns out that you didn't have to react, because it's not what it looks like in public. This is about Kosovo and Metohija, and I really wish I'd seen your reaction. That the Prime Minister, and this team that is negotiating on our behalf, I caution against being insulted and not being humiliated, and that they do not write to us that July 24th in a delegation in which they were also the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Draskovic. For this assembly, Vuk Draskovic is not the foreign minister. For the Serbian Constitution, he is not the foreign minister, for Serbian citizens he is not the foreign minister. He may be the foreign minister of Vojislav Kostunica, but when you bring such a constitution that the Prime Minister determines ministers without the Parliament's consent, without voting in the assembly, then I will say he is a minister. If you in the official document that you're reporting to us, you call it a minister, and you know better than I do, you know he's not a minister, he's just talking about you, how much you're in a position to humiliate and insult the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I received an invitation from the Serbian Army, in which the defence minister invites me to a ceremony. He signed a man who's a minister of defense. Have you heard of the crime of false representation? What kind of intelligence does he have as a fake Emperor of Scepan Mali? Imagine, man's equipment to the military, in co-operation with the commander-in-chief, whose stance on Kosovo's fate has not yet been heard, and has not been elected as defence minister! It's our principled objection and we'll always bring it to you. You cover yourself however you know. The press won't ask you if he's really a minister or not, because you don't want him to direct unpleasant questions. No, the state television will present them as ministers. Then what do we need the Assembly for? Let's go back to the time Germany had. And there was one thesis and doctrine there about what any bond would be between him who rules and the people. There is no need for the National Assembly, what the National Assembly will do, bothers you to do your jobs. What is clear in this report? At all points, you hit the wall. I understand that. If you remember what we said when you were supposed to go, we told you to hit the wall. Your point is that we need to continue the talks and the negotiations are good. We'll back her up. But don't accuse those who in the papers, or in the media, or in the Assembly of asking a question -- how much further is that sustainable? So, in the area of decentralisation, to quote you, core talks have begun, but UNOSEK, realizing that this does not suit Albanians, has later potentiated the topic of new municipalities. In the area of protection of cultural and religious heritage, it is suggested that our side accepts their concept, in which there is no guarantee at all of the protection of the recovery mechanism of church property. Economic and financial and legal issues are topics whose current status in the negotiations is completely unclear. The real community, after a months of pause and our principled non-acceptance of the intended concept, is reactivated in the context of Ahtisaari's promise, in a way that puts us in a position to choose less evil: or to refuse negotiation and be accused of obstruction, or to still enter the process by not dealing with a metric discussion. A special illustration is his three-week vacation at the time he scheduled the most sessions and meetings for you. What's particularly interesting to me, and thank you for bringing this up, it's keeping a record. The local community keeps a record from its session, and UNOSEK made one record and then informed you that it is very complicated and that they cannot keep records from held sessions, meetings, because it is too complicated. The UNOSEK principle was largely to start negotiations for our side with unfavourable proposals, for which the only justification was that it was impossible for Pristina to accept certain requirements, and that Pristina would not go below that border, with a message that our side had to revise its views in order to reach a compromise. Of course, we got two slaps in the face of Marty Ahtisaari's statement that we committed a collective crime. After that, when we react to his statement, he says that we pull the sword, rattle the weapon, we want war. Now I remind you that Martti Ahtisaari is not the first to say this, that many of you have said this about this speaker in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 5 October 2000. It is the "catharza" that we need to go through, that is, that "cleaning", that is your uninterrupted statements about still disturbing the remains of Milosevic's regime, which I found in the speech of Vojislav Kostunica, who you have quoted here somewhere, in which Serbia is finally a democratic state, which will give Albanians essential autonomy. Until now, Albanians have never had the opportunity to achieve such autonomy, because Serbia was not democratic, so it did not want to offer Albanians essential autonomy, which I do not agree with, of course. Circumstances are different. Now let's see what we do. We will probably hear from the commander-in-chief here, who will say what he is willing to do if the assembly says Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia forever and ever. He will likely be assisted by a statement by the president of Russia, who made it clear -- Kosovo and Metohija will not be precedentd. So Europe collapses like a map tower, because everyone's going to want to take it. I ask you to use it in conversations with the Russian side. If the President of Russia makes it clear and loud that in the event of a precedent, Russia will veto, let's see what happens after that veto, as I ask you now, after the oath, if there is some kind of imposed solution? We won't accept it. What the next day? I can't hear the answer to that question. The Prime Minister said we are asked to agree with Kosovo's independence and that we will never accept it. I'm only interested in whether it's only the Albanians or the Negotiating Team have requests from some other countries, from some other world factors to agree with Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Let's see what capacity our rivals have. Are Albanians asking us for independence or are they asking us to do so and some where you go for political support when you need to participate in the elections, democratic elections in Serbia? I demand, as a People's MP, from the Commander-in-chief to tell us here what his statement meant that we must at no cost enter any conflict with the United States? Will this bring down our concept of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia for all time? I am also interested in the following question: if America says - or will you agree with the independence of Kosovo and Metohija or are we arguing, what attitudes will we be representing? What are we ready for? To remind you, Veton Suroi has already repeated a statement twice that there is general agreement between Albanians that Kosovo and Metohija will gain independence and that they are ready at any cost to meet the general agreement of their people. That's what you have to answer. They're attacking us with negotiations, we're defending ourselves with negotiations. When we're attacked with a weapon, tell me, how will we defend ourselves? There's a knife in your hands. The assembly will mix the cake, but you cut it off, gentlemen of the executive authority. That's why I'm asking you to always be elected by the Parliament, so that she can control you, so that she can relieve you, so that you can answer to her as representatives of the executive authority. Because we're above you, even though you don't like it, even though you don't act like it, even though we're willing to vote for your policy. If we are willing to risk everything we have to support your policy, you will answer where you will lead us. Not to be repeated speech from years ago when I also followed a policy, after which he said he reminded me of Domanovic and the leader who broke the people because he was blind. There is no more room for the blind who lead the people. You're serious people and you talk to serious people, with very concerned and very responsible people. There's no one here who doesn't want Serbia well. Tell us the limit to which Serbia is well, let us tell you -- you've gone too far, or -- you can go further, but finally, once you say something. If the government now claims that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, I am still interested in armed forces as they say, if someone attacks us with weapons, that we will defend ourselves against weapons. If we have no motive, if we have no weapons, don't even tell us that Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia forever, and don't transfer to me the story of wanting war, because I hear from you that Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia forever. You know the implications of that. I can only help you open the door you closed on October 5th, blinded by false promises. But maybe you weren't blinded, maybe you were just blinding others and blindfolding them, and you knew what it was about. The SRS parliamentary group accepts this report. I know what kind of pain you're in, and we didn't get out of it so we could criticize you. We think you're too kind to say Marty Ahtisaari, that's what you suggested. Don't get involved in the congregation business, don't suggest what we do in the constitution, it's our job, it's our decision today. We can't have a negotiation team telling us what we're going to write in the constitution. It's our job, though. Of course, the Constitutional Affairs Committee will immediately build up, cement the constitution of the province of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. So the Assembly must go at least to where the government went. The government has asked for an apology from Ahtisaari, and we here find that something unacceptable is unacceptable. That's gotta be sharp. That assembly must really be tough. Don't tell us you've been representing the interview platform everywhere, the Assembly hasn't seen that platform! So, you're acting in accordance with our resolution, in accordance with Serbia's interests, you're reporting to us, and we're going to say, you've worked or you haven't, and don't tell us about your internal rules. That's not our job. You thought we weren't worthy of seeing that platform of yours, so don't even tell us you're acting on the platform. We'll vote for this report of yours, but there's still something unsaid. It still remains unsaid - what will be the day after. Don't pretend you're not thinking about it. Think about it, because it is obvious that many are pushing for a solution to Kosovo and Metohija to be disclosed as soon as possible. This summit of non-classified people was to be used there with 45 heads of state or government to discuss the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, to go there also by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, because you told us that you were moving into a huge diplomatic offensive for Kosovo and Metohija. So where else are you going to have 130 votes there, at the Unclassified Summit, you're not going to the water polo game to spread the diplomatic initiative!? To the world. But the world isn't just across the Atlantic, the world's both east and west, both north and south. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29143	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Dusan Petrovic, president of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, respected fellow Members, this is one of the days when the Serbian Parliament, representing Serbian citizens, should speak its word on topics of which there are no harder ones today in Serbia. And not just today, but a long time ago, but first of all, from the time Serbia has literally lost its ability to manage public life in Kosovo and Metohija and from the time that we are no longer able to influence decisively what has been happening in our southern province, in our 15% territory since 1999. In politics, the most frightening thing is not to be realistic, because the unrealisticity of politicians and the inability of those who govern the state to face real life does not usually lead to the highest price paid by those who did not face real life, but is paid by citizens and people who are in certain historical times in trouble to live in countries that are run by politicians who are unable to see reality. That's why we have to be determined and realistic, because it's the only thing that can protect the interests of citizens, the interests of the state and the interests of the church. In this order, I'd say a few sentences about each of these topics. The biggest concern of this House and the states must be those who are the most endangered. The most endangered people who had to leave their houses in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999 and are now found to know and know, with more or less help from the state, in central Serbia. After them, those who had the strength, the courage, the will, the desire to stay and live in Kosovo and Metohija, and their interests, these congregations and Serbia must keep the greatest possible care in mind and that, by thinking and deciding what will happen to our country and what will happen to Kosovo and Metohija, they bear in mind each of these people and each of these families. That is why it is vitally important that the process of decentralisation and therefore the DS fully supports everything the Negotiating Team has done in the process of decentralisation, because it is not possible to keep our people in Kosovo and Metohija and create conditions for those who are displaced to return to Kosovo and Metohija to return to their homes, to start their lives and the lives of their families to do better than they are now, unless they have essential security guarantees. The right to life, the right to physical integrity, the right to freedom of movement, under the deep conviction of DS, can only be achieved if local self-governments, in which Serbs and other non-Albanians are the majority, are given institutional opportunities to protect elemental rights. For this reason, we support the negotiation team's request to ensure local self-government the right to establish their own police, to ensure the right to organise judicial authority, but also to ensure the right to organise health care, because we must have our hospitals there, to provide a sustainable education system, because children have to go to schools, to ensure a sustainable system of social protection and protection of our cultural heritage. That is why it is vital that we fight wisely and resolutely for what is the legitimate and inalienable right of every man on this planet, especially the people who live on our continent, and for that we have arguments. I am sure that our strong fight, and here we support the negotiating team, cannot be left without results in an effort to ensure sustainable local self-government for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and achieve. Of course, this report says a lot. As a prerequisite, it is also necessary to ensure the sustainability of funding for local self-government, their ability and their original right to provide material and financial resources to ensure what their functions are and what their functions can be achieved in real life. So, these Serbian citizens I was talking about, who were in the accident in 99th year displaced from Kosovo and those in Kosovo and Metohija remained the first concerns of the state of Serbia. But also, I want to say at this point, all Serbian citizens are the subject and subject of which this assembly and Serbia must take care of. The faith of the people who live in this country in democracy, the ability of our nation to maintain their democratic capacity, represents the essential strength and value that we and in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija must achieve. On this, first of all, we must take care, because it is about our lives, but I also appeal to all the actors of the international community that, deciding on Kosovo and Metohija, they are taking care of Serbia's democratic capacity. Neither has a good life for all of us and our children, nor has the stability of this region, unless Serbia remains a democratic country, capable of fighting and preserving what is the basis of civilized life, which is democracy. It is not disputed between us, I am sure, that the fundamental state value, which Serbia is fighting for and for which the Negotiating Team is fighting for, represents the preservation of our territory, our territorial integrity and the sovereign authority of our country. For this reason, the Democratic Party will support that through a constitutional solution this, I am sure, indisputable political will exists between our citizens and our country. I don't think it's worth spending anything on. The Democratic Party is very committed, with arguments, with the best will and intent to participate in the process of adopting a new constitution and I hope that this job, which is neither easy nor simple, can be completed in the shortest possible time and that we will be able to bring to the shortest possible time before the citizens of Serbia the text that will once again be able to win the majority support of citizens and to resolve between many other issues the state has for Kosovo and Metohija. I would also like to say that these negotiations address the issue of survival and extension not only of the rights of our citizens to freedom of religion in Kosovo and Metohija, so the rights of people who are Christian faith to confess their faith, to do so in their churches which, in addition to being religious objects, represent the foundations of our spiritual heritage, are also about the fact that Christian civilization is struggling to survive in Kosovo and Metohija. It is one of the very important arguments that we have, that at the beginning of the 21st century, in Europe, we have the right to protect also our citizens' right to freedom of religion and the right to survive Christian civilization in Kosovo and Metohija. I therefore appeal to all those who in Serbia decide, and to this Parliament, to the executive power, to take great care of all the solutions that the state of Serbia will make in the near future, concerning freedom of religion, that it is bad for our state interests to have at any point constitutional or legal solutions that do not guarantee full capacity for freedom of religion, because it is our weapons both in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about what's going to happen the day after, I want to say that we live in time after. The day was 99th, when the foreign army entered Kosovo and Metohija and the state of Serbia was no longer able to exercise civilian authority in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why there's no day after, because we live in years after, and those who now, in historical order and opportunity, have the burden of having to decide what's going to happen about this issue, are in this trouble of dealing with the consequences of the policy that led us to the situation that, in fact, we don't have control over our province. It's not the subject of this assembly, and I don't want to talk about it. Let's argue about it for 15 or 16 years, sometimes from the government, sometimes from the opposition, but this is the time when we fight to have a real view of the life we're in, when we're fighting for it to do what we do. It's not a secret, and you all know that, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that there are very powerful political centres on this planet that believe that Kosovo and Metohija should gain independence. But it is not disputed that Serbia will also fight with all the political means at its disposal and that no matter what anyone thinks about it, it will invest all of its diplomatic capacity to convince those who decide, and will decide, above all, the permanent members of the Security Council and the countries that are in the Contact Group, that it is in their best interests to take care of Serbia's state interest and to help Serbia preserve its territorial integrity and state sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29145	The word comes from MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29146	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have one of the most important state issues for Serbia today. I'll talk about five things. First, on the need for a unified stance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, secondly on the issue of decentralisation, thirdly on the need for special status of monasteries and churches, fourthly on the historic agreement between Serbs and Albanians and the fifth, on the adoption of a new constitution and support for Kosovo and Metohija to be found in the future constitution as an integral and inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia. In preparation for the very session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it could be heard that the most important result of this session was to demonstrate once more clearly a single position in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you that we have a State Negotiating Team that performs in a completely unique way in negotiations, that we have a unique position of government, Prime Minister and President of the Republic. The need has turned out, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has repeatedly shown unity in terms of such an important state issue, that once again at these moments we show not only the domestic, but also the international public that we are firmly standing in a unique position on such an important issue for us. What is important to point out, before I move on to the other four questions, is that when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, the crisis and the problems so deep and historicly far away that they can't only talk about 2004, or just the 99th year, even though it's painful and difficult for us, or about 81 years ago or 60 years ago. So I'm going to give a historical example. As of May 14, 1898, handed by Stojan Novakovic, Turkish Foreign Minister Tefik Pashi, Turkish Foreign Minister, said among other things: "In a short time since several months, the Arbanas committed more than 400 crimes, such as murders, arson, robbery, devastation of temples, rape, kidnapping, robbery of houses," etc. It lists the number of murders, robbed and destroyed monasteries, etc., with one sharp note of performance. It was only after a month that Tefik Pasha called him and said he had received a note, but that on the issue, the imperial authorities had not yet taken action. We're in the same reality after 100 years. For example, certain factors from the international community have not yet done anything about certain things that have happened recently. So the essence of the problem is too deep to have a lightly and quickly imposed solution. Why did I tell you this? Because when we talk about the pathways of the solution, I get the impression, and I hope I share the impression with you that the State's negotiating team is trying to track the solution down the best way. When I say to the best, I point out here as the first and most important issue of decentralisation. And why the issue of decentralisation? Because right now, our country, however historically we observe what is guilty and what has happened, has no authority from the competent state authorities in most of the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. There is no good part of the authority, those that are important for Serbs and the status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, or in the territory where Serbs live. So it's a matter of security. The report accurately describes the jurisdiction of the decentralisationd municipality and what we mean by that. I'm only aware of two things, because they're listed competences, and they actually mean normal life and safety. Normal life, that's all the ingenuity that concerns normal human functioning, and security means that local police and courts provide a prerequisite for people to move, work, sell each other, trade, etc. That's why decentralisation is essential. When the other side, therefore, the Albanians, saw that we had worked out all the mechanisms in that field and made an incredible breakthrough, with a proposal that simply could not be rejected and who could not be objected to or found essential regrets, they were trying to bring the matter back, at first, by saying, sorry, all municipalities should have such information. That is simply not true, because the basic question is: what is the status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. What is also fatefully important to us is the special status of monasteries and churches. It is not necessary to explain to Serbia, in a spiritual sense, that Kosovo and Metohija represent the essence of the Serbian people. The proposal that monasteries and churches be particularly protected zones and for people who remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija, which are Serbs, means the gathering sites, means the very essence that they can stay there. If we don't have it, it's not just the people who live in Kosovo and Metohija, it's an attempt to suppress both history and existence in the spiritual sense of the Serb people in general. I think it's very clear that these enclaves, these places, churches and monasteries, along with their surroundings, represent places where people gather. When we say a historic agreement between Serbs and Albanians, we often talk about multiethnic society, trying to live together and different efforts are made in that direction. But we have to face facts, things and problems that are deeply rooted in the past, and we have to understand that it's hard to make a multiethnic society if we're talking about a note from a hundred and a few years ago, that the same problems that are pervading are only being strengthened to a lesser or greater extent over certain periods. Let's make a mechanism, through the story of decentralisation of essential co-existence, and that means, if an institution cannot be created that means that both participate in it by force, let each other, in decentralised municipalities, live in a normal way, and that each of their environments normally regulates, and that what imposes on themselves life, therefore trade, mutual things that connect people, that this economy makes a breakthrough in the integration of these decentralised municipalities, not only between themselves, but also with Serbia. If we can't make a fundamental multiethnic society, if there's no will on the other side, and there's only one thing that's always trying to be done is one thing, independence, which we don't accept, let's encourage the Negotiating Team to continue this way to present our arguments, because the truth is on our side. We can essentially create a mechanism for people to live next to each other in decentralised municipalities, and only time and life bring new qualities. What is also important, and it is also in the motion for a decision that we are going to vote today, is point 2 - that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia concludes that the work on a new constitution of Serbia should be completed as soon as possible. This is indeed a new encouragement for two things: it is that we will bring the constitution as soon as possible and that we are slowly moving towards agreement on what is becoming visible to the public; and secondly, that the constitution, as an integral part of Serbia, will be both Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29147	The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29148	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, of course the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is very important, seems crucial to all political parties in Serbia. Of course, this session is not a place where we would compete with each other and argue about a topic that at this point does not associate with some positive development. Also, I don't think we should be dealing with side issues. It's a good thing the controversial people, who are supposed to be here today, aren't here today, are on their way today, so we don't turn it into the central theme of today's session. Otherwise, as you know, the SPS believes the ministers should be elected to parliament. Our views on the team are very clear about this. I think the side issues are left with this one. Let's not deal with issues of Serb municipalities, churches, security zones and anything else. If Kosovo is independent, few Serbs will remain living in Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's absolutely inappropriate to deal with these issues. We should deal with the issue of political essence - whether we can preserve Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia's composition or in any connection with Serbia or not. To all who speak here today as some epochal discoveries of what form of decentralisation we will have, or the right to religion in Kosovo and Metohija, it should be clear that if independence of Kosovo and Metohija, of the 100-200 thousand Serbs below, will remain only the oldest, who want to die where they are born. It's our political and social reality, and we need to keep that in mind. The SPS supports this report. We believe that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, we agree with the need to adopt a new constitution, in which it would once again be written that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, we agree that negotiations can and should be conducted only on the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, we agree that there is no imposition of a solution without the consent of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, we condemn the statement of Ahtisaari. But we need to be politically realistic. We are facing a very difficult period, when they will try to impose a final solution, i.e. very quickly, a period where all resources will try to impose Kosovo and Metohija independence. It is not easy to take Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia today. I'm sure he has no Serbian hands, no matter what we think of each other, who will sign Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I hope it is the wish of all of us that this is the unique position of all Serbian politicians in this country and in our people. However, I would like to express a few sentences that, without challenging the polemics, would suggest that we should take care of our public appearances, so as not to order our opponents in international relations and be open to our enemies. For example, today we criticise Ahtisaari for his statement of the Serbian people's guilt. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, presidents, ministers, vice-presidents of the government, how many of you have been in statements, and some who are not in this room, such attitudes that may have gone in that direction? How many ugly words did we say about each other, and therefore about our people, for these 10-15 years? Didn't we ourselves talk about Kosovo and Metohija's problem as a democratic issue? Did the Nis Assembly, at the time of the country's greatest sanctions and bombing, decide that Kosovo is a democratic and a question of human rights shortages, not separatism and terrorism? If Kosovo and Metohija are a matter of democracy, and you say democracy came after October 5th, what's the problem now? What's the problem with relations with Montenegro? How many of our politicians and MPs have said that Serbs committed crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. Why do you expect Ahtisaari to speak better of our people than we do of ourselves? Condemn Ahtisaari, but think about your own statements all these years. Of course, all crimes in Kosovo and Metohija and everywhere should be condemned. Every single person who did this should respond, but Serbia has never performed systematic ethnic cleansing and genocide in Kosovo and Metohija. If that were the case, would there be only so many Serbs today, would there be only so many Serbs in Croatia today, would Republika Srpska be in some way threatened? Serbs are the biggest victims of ethnic cleansing in the area of the previous Yugoslavia. So today, when we talk about the previous political power, let us no longer hate that authority than we love our people and our country. All of you know well and pray to God that some of our men in The Hague are not convicted of what they are accused of, because we will have to pay great war damage. I am glad that today Serbia's state policy is not much different from state policy at the time we were in power, because it is not possible. It's not possible to run a different policy. You know what you're different about? You are not in a position to order the use of the armed forces because they are not in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask you all here - if there was a separatist rebellion in southern Serbia, what would you do? Would you say the problem is democracy or would you order the gendarmes and the military to react? What is this policy based on? Is it based on the basic attitudes we've been making here? It's easy to say, "It's all the previous government's fault." Slobodan Milosevic and SPS in 1990 could say that it was all the fault of Josip Broz Tito, it was all the fault of the 1974 Constitution, for all the communist borders of 1945. It's all Karadjordjevic's fault, because they created Yugoslavia and did not create Serbia with restricted territory. It's all Karadjordjevic's fault, because they were the godfathers of every nine Albanian child. It's all because of some of the previous ones who haven't realized your plan. It's all Emperor Lazar's fault he lost the Kosovo fight! It is easy to talk about who performed a political function, but don't you realize that in Kosovo there is no problem with political authority in Serbia. In Kosovo and Metohija, the problem is separatism and terrorism. Did you write here that they won't negotiate anything else? What would they negotiate? They want independence from Kosovo and Metohija. They're unique in that. Are we unique in not giving it away? I'm not saying we can defend it, but are we unique in not giving it? Today we hesitate to say clearly what we want. I'm not saying that Serbia should cause wars, I'm not saying that Serbia is able to win those wars that are stronger than it is. But statements such as that that Serbia will not war for Kosovo and Metohija, a statement, Mr. President of the Republic, that, above all, good relations with America and that our national priority is to join NATO, although I don't know who decided about it, I haven't heard that someone has made a decision that our priority is to join NATO, which is decided at the referendum and according to NATO rules. If the people decide by a referendum to join NATO, we will support it, but until then you have no right to speak for the whole nation something that this people did not decide. If you say Republika Srpska will not go to a referendum on Serbia's accession, if the entire international community says -- we have to give the Albanians independence because we fear their reaction, we fear they will react if we don't give them independence; they will mobilize 10, 20, 30, or 40,000 people in two days. So why doesn't someone say they're afraid of Serbia's reaction? And what reactions he fears when we say in advance that we will not fight for Kosovo and Metohija. We must clearly say that for Kosovo and Metohija we will fight with all means, so by all means, I repeat, because why would we tell someone in advance that we will not fight for something. If you tell someone you're not going to fight, you're just going to sulk at it for a while, why don't someone bring and impose a solution to Kosovo and Metohija's independence? We need to have a united view of these issues. Without it, Serbia will be unable to do anything on the international agenda. All I'm saying is I'm not saying it as a criticism of anyone, but it's a well-intentioned desire that in negotiations, or in this farce of negotiations, which are the same as those that were in Rambouje and somewhere long before, we have a clear tactics, so that we don't get to know in advance what the results of these negotiations will be. Otherwise, you know very well that there is no "P" here from the negotiations. What are you negotiating there, when there's nothing you can agree on? What can Serbs and Albanians agree on in Kosovo and Metohija? You know what will come next now, and if you don't know, ask those who were in Rambouille. Someone will write a final proposal, which you have to agree with, accept, or do not accept. If you do not accept it, Serbia will be exposed to great pressures. How will you stand before our people and our country? You'll say – okay, we couldn't do it anymore, it's all the previous government's fault. You can say that for the first few days. When you came to power on October 5, 2000, it seems to me that you spoke a completely different language. You said the new Serbia, a democratic Serbia, would have open support for the international community. You do not realize that it is not political power in Serbia, but geostrategics in this area. You expect Russia to veto. And why would Russia and China veto and help Serbia when Serbia talks against Russia and China for six years? You made fun of someone talking about Russia and China. For you China has less importance than Luxembourg in Europe, and now you remember Russia and China when you need help, to veto. What did Miroljub Labus say about China? Did he say he did not accept the return of the loan that Milosevic's authority took? The right to be spoken of in this way is one great force which we now pray for to veto. Why? Now, after 2004, you suddenly all remembered and visited both China and Russia. You realize there's no balanced foreign policy without it. I think it's a good thing that finally the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, in talks with Putin, came to that knowledge and made it clear to Putin, it seems to me that Russia has opened the door in Serbia. If you're saying that the Russian companies can't invest in the economy, that the Russian banks can't buy our banks, so they can't buy the Russian firms, and they can't invest in the Seishel, Cayman and other islands? We now expect Russia to fight with America, England and others over Serbia. Yes, but in foreign policy, I guess you learned that from your mentors in the United States and England, there are no permanent friends and permanent enemies. There are only constant interests in foreign policy. If Russia has an interest in this part of the world, and even if it has it so that the precedent doesn't hit her over the head, it will help. But if you're driving Russia out of this place and you're laughing at her, and you're driving China out of this space and you're laughing at the role of China, I don't know who's gonna side with us. Don't realize that, when I say this, I am convinced that Serbia's path to Eastern integration. On the contrary, Serbia's path is towards European integration. We are in favour of joining the EU, but this does not mean that we should not have a balanced foreign policy, and especially does not mean that we should have a negative relationship with big countries in the world. I just want one more sentence to say about the constitution. There is a great danger that in the campaign for the adoption of a new constitution, the constitution will not be passed. Do you have in mind such an opportunity that simply some parties disagree on the adoption of a new constitution? And then what are we going to tell the international community: that Kosovo is not part of Serbia? That's why the approach you have is good, but it's not complete. Kosovo and Metohija are also elected under the current Constitution – by which you, the President of the Republic, are elected, by which you, the Prime Minister and the Ministers, are elected, and by which all of you, fellow Members, rule, and do not mind you rule – an integral part of Serbia. Why would we mind saying that in the existing constitution of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia? What does that mean now? If by any chance a new constitution is not passed, then Kosovo is not part of Serbia? The new constitution, we in the SPS, see only as another possibility that now that Serbia is no longer part of a wider state community, once again we confirm in this time that Kosovo and Metohija are still an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and we will continue to see that, regardless of all legal and political coincidences and the consequences of possible imposition of a solution to the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. Pay attention, don't talk about Vojvodina and the new constitution as essential autonomy, because they are different questions. I have to tell you, you may disagree, but it's easy for me to talk about this, I've been in politics since I was 89, you know how many we've had a constitutional campaign, both for Kosovo and for a referendum? Then don't talk about running different national and national policies. This time it's a constitutional campaign, a campaign for Kosovo and Metohija, if I understand your intensity well. In the end, the BiH Prime Minister, or I don't know what function he served in BiH, received Naser Oric when he returned from The Hague. Dudakovic is still at large, and you are chasing Mladic. Karadzic remains at large, and I think he is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's responsible for that? Let's not stick thorns in our own legs all the time. Ratko Mladic has been here all these years when you were in power. He was moving freely, as I understand it, until 2002, 2003. Why didn't you catch him if he was so important to you? You could have caught him at the market, in a bar or at a football game, since he was sitting in the shed. Now you remember it's so inevitable. You thought you and Milosevic would close everything. Now what? Mladic will endanger the Kosovo and Metohija issue. He won't. Don't hesitate to say that. I know, we care about good relationships with great powers. But, Mr. President of the Republic, your finding that our priority is good relations with America is correct. That's right. But if we say so, and they say at the same time that they are in favour of some kind of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, then this results in a clear conclusion that we were just saying, that even though they will support Kosovo's independence, even though they may support the autonomy or core autonomy of Vojvodina, even though they will support the abolition of Republika Srpska, we will continue to have good relations with America as a priority. Will we have good relations with those states that will recognise Kosovo's independence? (President: Mr. Dacic, time. Well, I think I've asked a rhetorical question, which I don't need anyone to answer. Those countries that work against Serbia's interest do not deserve to have good relations with them. With countries today pushing for Kosovo's independence, diplomatic relations should be interrupted. You must not receive foreign ministers who advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence, such as the Swiss minister, let alone be proud and photographed with them. I hope no one will take this as any malicious criticism. Serbia needs to be unique about access to Kosovo and Metohija. He hasn't since yesterday, not from this authority, not from the previous, not from the past, since when Kosovo and Metohija exist, there has been a problem of separatism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. If we don't figure it out, Kosovo will lose. If we are not unique, Kosovo will lose easier. If we're unique, maybe we'll defend him with a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29149	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups DSS, DS, SRS, SPS. I give my word to Branislav Stevanovic, who, under Article 93 of Article 3, has five minutes. Here you go. Let the Messenger of the People be prepared, Zvonimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29150	Ladies and gentlemen, the difficult situation between the Serbs and the non-Albanian population in Kosovo is quite speaking and should only point out that they are fighting for basic civil rights, freedom of movement, the right to work and the other fundamental rights that every citizen on this planet belongs to. We need to learn lessons, because we've been oppressed for centuries and this process has been going on for almost a century. Based on all the current developments in these areas, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, lessons should be learned, and the reasons why these developments and persecutions of Serbian living from Kosovo and Metohija should also be sought. It should be noted that the accelerated process has been going on since 1941, when entire families from Albania moved to Kosovo and Metohija. The process is being carried out systematically. It should also be noted that a large number of Serbian families have been forced to sell their country, total property and leave Kosovo and their hearth, which means that all previous governments are to blame for not finding the right strategy and the right way to prevent it all. Also, the unemployment in Kosovo is one of the factors that has affected a large number of Serbs leaving their hearth. The most important fact in all of this is that history is harshly speaking against us, which is that virtually all European peoples have recorded a rise in their population, but unfortunately we have reduced by 10% the total number of Serbs, not only in Kosovo, but in Europe at all. A harsh fact should be pointed out that Albanians are a total of 700% more than they were 100 years ago. What does that mean? It means that we need to make a national strategy and bring in many laws that are related to the protection of the population and the families themselves, which means a strategic fight against the white plague. Also, it should highlight the threat of southern Serbia, of course, with everything I've said, and great unemployment, etc. It is necessary to invest in the economy, especially in agriculture and all those branches that are south of Serbia, because, gentlemen, we are threatened with the risk that systematically, as so far as they have inhabited Cosmet, these Albanians will win, not by weapons, but by their families having seven children on average, and our, Serb family, only one child. In this way, if we don't have a population, if we don't invest in the economy, if we don't keep especially young people, we stimulate them by hiring these same young people and keeping them living in their hearth. So, the task of the current government and the future government is exactly a strategy, primarily, and the fight against the white plague, so that we can survive and remain as a people in these areas. Besides, we've been deluding ourselves for a long time with some fake friends in the world. Gentlemen, while we are thinking about some friends of the century, during that time the Croats, Albanians and everyone else have managed the way it is already going in the modern world, lobbying, etc., not to say openly - by buying friendship. Therefore, we know in what circumstances all and what pressures they face from all over the world, there is a great, serious task ahead. I certainly support the Negotiating Team and the President of the Republic in their performances so far. We need to show great style, great patriotism, all of us, and that there is no moment in which politics is present, that we are not drawn to any party points, but that we take this problem seriously, and we are composing in all of this. Also, as I said, we need to start thinking the way many people in these places have thought and solved their basic state problems. And our negotiating team, and the Prime Minister, and the President of the Republic need to work very seriously on this. Let the future government and this one, depending on how long its mandate lasts, think about the law on restoring the population and national strategy, as I said, especially when it comes to the white plague and the number of Serbs in these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29151	The word is given by the MP of the people, Zvonimir Stević, and let the MP of the people, Vuko Antonijevic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, speak today about the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija regarding the report on the current negotiating process with the Albanian side means at the same time pointing to all the circumstances and troubles possessed by citizens of Serbian nationality and members of all non-Albanian communities, but it is only one dimension of the uncertain Kosovo crowd. The second, which is today the direct cause of this debate in parliament, is the uncertainty of the outcome of the negotiations on the future status led by the Serbian and Albanian sides in Vienna and in which we can say freely, each side remains in place, for now, very opposed. To say that immediately, for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and displaced persons from Cosmet, it is extremely unacceptable to any kind of independence for Cosmet, whether it is conditional, armed for a certain period, to meet standards, or another. We simply cannot agree to live in an Albanian state, where we will represent a national minority, with an extremely uncertain outcome in the sphere of security, but also in terms of the achievement of human and civil rights. Before that, the shortest about what is now the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. It is very sharp and it can certainly be said that since the March Serbian pogrom in 2004 it has not been more difficult. To illustrate, to begin with the last bombing recently carried out in the cafe "Dolce Vita" in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, in which nine innocent citizens were injured, then the recent stoning of a student bus in the village of Žabara near Mitrovica, where students returned from the sea to Sirinić Žup, through the daily theft and burglary of houses in settlements bordering Albanian communities, to the day-to-day attack on Serbs, such as in Prilužje, the young man Ljubis Janaković, or in the centre of Decan, when Vuko Danilovic, who took part in the action "Multiethnic Camp" in the international organisation of the OSCE, was beaten with a group of five children. In a list like this, I'd go too far, because it's a few thousand men's attacks, several hundred drastic Serb murders. However, perpetrators of crime have not only not been discovered, but I often hear from representatives of international forces, their administrations and temporary Kosovo institutions that crimes are not ethnically motivated. On the other hand, top international officials, including UNMIK heads, share in the world's capitals a lesson that it is time for Serbia to look ahead and start social and economic reforms, and give a prescription that it is necessary to resolve Kosovo's status by the end of the year, so that the whole region can move forward. Therefore, Serbs from Cosmeta rightly wonder -- who killed Dragan Popovic, one of the most prominent Serbs in Klina, who returned after six years, who only the day after that murder defiled the church "Obilic", where the Serbs were almost completely expelled, what preceded the demoralisation of the Church of "Holy Apostolic Andrej" in Podujevo, will anyone also give an answer to the question of how to take place from day to day serious incidents, in which Serbs, their property and Serbian estates are hit. How to encourage Serbs in Old Grack, if, in addition to all the tragic events and known terrorist pirates, the dead are again harassed, there is a defiled cemetery there this summer. How can people come back if they are welcomed with stones by hostile Albanians. On the other hand, our government and its ministries and, in particular, the Coordination Centre must be more operational, more determined and more systematically concerned about the fate of 120,000 Serbs living in Cosmet, but also displaced persons, who are twice as many and living in difficult conditions, scattered across Serbia and Montenegro. Our demands that greater concern be given to the fate of Serbs who remained in Kosovo and Metohija, now, during the negotiation process, are even more severe, although it should be said that certain steps have been taken. About 27,000 former Kosovo companies workers, who have been out of work since June 1999 due to persecution from their environments, are now receiving compensation, although minimal and non-compliant with the law. The same is true of about 7,000 employees of the Elektroprivreda, as well as workers who worked in local self-government. It has been announced that this year the construction of 580 return houses for Kosovo and Metohija is planned, and the largest urban return is planned for the East, where 75 houses would be built. Of course, all of this, on the condition that these individuals are secured back, which these days the terms and protocols are agreed upon. All these movements are in line with the Serbian government, which through the Coordination Centre should intensify many other activities, because while negotiations in Vienna are under way, as if many are turning to them more than the concrete lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why Serbs who live in Kosovo and Metohija insist on asking the government for additional measures for a more sustainable life in the province, but also for persons who are displaced and located in collective centres and other temporary destinations in Serbia. I also have to make an impression about the negotiations in Vienna, which, through international officials' statements, increasingly aggressively declares Serbian guilt as a people for war in the former Yugoslavia. How is it that Serbs, as a people, are guilty of the situation in Kosovo and that in the past seven years they have been tragically injured in that same Kosovo? Why is the price of the alleged guilt required? It's all done with a recognizable scenario. Overtiru was created by a member of the European Parliament, Doris Pack, to continue the deputy envoy of the United Nations for resolving the Kosovo issue, Albert Roan, who came all the way to World War I, for which he again blamed Serbs. In addition, the gathering on Serbs as on-call culprits for all the evils on the planet from The Hague and the tribunal's prosecution, through numerous international meetings and statements by the leaders of the Crisis Group, to numerous interviews by some diplomats from the West and the United States, which pave the way for an independent Kosovo. Serbs from Cosmeta and Kosovo events are increasingly identifying the Rambouje scenario, where the Serbian side was expected to refuse offered to take the stage with devastating bombs. For our negotiating team, I hope, that's a recognizable message. The announcements of our diplomatic offensive are justified now that Kosovo and Metohija are being discussed. Intensive diplomatic activity is welcomed by all those who have good intentions, because we present our arguments to the world, and they are based on the general principles of international law. In this regard, we should welcome the initiative of our work of the Negotiating Team, which has recently been articulated by its members in talks with international mediators, because there has been no systematic and coordinated action by our state-of-the-art and our diplomacy in order to present to the international public our argument on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I welcome our current reaction to Ahtisaari's statement on the collective guilt of Serbs, which shows our unity. I believe that, on many occasions over the past years, we have kept quiet the statements and moves of former UNMIK chiefs and numerous mediators from the world, who have been mixing and doing things for the benefit of Albanians in our eyes, and to the detriment of Serbs when it comes to Cosmet. There's a shift on the home plan. I think, above all, of the new functioning of the Serbian government regarding the proposal for a national investment plan, which more realistically looks at the needs of education, health, infrastructure solutions, housing and return and integration of displaced people. The promised 31m-euro financial infusion would bring additional hope to Serbs in Cosmet and those who intend to return to Cosmet. I think that measures should be well met and criteria defined in order to really focus these funds on the environments that are most needed, and not, as has been the case so far, that those who have better conditions, by investing, are further motivated, and that poverty remains on the side. Someone will say it's a social program, but I think that element should be considered. The SPS believes it is necessary to build criteria for the survival and existence of the most endangered categories of Serbian citizens. The focus of overall attention on the course of the negotiation process, particularly from the representatives of the Coordination Centre, is rather dissuading from the ongoing life problems. Serbs from Cosmeta resent that almost nothing has been done on the first shoot, although these days it is working on making a social map. When it comes to concrete moves by the Serbian government, it is good to intervene with 6m euros. This will be aimed at developing small and medium-sized enterprises and will speed up the employment of people in Kosovo and Metohija. The example works, only in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija annually, between 300 and 400 students graduate from high school. So it's been seven years, we already have one army from 2,800 to 3,000 high school students. Also, one number ends in college, but there's no job, and I expect these projects and investments to create new jobs. I'm saying all this because we have to build a general consensus and have a firm stance in the negotiation process, but also in all our institutions when it comes to Cosmet. The Socialist Party believes that what the government and this assembly must strictly take note of: it must constantly point to a poor state of security, a lack of freedom of movement and a poor economic position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija; therefore, take steps and find initiatives to protect the Serbs in Cosmet; uniquely, on all occasions, it indicates that the imposed solution to Kosovo and Metohija cannot be accepted; it never accepts independence, but neither the blurred nor the highly undefined proposals that hint at the slides of the new resolution on Cosmet. That is why the new farce is a proposal for some document, which allegedly would not mention the status of the southern Serbian province, but not sovereignty over the province. It is only a space for later installing the Albanian state on Serbian territory, which would begin to recognise the countries individually. Instead, the key is in our firm push for the existing Resolution 1244, strengthening the economic position and creating conditions for a sustainable return to the co-ordinated measures of the Serbian government, but also the constant pressure on the international community to have this in mind and on its part contributes to addressing infrastructure problems in the endangered Serbian environments, education, health, protection of Orthodox saints and other directions. Only in this way can Serbs in Kosovo feel safer and understand that they are protected and are assisted by their own government, the Assembly and all state institutions, which is their basic duty and obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29153	The word has the People's MP Vuko Antonijevic, and let the MP Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29154	The esteemed chairman, honourable presidents, members of the government and the state negotiating team, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has been more than seven years since KFOR troops and one part of the international community stepped into Kosovo and Metohija. It is the period in which Serbs experienced the greatest exodus in their history of existence in the area. More than 200,000 displaced Serbs and 50,000 more displaced non-Albanians, 176 destroyed churches, 30,000 burned homes with the disappearance of Serbs and 797 settlements, the balance is the work of the international community, peace in Kosovo and Metohija. Throughout all this time, there was an idea that slowly but certainly realized, which is the fewer Serbs, the easier it is to make an independent Albanian state. At the beginning of the UN mission, we had a dilemma that 50,000 KFOR troops and 10,000 UN police officers could not protect Serbs, as if the world's largest military force were unable to secure order and peace, and then it became clear in time that they did not want to, in practice, be conducted so-called. The allowed exodus, in which 1,500 were killed and 1,600 Serbs disappeared, as it is clear to all that every Serb in the space of Cosmeta is yet another major opponent of the Albanian state in the Balkans. That's why even people over 80 were killed, who can't bother anyone biologically. The return of Serbs, in practice, does not exist, which is logical because of the present fascist idea of building an independent state, which is being carried out by Albanians, and logistics is being given by the international community, because, as many Albanians say, why should we now return them once we have expelled them? The return authority was originally in the hands of UNMIK and the UNHCR, and eventually the Ministry of Return to the Kosovo government. The return was handed over to those who were persecuting Serbs, on the principle that the rabbit was guarding the cabbage. The situation in Kosovo today resembles a gathering camp, without freedom of movement, without the right to work, without the right to live. Except in northern Kosovo, the situation in other parts of Kosovo and Metohija, so-called The enclaves, as foreigners baptised the towns where Serbs live, do not differ from the modern camp in many villages. Serbia's call to reportedly reintegrate is aimed at meeting one of the declared standards in order to obtain an independent state, rather than being a sincere desire for the participation of Serbs in the southern Serbian political life. The biggest resistance to the creation of an independent Albanian state comes from northern Kosovo and Metohija, and that is why more than 500 UNMIK police officers and 2,000 KFOR soldiers have come here recently, with the earlier presence of 3,000 KFOR troops. All of them are located not on the line of separation between Serbs and Albanians, but in the depth of Serbia's space, so it turns out that the number of NATO troops is much higher in northern Kosovo than in Iraq and Afghanistan. An attempt by the SPC to rebuild the collapsed Serb sanctity with the Ministry of Culture of Kosovo's government has failed. At the top of Albania's political scene, Kosovo's international community is pushing for those Albanians we rightly suspect were committing crimes against Serbs, i.e. that they bloodied their hands. First of all, Ramush Haradinaj, Agim Ceku, Hashim Thaci and Fatmir Ljamaj are reportedly being brought to prominent positions because, according to some Western strategists, they need Albanian masses to hold still, not those who received the mandate by Resolution 1244, primarily NATO troops. A good part of them is also present at negotiations in Vienna, which, above all, aims to provoke a Serbian negotiating team to give up negotiations. In such a difficult situation as the Serb community, I cannot help but add some media and numerous NGOs, as well as minor political parties, who consciously propagate and lobby the idea of an independent Kosovo, only making life worse for Serbs and promoting their further migration from Kosovo and Metohija. We Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija absolutely support the Serbian negotiating team, the present unity in it. We are not in favour of the division of Kosovo and Metohija, because why should we share something that is ours. We expect it to be loud and clear, as quickly as possible through Serbia's new constitution, to confirm that Cosmet is part of Serbia's state. It is not enough for us to say that we are not going to sign Kosovo's independence, but rather not to say that we are really going to fight by all means not to rob us of 15% of the state's territory. Let the EU and the United States choose whether they want Serbia as a partner or an independent Kosovo. It's absurd that they can get both. We Serbs from the space of Cosmeta are for Euro-Atlantic integration, but not according to the system of territory for development and integration. We prefer other integrations, but with Kosovo in Serbia, rather than Euro-Atlantic without Kosovo. We must make that clear and loud to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29155	The People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, has the word, and let the People's MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that in the National Assembly we have managed to reach a consensus only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and always our debates in the National Assembly have had interference with the transfer of responsibility to another political party for the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I guess, when they don't know what else to say, the authorities always find blame and responsibility in some of them who previously performed state functions. I guess it's the easiest thing to do, so whatever happens, it's not our fault, it's Milosevic's fault, it's the radicals, it's the guilty one who knows who, only they're not responsible, because they're the smartest and the best on the globe. In this report, which we received as MPs, we were able to put together ourselves in line with what we received as a media report, recognising the will of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija exclusively for independence and the exclusive will of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia to accept everything other than independence. All talks, and decentralisation, on our cultural heritage, tradition, and everything else, concern always the basic issue, whether Kosovo and Metohija will gain independence, on the Albanian side, or whether Kosovo and Metohija will remain part of Serbia, which is a question that all Serbs and all Serbian citizens ask, regardless of their nationality or religion. Now, when we have come to this, and a solution is announced by the end of the year or by the spring of 2007, a question arises – what is ours to do, what is what we can do and what is what we can do, and to prevent the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. It's our place to say that it's unacceptable, that it's against international legal norms, which is absolutely true. It is our job to make it clear to anyone who would blackmail Serbia and make a market by saying, now you are entering the EU, and Kosovo is entering the EU as an independent state, so you will have good relations with each other, a personal card is enough to visit Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, so you Serbian citizens accept that it is unacceptable. Just wait a moment when this as a final offer will appear on the EU menu or negotiator on Kosovo and Metohija. It is ours to tell them today that it is absolutely unacceptable for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, because we will not, we cannot and will never agree to give up the work of our territory. Let them give up and the works of Switzerland, let Lozana go into one, let Belincon go to another, and Basel go to the third country if he will, since the Swiss Foreign Minister here has told us nicely that she advocates Kosovo's independence, let her country dissipate, but cannot dissipate our country. The question arises, if everything really survives as it is now announced, if Russia is on our side and Putin orders Russian representatives to veto the UN, means there can't be a multilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence, what are our moves and what are the procedures that the state of Serbia takes if bilateral recognition of independence occurs, if certain countries go into it, what are we going to do? Are we going to act the way it was at the time of Adenauer's politics and the way it says Halstein's doctrine or not, what are we going to do? Germany when the DDR was taken away, as they thought, Germany wrote in its constitution that the Democratic Republic of Germany is an integral part of the Federal Republic of Germany and that it will always be. The Germans waited 40 years to change the world's circumstances and could return their territory. According to Halstein's doctrine, they interrupted diplomatic relations with all countries that would then, bilaterally, recognise the Democratic Republic of Germany. I'm asking you, what's our move, is it that or something? That's when they ended their relationship with SFRY. Later, they made some kind of Bay Pass, seven years later, so we made consulates, and after 20 years, a new establishment of diplomatic relations began. What are our moves in that case? Our response must not be as did Serbian President Boris Tadic, in America, yes, we are against Kosovo's independence, and that is the only sentence that everyone repeats, but says, we have the most important relations in the world with America, so now, if you recognise Kosovo, what to do. It's a bad message, because they're going to say, well, we don't care, we're going to take Kosovo, and then it's like nothing happened. Okay, we're small, we can't fight them, but we don't have to say, "I'm sorry, it's wonderful that you took our territory, because it's the most important thing for us to be in with you." That means the next day they're going to take away some other territory, which means tomorrow they're going to say, now raise the autonomy of the Vojvodina, and the next constitution is going to be a turning point, when we're going to look for essential autonomy, which is going to say full legislative, executive and judicial power in Vojvodina territory, and then the same procedure. Then something will be our priority again, because we can't do it. Then the answer will always be reality policy. At all that's being asked as a question for you, the answer is, it's a policy of reality. If the policy of reality is, then, nicely, lift the election, lift the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and tell us that we do not need political parties, because we have a boss who will determine everything for us, and we will not differ in anything. We're going to set up an occupation galleater, which can be called anyway, and there's no difference, because it's a reality policy. I pray that the citizens of Serbia no longer listen to that stupidest answer. Do not insult the intelligence of the MPs, because there is no stupider answer to any question in Serbia than that – reality policy. No, we thought we'd jump to Mars or chase around Jupiter, so now you're very smart, so you point to what reality policy is. Then show us nicely: stop the country, there is no more Serbia as a state, there is no right to its survival, there is no right to its territory, they have taken it from us, but we have the most important interest – European integration. I don't care about any integration if they're going to take Serbia from us. Serbia is our most important interest, Serbian citizens are our most important interest, what black integrations. Here every day we listen to someone say, you can't, don't say one thing or the other, or the third thing about them. [[Applause SRS]] Ahtisaari shows up with a Nazi syndrome and a state organ chase starts, and we're going to respond fiercely. On the same day, don't let me lie, a spokesman for the prosecution (is there a minister of justice) appears for war crimes, I think Vekaric, who says, is important for Serbs and Serbia to face as a people and state with crimes committed in the previous period; he reiterated, paraphrasing Ahtisaari's statement. Your representative of the state authorities, your man said that, the representative of the government said that. And that said that, Comrade Ahtisaari, you're absolutely right. During that time, you're sending reporters, and let's find out that Toma Nikolic is somewhere for war or I don't know what. He asks him five times, and he says, "We will fight with all diplomatic means and in every way possible." And then he says, it says in the Constitution how the country defends itself, in every way possible. The next day, everyone appears, from Boris Tadic to this and that, with questions raised at press conferences. And you think we're crazy? And this before the trip to America, with the whole farce you set up with B92? I can tell you which one of your advisors called and which editor at B92. Well, you can't sell that to little kids anymore, not to us. Now, like us, we love peace, there are some lunatics who want to fight. No, every one of us loves peace and we all have children, most of us have children, and even if we don't, it's normal to advocate peace. Just so you know, in time, the son of Tom Nikolic, when he was called into the army and when those of you who are now inviting them to Belgrade Airport to come and make fun of us, bombed Serbia, served the army in the Boats, and his unit was bombed almost every night. That's what we're different about. Of course everyone wants peace and it is understood that every normal man wants peace. We're asking, do you have a country or not? They say then, the armed forces command them. Stop the army, we can't fight the Shiptars if they attack us, stop the army, you get gifts to stop the floods, to prevent earthquakes, to help, I don't know, pigs. Stop the army. What else does it serve? What's the army for, explain it to us. I see, now some others will come, Ohio, Texas, Kentucky, so they will take over Serbia, and you will see what you will and what you will do. Some journalists say it's a special agreement. What a black special, it's like for all the banana republics, the one from Ohio and Kentucky can do whatever they want and whatever they want. Then what do we need an army for, people? What do we need an army if you're going to say that our army doesn't need guns, that they don't need anything. We don't train her for war, we train her for floods and earthquakes. You're making fun of the country, people. Let's just have civil protection, put an end to the army. Don't make fun of the army anymore. We have the Chief of Staff, who is the chief of staff because he's a good friend of Boris Tadic and because he didn't want to defend his Krajina, because he lined up a maximum of one platoon of ten people in his life, he never lined up the company. He's a civilian protection man! Ladies and gentlemen, yes, Ahtisaari attacked Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and the Serb people on Nazi grounds. That's why your answer should be - what we have further to talk to you about. Anyway, it's more important how we treat the Contact Group, how we're going to send messages to the big forces, especially those you said their drugs weren't good, because they were made for little people. Is that right? As the DOS minister said in 2001: "We will never have these bad Chinese medicines again because they are made for small yellow people." It's me. It's me. It's me. Then China says, what do you expect from us, you insult one of the most powerful medicine in the world, you insult us as a country, as a people, in every way possible. Now, "give Russia and China a little help." Who can they help us against? Your biggest "friends"? I thought Russia and China would get back at us, listening to you so much that your "great friends" would help us. Turns out it's not like that. Unbound for all of this, we will support everything, and whenever it comes to the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, we will never make any problem, just don't tell us about the day before and the day after, because with you, since 2000, every day comes as the day of judgment for the people and citizens of Serbia, every day comes to him as the hardest and worst torment. Let me ask you, who will be able to return to the former state of affairs all thieving, crime, kidnapping and robbery that was made in Serbia. I wonder who will be able to return, God forbid, the loss of territory at any time, at least in 40 years, if that happens. Don't forget that you inherited Resolution 1244. At opposition meetings in 99 and 2000, when they organised Clinton's birthday somewhere in August, because they like to play with these symbols, it's not naive, big rally in Belgrade, they said, "We will easily resolve Kosovo and Metohija with our friends from the West." (loud from the O.R.): Where does that say? It doesn't say. You didn't write, you spoke. Mr. Chairman, I must ask you to honor these "yellows" for being nervous. I don't know what they're nervous about. I learned not to have them in this room, I learned only to have them in those tender privatisations, both here and there, where they're being robbed. I don't know what they're doing in this room at all. I'm counting, the man's gonna break up, I'm gonna finish up a little bit more. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the SRS is concerned, where there's a state interest, we'll always respect it and we'll always protect and defend the state. I just remind you that some were also invited to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and there was an agreement and it was a parliamentary resolution, as a general legal act, under which no one could do so. Pay attention! Please don't let this happen in the future, because it will cause damage to the states, citizens of Serbia and the entire Serbian people. I am sure that no one can kidnap Kosovo and Metohija if they do not find someone who will be quite significant and become their associate. A co-worker in destroying Serbian territory will never have in the SRS. That's why I'm proud of being a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29157	National MP Vladan Vukicevic (not here). National MP Milorad Vukelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29158	Dear President, honourable MPs, I see this assembly as one of the ways to stop betting on bad outcomes in Serbia, poor, catastrophic solutions and predetermined bad and irresponsible government behaviour. I must say that I support the proposed conclusions prepared for this assembly, as well as the report, and even more than that, the opening statement and the views of the Prime Minister. It is not particularly difficult for us socialists, and with joy we can accept these attitudes, because it is also part of our policy, it is part of the continuity of our policy and politics of all generations from 1389 to today. If it is a constitutional solution and, as the Prime Minister said, the indelible letter of the Constitution, then even in the current constitution, there is such a solution and there is no concern that any failures, which I do not believe, in the adoption of a new constitution, will create some legal void when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, this is a historically important decision and confirmation of existing solutions. Kosovo is a historic long-term process. Today we pass the exam, just like many generations before us, and make a commitment to those who come. No one in history, when it comes to Cosmet, has given in, so neither should we. In Serbia's political life, I hope that it is definitely clear, at least to the key political forces, that Kosovo is no democratic issue, nor a question of the nature of the regime in Belgrade, as sometimes, not now. We adopt here and adopt a declared policy in this assembly and it has its declared funds. But often unity around Kosovo is formally ostracized in several sentences, it is said that it is ready to defend these views, and then passionately move into that undeclared part of self-indiction, seeking guilt, self-indulgence, which is, in fact, a testimony to an undeclared policy, which not only confuses and demobilizes, but prepares the way for possible consent to other solutions. So much passion that individuals in political life, thinking they are using Serbia, use to self-inflicted and self-indulgent Serbian people, is simply amazing. It should be made clear that such behaviour leads not only to the confusion of Serbian citizens, but to bad solutions and paves the way and gives arguments to Ahtisaari or to this descendant of the Albanian queen or princess, and I do not know his exact name, which also leads to negotiations on the fate of Kosovo. It is something that I would like to warn, as well as the statements of state officials, who go to other countries, accuse their own country and their own people, make false periodisations of our history, share this and that, not realizing that this is a historic process of longevity, and then those people who tell them "Kosovo's independence is our goal," they say, "they are waiting for us to enter Euro-Atlantic integration wide." That's the way, I'm saying this with a mockery, let's get in. If we enter without Kosovo, if we enter with great satisfaction Carla del Ponte, if she gives a positive report, if we catch Mladic, Karadzic, sign Kosovo's independence, here we are in the EU, in NATO, in Euro-Atlantic integration. This type of policy is also an alibi for its own impotence and years of inability to see the essence. All funds are used by those who want to destroy both Serbia and the Balkans, to lead to the separation of Kosovo, including NATO. All the subsequent processes that take place here in the Balkans and here in Serbia, as far as Cosmeta is concerned, are only attempts to compensate for legitimateisation and legalisation, the fruit of armed terrorists and NATO aggression. Now that's quite clear. And there's something else that's clear. It is clear that Kosovo is the only question, and the most dramatic question, in which it is confirmed that the ex post mind and subsequent historical consciousness, and history is always the ex post consciousness somewhat, and the current political behaviour and authorities prior to this match. There is no solution on the horizon, which involved civilised and political means, which has not been tried in Kosovo and which Serbian people and Serb leaders have not tried. And none worked, which is because of the interests of foreign forces that end, dominate, which is because of our inability to apply any means other than the democratic means and means that are political and that were humane. The weapons used were weapons used against terrorism, and weapons against terrorism were allowed and legitimately everywhere. However, this kind of self-indiction, or as our brilliant historian Milorad Ekmečić recently said, if we had tickled the beast, might have been better. Those who think that by tickling the beast would avoid her teeth and her claws really know nothing about history or politics, and they can politically use it and use it. It's not the worst thing to do with the internal political consequences. The worst thing about this is that it is confusing and relaxing and some great force, permanent members of the Security Council, who are ready to support Serbia in its fair fight, is Russia and China, above all, to support us. But they support us if we really know what we want and if we're about what we want and unique and determined to defend it. You can't support someone who won't be supported or who doesn't know what they want. That is why I see this congregation and unity potentially achieved on it as an opportunity to demonstrate to the whole world and to ourselves, but sometimes it is harder than the whole world, what we want and that we are ready to fight decisively for it. I'm not a supporter of that political realism that consents unspeakably to unfair dictatorship and naked force. I believe that realism in the existing conditions is a determined and uncompromising struggle for its own interests. When these interests are defined as Kosovo, as interests in Kosovo and Metohija, then I see them as a struggle, not by political and democratic means, but by all means of state. It's clear what resources are state-owned, these are all possible assets that the state has at its disposal, including those related to its repressive and defence apparatus, therefore, to the military and the police. So I see this assembly as a single contribution to unity, as a contribution to a decisive fight, as a contribution to facing real problems. We, therefore, in this assembly, and here we see the mood and the authorities and the parliament, do not rise above the problems, spreading the problem to a better life or I don't know what, but we are dealing with the problem. To those who seem to have been lost in advance, this will serve as a reminder, and to those who believe that justice, if justice, principle and principle of history, on our part, confirms that these principles and those principles, when they are on the side of small ones, give great power, and sometimes greater power than they have great. Kosovo is our key, therefore, historic, life issue and I think that this assembly should be, as so far goes, a contribution to it, to complete unity and to that full awareness of what it means for us, and what we cannot and must never lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29159	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29160	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Government, Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prerequisite for any successful policy, for achieving any state and national issue is a real policy. We must never give up on having a real policy, a policy that is able to look at international circumstances, our opportunities, and how our interests, like relatively small states and not many people, are in line with the interests of great forces. So, emotions, hard words, we should leave for somewhere else. Politicians are not chosen to heroise in front of TV cameras, even less they are chosen to make their personal and emotional views about other politicians, international organisations public, and at least they are allowed to allow their political decisions to be determined precisely by their emotional attitude. We must never allow ourselves to be guided by whether or not we love Russia, China, USA, NATO, Brussels or anyone else. And that is why I completely reject the criticism that concerns that our policy must be realistic. Our answer must be that we behave within what today is reality. As for the report and the course of negotiations, I think it's all the way we expected it to be. It could not be expected that through these negotiations, I do not know what epochal solution, which would mean a deterioration of our position on our legitimate state and national interests, but I am sure that the functioning of our negotiating team is positive, in that our policy is very consistent, which our arguments are based on international law and on principles that qualify the modern world. In this regard, I welcome the report and the policy which our state leadership, headed by the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, leads to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, this generation of politicians and this state leadership have the burden of resolving talks on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. The burden is greater as it comes to underlining the line after centuries of process, which, in my deep conviction, comes down to the fundamental issue of living space between us and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. We have long been deluded into the delusions that in international relations certain historical reasons that we are calling for will be key to solving this problem. We didn't do it in 1912, we didn't do it even when the Serb army was in Shkodra. I'll remind you that at that time, under the threat of international military intervention, we left Skadar. We failed even when we were able to get the borders on the coast of Drama and I think it was a lesson enough to realize that in the future we can't base our arguments on something that was 5-6 or 10 centuries ago. It's good for our memory, for our descendants, for an idea that we can cultivate through generations in the future, but it's very bad if we're based on our national and national policy. Unfortunately, these international circumstances have been moving very badly for us over the centuries, which for objective reasons, is because of our delusions and mistakes. The situation was not even in the last century something too promising for a good solution to Kosovo's and Metohija's status. However, the conflict we had with the international community in the last decade of the 20th century to the ground has destroyed our potential to protect our national and national interests. After what happened to us at the end of the 1990s, after the bombing by the international community, we had no chance of protecting national and national interests. I think what we're doing right now is called saving what can be saved. What's the solution? The solution is not to go into the policy that led us there. The solution is what President Tadic said after visiting Washington. It's not the solution to get back on the old road. It is not an answer to, possibly, unilateral recognition of any state's interruption of diplomatic relations and, regardless of which it is not yet a topic, an example is exactly the Federal Republic of Germany, which has had a much better international position than we do. It's their situation that historical context, proof that it's not the way. The way is a different policy. The way is co-operation, the way is partnership, the way is to be part of those who decide today about our fate, but as the fate of someone who is not part of them, who does not share their values, who until yesterday was in latent conflict with them, who, in the end, was in an armed conflict with them. They're now deciding our fate. We must become partners, and the partner becomes only by sharing the same values and by participating in international division and work and responsibility, primarily for world peace and security. There's another time, not slow, it's legitimate for another time, but aren't the fresh memories of that different path. We can't keep fogging reality with it, let's wait for it to change the world's relations. Relations in the world are constantly changing, it's a process. And the story of the new world order; the new world order you have over and over again, you can draw it every 10 years and establish a new world order. Do we not notice that we are not part of any new world order? We're always out of the world's new order, whatever it is. Let us not lie to our fellow citizens: “Let us endure until the relationship of power in the world is changed. “ It will not change in such a way as to enable us to protect ourselves, with the kind of policy we had until 2000, our national and national interests. After all, it was politics, if I am not mistaken, Mirjana Markovic, the wife of the former president of Serbia and later Yugoslavia. She also urged us to endure until the relationship of power in the world changed. I'm sure as long as everyone here is alive, the relationship of power in the world will not change in a way that by autistic politics, by closing, by turning away from where the values are to share, and that's Western civilization, opportunities will not change so that we can achieve our national and national interests by such a policy. As for the day after, I will repeat what Dusan Petrovic said. The day after that is the day the foreign troops entered our territory. We live in the time after the event, after the loss of sovereignty and after the retention of only formal territorial integrity in Serbia's territory. If someone is interested in what is the day after, if these negotiations do not end negatively, the day after is a different policy that is trying to run the current government in the Republic of Serbia, headed by President Boris Tadic. The point is to establish bridges of co-operation, the point is to be where your voice should be heard, to be in the company of those who will decide your fate, the fate of your children, and not to stick their finger in the eye of precisely those who need to decide tomorrow how much help to cure, help for this or that. It's easy for politicians to be heroic, but I haven't noticed that current politicians ever suffer the consequences of their statements and their policies suffering from our fellow citizens. Heroes, hard words and insults at the expense of those who decide the fate of us and our children leave for home. I've heard here and the attitude regarding Marty Ahtisaari. Do we need to heroize ourselves here, prove ourselves by who else will condemn that statement more? It's an uncivilized statement, there's no need to talk too much about it, our state has said everything it has to say about that statement -- that it's uncivilized, that it's unacceptable, that it's questioned the impartiality of Marty Ahtisaari, and we tried to do everything we could to make it not the one who will lead those talks. The idea of saying we're not going to negotiate with Marty Ahtisaari because of that statement is putting us in a position not to negotiate with anyone, because the Contact Group is behind him and that's what our public needs to know. The contact group, however, stood behind Marty Ahtisaari after that statement. What do we have to do now? Let's say -- no, we will no longer negotiate with him, which means we will not negotiate with anyone, and that means that the decision on Kosovo and Metohija will be taken without any of our participation. I don't see that that's the solution, and I'm sorry that someone who's in, in fact, aware that it's not the solution trying this way to manipulate and buy petty political points at sessions like this. The army is not trained for war. It's been a while since the army trained for war and we'll never say that we train our army for war. The army is trained for peace, for the preservation of peace, for humanitarian actions, for the division of responsibility, for the security of the world, and that must be the mission of our army. Sometimes, when I listen to our colleagues, it seems like we live in different times and in a different world. What's the charge here and who are the charges against, who's destroying our army here, who's betraying the state here, or don't know what's already heard of this pay phone? We have a problem, and I will tell you very openly, as a society, with a part of our political elite, with those politicians who use the assembly speaker and their public appearance exclusively to satisfy their personal and party interests. This is our next problem: lack of responsibility in politics. Has anyone ever wondered what the benefits of the state and what benefit citizens have from its insubstantial statements and comments at the expense of those who decide our fate? I would really like someone to find me a causal link between such a policy and the quality of our fellow citizens' lives. I don't think there's any positive connection. I repeat, who is unable to act objectively, realistically, to handle the sole interest of the state, even when it is difficult to shake hands, talk, negotiate, who is not capable of it, does not need to deal with politics. Who isn't capable of leaving his emotions at home, let him do something else. If we deal with emotions, by who wronged us, we can all close our borders and be in a latent conflict with the rest of the world, and you know how this will end for our country and people. I'd say something about the constitution. The fact is that we need to bring a new constitution, there is no dilemma about how important it is to adopt a new constitution, not only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, but to our overall social arrangement. The fact is that that constitution has been overcome, that we need discontinuity with that wrong policy that has led to how far it has led, but I think we have gone over the possibility of bringing this constitution in an equally legitimate way as the Constitutional Assembly. I think we're taking a pretty big risk by trying to bring the constitution to light by the reviving provisions of the existing constitution. We're all going to help this anyway, each party, but I hope before finally deciding on the process, that is, how a new constitution will be adopted, and yet I say, they're completely legitimate both ways, before finally deciding, that a good assessment of the risk, or how likely it is to succeed. In any case, the DS remains attached to the idea of adopting a new constitution and we will do everything, no matter what time the constitution is made, everything that is in our power for the citizens of Serbia to come out and support the adoption of a new constitution, and that we as political parties come to this agreed text of the constitution, which I don't think is far. We will vote in favour of this report and hope that Serbia will overcome reality in future policy, understanding of international political circumstances, and that politicians in their public performances will, above all, take care of how positive their performance has a positive impact on the state and citizens, and take less care of how much their public appearance brings to their political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29161	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. On the basis of Article 85(1), I'm taking a break of up to 15 hours and five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true – I refer to the Rules of Procedure, the speaker is obliged to tell the truth about the speaker – it is not true that the forces of the international community bombed Serbia. Technically, NATO has without a Security Council decision committed aggression against a sovereign country. That's the first one. Secondly, I wouldn't be surprised if you suggested that a survey board be formed to decanonize a citizen, Lazar Hrebeljanovic, whom, in the unknown, the Serbian Orthodox Church has declared a saint. It is impossible in this way to talk about things that should be a political priority for every normal and well-intentioned man. How is it possible to talk about this matter without emotion? Whoever's talking about this matter without emotion, he doesn't belong here. Emotion can be love and hate. There's a great way between these two things. Our skill is to find the right way. But we don't have to accept any attitude that should only justify everything that's been done here, and what's done is terrible. We were a lab for graphite bombs, for impoverished uranium, for shortened buildings, for murdered children. Why? Because someone has claimed that the Kosovo issue is a democratic issue. Unfortunately, it's not a democratic issue, it's essentially a national issue and there's been a problem with it for 200 and more years, or several centuries. I understand the reasons that the DS has, but as far as I'm concerned, as a politician, they're not honorable, and I'm willing to take them somewhere else. It's not fair and it's not correct, as if we're students, that in this way we're talking about everyone who thinks differently about one question that, a couple of excellencies, and a state and a national question. The red carpet of one man whose name is Javier Solana, who made a formal decision to cut this country down, is a matter of ethics, a question of morality. It's not a matter of relationship to this or that. You have no power and no will to call a executioner a executioner, it's not a question of political bickering, it's a question of relationships to one of the most important issues, a question of survival. Let's not mind that one or this one. (President: Time.) We're talking about the Army. What army are we talking about? If it wasn't for these 700 tanks, which we had left ten years ago, we wouldn't have any potential that's a deterrent factor today in Serbia: 30,000, 20,000 soldiers, the best guys in Serbia peel potatoes in folk cuisines today. It's the Serbian army today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29163	I thank Mr. Baralic. In accordance with Article 85(1), a break of up to 15 hours and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the afternoon work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's extraordinary session. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, then the MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the report on the work of the State Negotiation Team contains exactly what we expected, which is the Serbian side's attempt to protect the state of Serbia on the principles of compromise and international law, as well as all those living in it. On several occasions, the report says that almost no proposal is in agreement with the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija. What's even more drastic is putting Marty Ahtisaari on the side that's the opposite of the Serbian side. What is missing in this report is just a criticism of the alleged peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija, a criticism of UN representatives, because they are being put aside by Cypriot separatists and terrorists. Negotiations are a process of agreement and compromise, not of imposing solutions. On page 7, the report reads: "According to our firm assessment, the Kosovo Albanians, their overall proposal, are trying to come up with solutions that would practically confirm the results of the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo Serbs and other non-Albanians prior to the decision on the future status of Cosmeta. "It should have been added, "with the consent and assistance of the peace forces in Kosovo and Metohija," because we Serbs living downstairs have witnessed all these events that took place since 1999 until today. It should be courageous, responsible and arguments constantly pointing to the unsustainability of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and to the impossible mission – independent Kosovo and Metohija. We need to publicly ask Europe and the world what it is that the Cypriot separatists and terrorists have done, and which they have tasked Europe and the world to give them two countries for not 100 years. Previous colleagues highlighted real politics, political reality, that Kosovo and Metohija were lost in the 1990s, which is precisely the words most irritated by the Serbian people, especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It is precisely the reality that Europe and America have been present in Kosovo and Metohija for more than seven years. Is America a democratic state? Are the countries of Europe, England, Germany, France, Italy and other democratic states? Do they have the general principles of human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law? Yeah. Then why isn't all this being done in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, if they have already been given the mandate to do so? How long does it take them to finally rule order and peace in Kosovo? What is currently happening in Kosovo and Metohija? An exodus continues with a systematic and planned attack on Serbs, mainly from northern Kosovo and Metohija. We remember the murder of a young man, a bomb attack on a cafe called Dolce Vita, the wounded of nine present in the cafe, two of which are citizens, the stoning of buses with children returning from vacation, the constant pressure on Serbs living in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. Are crimes sanctioned? No, I don't. When the perpetrators of the crime are caught, then it is mandatory to have a underage child who spends 30 days in custody and then is released. What's the message? You can rob, beat, kill, and you won't answer for it. It is the policy of an alleged peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we have to say loud and clear. What gives me strength and what encourages me is that now we all say that the eyes of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are aimed at Belgrade. When I said that in my previous term, during the DoS rule, a dozen MPs then jumped up and told me to make peace with fate and that my eyes and the eyes of Serbs should look at Pristina. Today that picture is different and it encourages me and gives me strength. Then they told me, go to the Kosovo-Methochial elections, participate in the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija, and today we have a boycott of these very institutions, which gives the right to Serbian radicals who were the only one to boycott elections in Kosovo and Metohija and to boycott co-operation, or to call it co-operation, with temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. What concerns the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija is a statement by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, during his stay in America. The views on Kosovo and Metohija are against us, but regardless, we will not argue, we will continue to co-operate. With whom Serbia should co-operate, with those who want independent Kosovo and Metohija, with those who wish, if God does not give Kosovo independence, and they accept that independence, that we co-operate. It disagrees with the Serbian people and does not want to co-operate with them, i.e. mixing with those who want Kosovo and Metohija independence. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of Kosovo's independence and Metohija by the end of the year or at the latest by spring is merely the desert desires of the Cypriot separatists and terrorists and their lobbyists in Europe, America and, unfortunately, Belgrade. Will the desire of the Cypriot separatists and terrorists be realized, will Kosovo and Metohija become independent? Not unless you find some crazy head, someone who will help them and give consent to Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We need to be all unique today in that Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia and that Kosovo and Metohija will always remain Serbia. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, we must think and act as a Serb people, and the desire of the Serbian people is for Kosovo and Metohija to be part of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the negotiation process, all areas of life have been discussed in Kosovo and Metohija, and I just want to make some examples. If you take a geography for the seventh grade of primary school taught by Albanian children in Kosovo and Metohija, you will see a picture, not one or more pictures in that textbook of the great Albania, and this great Albania contains the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the territory of southern Serbia, the territory of Macedonia, parts of Montenegro and parts of Greece. That's what Cypriot terrorists and separatists are propagating, but unfortunately, with the consent and co-operation of these peacekeeping forces that had to prevent such a map from appearing in many places in the geography textbook for the seventh and eighth grade of primary school. What is still worrying is the continuing lack of interest of the international forces for human rights violations, for the desecration of cultural monuments in Kosovo and Metohija. Recently in Kosovo, Mitrovica, in the port of our church, in the southern part, a multi-story was erected. I've got that photo in my car and I'll bring it by the end of the session if I have to. There are several family houses in our city cemetery and in our Orthodox cemetery, and in the northern part of Mitrovica there is a Shipyard and you can make sure there is no branch missing, let alone a monument. It is a relationship to culture, it is a relationship to civilization, but we are not clear international forces, why they do not prevent it and why they allow such a harsh violation of the rights and irritation of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. If they can't stop the robbery, if they can't stop the drop of the bomb, they can stop the building of a multi-story in the port of our temple in the southern part of town, they can stop the building of family houses on our graves. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the end, I would like to remind you that the Kosovo-methological problem has been a problem for many generations and will remain a problem for many generations. There are 130,000 Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. They live very hard. On this occasion, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the prime minister and president of the Republic and ask for more attention and help to those Serbs who have stayed to live in Kosovo and Metohija. When I say this, I think of helping not only their followers and those who are close to the regime, but all Serbs, because there are no social programmes, Serbia's programmes are missing to make life easier for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and so that they, which will probably take a long time, can endure and welcome finally this freedom that hopefully will come to the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29166	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Angelkovic, and then the MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, and Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29167	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Prime Ministers and the Republic, Serbia's fight for this area, Serbia's struggle to preserve its republic's southern part, Serbia's struggle to develop Kosovo's economic and cultural space and Metohija not since yesterday, and not only for the past 10 years, it has lasted much longer. In parallel with the process of economic and cultural development of this area and Serbia's huge material investment to preserve this territory and develop that space, to ensure common life, peace and tolerance, the process of Albanian separatists and terrorists to clear that area, to ban anything that is not Serbian, and to turn those who can turn into Albanians, to make the Turks disappear from that space and become Albanians, to make the Gorans disappear from that space and become Albanians, if they have not already gone, that Roma become largely Albanians. Assimilation in that space and ethnic cleansing is a decades-long process, which takes place. He's not tied up for a year. As ethnically cleaned after World War II or before, as ethnically cleaned and secured, through exile and through everything else, before 1971, so it was before 1974 and before the Constitution and after, before 1981, and before the demonstrations and after, in 1989, when the rebels were again armed. So it was in 1998 and 1999 and today. The regimes, authorities, many managed Kosovo all the time; it was both a kingdom, and a republic, and a one-party system, and a multiparty system. The relations of power have not changed. When I say they haven't changed, they haven't changed in terms of ensuring peace and tolerance. They have changed in terms of ethnic cleansing and banishment of non-Albanian living out of that space. In the end, we got that Kosovo is also managed by those on the side, to manage UNMIK. Even then, nothing has changed, and despite the UN Resolution, ethnic cleansing has continued in those areas. At different times, there were also negotiations. There have been many negotiations, but in no period can it be said that the Albanian delegation or representatives of the Albanian national community have taken these talks seriously, and in particular have not accepted them in the last ten years. They did not accept them because they always had promises, mostly from Washington, that they would get what they were looking for, which is that when they ethnically cleanse Kosovo, then they will get independent Kosovo. When I say they were told so, let us also remind ourselves of the statements of the then president of America after the bombing, which he said, so what if a hundred thousand Serbs leave Kosovo and Metohija? What is it other than a message for ethnic cleansing and banishing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Neither today nor in 1998, when a 16-time Serbian delegation went to Kosovo, an Albanian delegation, who did not want to come at the time, but now comes, did not want to discuss serious issues of resolving the status of people living there, but, above all, how to take 15 per cent of Serbia's territory. In Rambuje, there were talks, negotiations, just not direct talks. There were guests in Rambuje, but not talks, there were offers that meant: either Serbia will sign that in three years Kosovo will be on its own or there will be bombings. Today we have in Vienna: either Serbia will accept to be an independent Kosovo or you will not have good relations with us. They can't kill us twice. They bombed us once. That's the only difference, in nothing else. Neither today nor this assembly nor the people of Serbia accepted nor would accept such blackmail as to voluntarily give up Kosovo and Metohija. I'm listening here today whether we should have stopped negotiations after Ahtisaari's statement, or after these or those views of the Albanian delegation or Washington. It could not be accepted then either, nor today, because this negotiating delegation was not authorized by Ahtisaari to negotiate, it was authorised by this assembly. Only when this assembly says, and she has no reason to say that negotiations are interrupted can negotiations be terminated. We will continue and the Negotiating Team should continue negotiations. Of course we should say again what is historic, which is a national interest, which is that we do not give our territory, do not give our Kosovo and Metohija. It's not about anyone. In 1999, neither Slobodan Milosevic nor the government nor the people of Serbia could say anything but: we will defend and defend Kosovo and Metohija. Neither today nor this government, nor the Prime Minister Mr. Kostunica, nor the Government, nor this assembly, can say anything else but: we will ask the people again. As the people said in 1989, throughout Serbia, at many gatherings, as he said by adopting the Constitution, as he said in 1998 in a referendum, he will certainly say in this constitution: yes, the constitution of Serbia, which states that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia. It can't be any different, despite all these promises despite these unreasonable attitudes – that's how we'll do if we don't have good relations with Washington. They don't behave by someone stealing something from you, so you're still pronouncing it. It's no longer semitronic, it's superpoltronizing. They relate when everyone respects everyone's dignity and develops economic and other relations in favour of each other's people, both countries, regardless of the size and strength of any territory and any country. That is why both the SPS and this assembly should accept the Report of the Negotiating Team, because it has worked in accordance with the resolution adopted by the Serbian Parliament, in accordance with the conclusions adopted by the end of February this year, because it is what Serbian citizens will support and because it is the only right, not internationally, but any, usually every other right of this country to defend its territory and to preserve Serbia as a whole. No one else would forgive us. She wouldn't forgive us for our generations, and neither would the present generation if anyone dared to behave differently. Not even statements that, in this regard, say: what should we do if they take it away from us, are not acceptable and are contrary to Serbia's interest. Once again, Serbian citizens, I am convinced, as has been said many times so far, to say that to a single Serbia, because they were for it, will be for them, and that as a historical right belongs to them. Therefore, the SPS must, but we here in the Assembly must clearly, once again, say, in addition to these conclusions, that in these almost seven years since Resolution 1244, almost nothing has been realised, none of what was the basic obligation of both UNMIK and KFOR, when it comes to security, freedom of movement of citizens, the return of refugees, expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. There's no economic development in that space. Nothing happened and nothing improves when it comes to Kosovo's multiethnic composition and common life in Kosovo. There is no water, no electricity, no work, nothing to provide for a improvement and what is shown to be a improvement for these six-seven years of ruling the international community. When I say that we must declare this once again, then I also believe that it is the obligation of the Serbian state to continue to assist all those environments and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija economically, in the development sense, by opening new plants, by opening new jobs, by opening new schools, by opening new health homes, because we will thus send a message, not only by providing constitutional and legal protection to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but also by economically protecting that space. Finally, judging Ahtisaari's statement, I always remember the statements of our politicians who spoke about that period in 1998-1999. They said the government was a criminal, Milosevic was a criminal, and they interpret it this way - the government is choosing the people. Therefore, Ahtisaari quoted some of you who have spoken here, and above all to the DS gentlemen who have said that in the last few years. Unfortunately, when you don't think about it, then you get what we get. But still, Ahtisaari has no right to say it in any way, but it doesn't surprise me. Those who have been paid to work as lobbyists of Washington and Albanian separatists are paying off nicely with such statements. So that I don't argue with Mr Petrovic at every session of the Assembly on these issues – who is to blame, when it was a date before, when later, which is more important and less important, I will give him two books about what we were doing in 1998 and 1999. I wrote this about what was going on, and this also, under the title "Days of Terror", about what was going on between 1999 and 2000 in Kosovo and Metohija. I guess it'll be easier for him, and I guess he'll find out more. If it doesn't help him, I can't help him.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29168	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29169	Dear fellow Members of the People, with a fundamental regret that we have received this report really late, but it is good that we have received it at all, I would look back a little on the content of the Report which, in addition to this chronological review of how many rounds of talks there have been, so 13, so it kind of brings me together to those 13 talks that we had in Kosovo and Metohija, I mean the then Serbian Government, in an attempt to find a common solution with the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija, also gives a thematic overview of the protection of religious and cultural heritage, economic and legal issues, as well as the real community. Your conclusion on each of these topics was that your amendments, your efforts did not come across approval from the other side, nor agreement of will and that it was the status that must be resolved before all these questions. There's been a status meeting on July 24th. You were there, as you say, with the foreign minister, although he's not, he probably is for you. I want to tell you what is what is circulating in the people about Kosovo and Metohija, what the people think we can do and what we don't do. You may not have the opportunity to meet people on the street, but people don't believe that you're ready to solve this issue and represent it the way the Assembly has given you a mandate, because there is no unity between you negotiators. Reading what the daily press says, what you say as prime minister, what the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander say, what Vuk Draskovic says, as your foreign minister, can be seen to be diametrically different attitudes. This confuses not only the internal public, it also confuses the entire world public. So, if you're the Prime Minister, and the Government has this executive body, which, however, has been entrusted with, that, above all, this issue is being dealt with, to answer for these negotiations, you would have to ensure unity of views. You agree with each other on behalf of the Negotiating Team to step forward in public and then there will be no such delusions. This way we can read all sorts of things, let's just say, what Vuk Draskovic said about the issue of negotiations can do great harm to further negotiations. Vuk Draskovic at that prayer rally in Washington, among other things, says "The United Nations has halted the crimes of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic" and thus confirms what Ahtisaari says, therefore, that we are criminals against Albanians, but Albanian crimes against Serbs are not punished. It must not be made public, it must not be displayed under your patronage, without you condemning it or not telling the people – he said it on his own behalf; and he must not speak in his own name there, because he was probably not invited there as a Vuk Draskovic, there a former writer, but was called as your foreign minister. The transfer of responsibilities from UNMIK to local authorities and European military forces, as it is obvious that America, NATO and UNMIK, want to withdraw from Kosovo, which will succeed KFOR after leaving, say responsibility for security in Kosovo, and as soon as they say responsibility for security, it is suggested that security will not be followed after that, that it will be compromised. Someone here was talking about "merciful angel" and about what happened before and what's gonna happen the day after, I think it's DS, but if we want to be honest, we have to admit that "merciful angel" is still going on and we don't know how long it's gonna take. After the signing of the Ahtisaari-Cernomirdin agreement, and the agreement was supported by Vuk Draskovic, who now has to say what he's saying, so that he jumps into his mouth, then he's for it, and now he's against it, then allegedly we let NATO enter Kosovo and Metohija, then we lose Kosovo and Metohija and now we need to get him back or save him. A lot of people have died in these six years since the aggression itself stopped. Many have disappeared and terrorist attacks under the auspices of KFOR itself occur daily. What happens now in Kosovo and Metohija? You all know, and no one's gonna talk about it. So there is a grouping of KFOR forces in the north of Kosovo and Metohija. In late April and mid-July, KFOR conducted operational training called the 'Balkan Falcon 4 and 5', which trained the ability to respond to violent demonstrations, protection of the minority population, evacuation of the population, roadblocks. The "Balkan Falcon 5" took place between July 11th and 13th, and the protection of the administrative border of Kosovo and Serbia was practiced. From who? The answer gives us Alexander Ivanko, a spokesman for the UN mission in Kosovo, which says – the goal of increasing the international military political presence in Kosovo is to ensure the integration of Serbs of the populated northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica into the rest of Kosovo following a decision on the future status of the province. The block of the Serbian-Kosovo border is actually planned only in one direction, from Serbia to Kosovo, and otherwise it would be very permeable for Serbian refugees. In addition, we also know that the Red Cross, the International Committee of the Red Cross, is filling its delegation in Belgrade, while in Kosovo it has opened a special office. So they expect something negative about Kosovo and Metohija. World Organisation experts are building a project -- the integration of refugees from Kosovo into central Serbia. Why are you doing all this? It is obvious that we have fallen into the situation to expect a negative solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. I didn't hear you mention it in your opening statement, although it doesn't have to be an integral part of your report, although in the report you're talking about the functioning of the Negotiating Team outside the negotiation process, so this broad activity, I suppose, is yours or the President of the Republic, because you don't have a foreign minister, so I don't know how you could have this broad diplomatic activity. You didn't look back at what Vladimir Putin was saying, you didn't tell us if he was in any particular diplomatic activity, with Russia or any other great force, agreed when, how, why and where their interests were set up one way or another. You may not have to say it out loud, but you should at least welcome or thank Vladimir Putin for saying this yesterday, given that we have this session today, which somehow gives us a motive for optimism about Kosovo and Metohija. We know that you have public diplomacy, that you have secret diplomacy, so something from that secret diplomacy can be said in some way, that we know what it is that we can expect and what it's worth, because everything has a price. At first, I said you didn't have a single view of everything that's going on in the negotiation process. I think this assessment of you is too mild for Ahtisaari's position, but let me also remind you of a statement by Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, who also upset the public, and is related to the division of Kosovo. You didn't react as expected or as you should have reacted. In general, it seems that it is your working manners and that you miss that part of the organizational skills in that function and in your government, because every minister is the emperor for himself, and these two are without the helms, although I believe that both Mr. Tadic and you have your own commander who is somewhere in the West. Tadic, surely where he signed a military agreement, for which I do not know who authorized him to sign it, or whether this parliament will ever ratify such a thing, because we do not know what it refers to, as we did not ratify the agreement that Vuk Draskovic had with NATO at the time. So, you've gone a long way from Parliament, and that means the people, and it can cost you very much. What's going to cost you, about our internal political opportunities, it doesn't hurt that much and it doesn't matter that much, you're up there today, you're down there tomorrow, so you get up a little bit again, but it's going to hurt us all very much in international relations. When we bring some resolution about Kosovo and Metohija, you always say, " Starting with that we have built a democratic society," or what I know, but how we built democracy, if you hold two ministers in Parliament in a completely undemocratic way. So, you're doing your own kind of coup. If you swear something, you have to be principled in it. Secondly, I want to remind you, and I am ending it, but just to find your speech in the UN, where in one part (absolutely I agree with 98% of what you said there) you say: "Please, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that since the democratic transformation of the country in 2000, therefore, that Serbian governments have successfully led the country and have dealt with all the difficulties of transition on their own. "So no one was helping you. "The democratic authorities of Serbia have acted constructively in the region," yes, you went to Srebrenica to bow down and many more where, "and within the country economic growth has been achieved, media freedom secured, respect for human rights and significantly curbed crime and corruption. "Who are we lying to? We all know that none of what you said is true, but you have to say that when you go there. What are you gonna do? You can't spit on your own country. I understand that. You further said: "We have succeeded in making fundamental progress in co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague. "That is, you will certainly be recorded as someone who delivered them most to The Hague, independently and at a great risk. Then, "the conquered democracy has set the stage in Serbia and has managed to significantly improve the position of the people within six years and restore the country to the place it belongs to in the community of the people. "At one point you say -- we are co-founders of the UN, and we know that you have requested re-entry into the UN. So you're wandering around here, you don't know where this country is, you can't find her, what they say, the right thing to do. It's one thing we'd want, and the other thing is what's really been achieved. And if we hadn't been given a lot of great successes, you would have wanted that constitution and worked on it, here we are, almost six, seven years; if you wanted it, we would have brought it by now. If we had made a child, in seven years, it would have gotten into school and we couldn't bring one constitution. Therefore, we have nothing against it, it is known what status Kosovo can be in that constitution, but let me remind you, because today you have confirmed it, too, at the point of view of Tomislav Nikolic. That's what the UN said. If there is a unilateral declaration of independence between Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Parliament will not accept it, we will declare it an occupation, a temporary state and the like. I agree with you. When Toma Nikolic said that, it came from all artillery weapons, through the media, it went against the SRS, but then it came to you, not to say from where, it took a while to travel. So think about it when we warn you of something, it's not malicious. This is not a party issue, this is equally about you and us, and these yellow ones, and those who disappear, and those who come, and every citizen of Serbia. Whoever of us can do this, wants to help solve this issue, so give your hand to everyone, listen to everyone, read the stenograms from this session, maybe help you, but be honest with your people and be principled in what you do. I ask you once again, make sure, however, that this two of you be left without the helm, row alone with your parliament and your people, it will be easier for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29170	The word is Zoran Krasic. After him, Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29171	It is likely that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will better understand this point of today's agenda if I start with a sentence that was broadcast on all the media in Serbia yesterday, and paraphrased and applied to our situation it would mean -- Kosovo and Metohija is the zero point of the Serbian people, the zero point of the Republic of Serbia. If their zero point, where there were two soloists, no one can move alive, no one can threaten, no one can live in any way to question the fundamental point of one nation, one state, why not say one global empire, then both Kosovo and Metohija cannot question as a fundamental point of the Serbian people. Believe me, if you were in America and you were in Brussels a thousand times, and those who are blind and those who don't want to hear and who don't want to read would have to accept that there's a zero point in Serbia, too. Since we're at a zero point, gentlemen, I'm going to remind you of something we've talked about several times in this National Assembly. You went there under the authority of the National Assembly to talk, but not about the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, because that was already defined by Resolution 1244. When you say future status, then you don't prejudge anything, but, if I may say so, you're subfling that some alternatives are possible. According to Resolution 1244, the topic of the talks is essential autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija. It seems to me that for some time you've come out of that box. You admit that, though, by using it as an argument that something is imposed, imposed as a topic of conversation. I accept the explanation, but in that conversation you had to come in a lot braver. Why? Because all international legal documents are on the side of the Republic of Serbia. We gave you the authority to discuss the dimensions of essential autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija, but I get the impression that some time you forget about what autonomy should be defined. It should be defined against the state authority of the Republic of Serbia in its entire territory. So, when you talked about decentralisation, I don't think some areas are about local self-government. Why? You need to know that police powers come directly from the Constitution and represent an attribute of the state, an attribute of some government. It doesn't matter where the police will be, because if you accept that they can, in some configuration, be at the level of local self-government, then very quickly one of yours on the opposite side, not yours, don't get me wrong, I don't think they're yours, though I can object to you going there to talk on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether anyone likes it in this room or not. This National Assembly has given you the authority to speak on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With who? The resolution said -- with the population of Kosovo and Metohija. Those are the main arguments, the strongest arguments. Now I have to tell you, I fully understand the problems you're facing. The first problem, some very dear Javier Solana, had already explained to them at the end of 1990 "A merciful Angel", so he said – we had to do it, and his indifference signed a warrant to kill citizens, because so many and so many thousands of people were expelled, torturers were exposed that were not suited to democratic authority. And the fact that they were arming and wanting to tear off some part of it wasn't a legitimate state reason, so even Holbrooke, with his shoes off, was recorded with his friends. Not the devil, after a year and a half, that same Solana said -- there was no cause for banishment, we know that not some residents of Kosovo and Metohija were expelled, but we wanted to change the regime in the Republic of Serbia. You see, in 2002 at 2003, when it's said -- well, the regime's changed, so why are you doing the same thing now? Nothing happens in terms of human rights, OSCE documents, etc. You need to know that since 1990 you have been under pressure, you Serbs, to make you accept democratic standards. You see, three reasons as an excuse, three reasons, three excuses for permanent pressures on an entire nation, no matter where it is. I know you talk to people like that, and I know it's not easy for you, but call on international legal documents. These documents include our main asset in these negotiations. You have easily, I mean DOS, accepted constitutional frameworks, some of the regulations that these authorities have brought, you have easily called on citizens to go to elections, you have trusted them. And Milosevic believed America. They wrote it off. Everyone who believes in America, until a certain moment, is written off; they have some favor, and then it's very wrinkled and thrown away. Here's proof of that. A few months ago, a delegation, it seems to me to be from the Council of Europe, came here and held some talks with parliamentary groups. Turn, turn, there was a topic -- that someone in a Croatian attacked the territory of the UN, and that territory of Republika Srpska was protected by the UN, and what happened, etc. A man from the Council of Europe demonstrated fantastic knowledge of facts and nodded his head, the Americans said - attack. We've also touched the subject - the Dayton Agreement. It's said, that's where two good things came in. The first thing, the war stopped, and the second thing -- there were elections in America. Clinton needed to stop the war to win his second term. And the constitution, the Dayton Agreement, the annexes, is that binding? No, it doesn't make any sense. So Resolution 1244 can happen, commit, not commit, but there is something that binds them all, it is probably the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. These are probably the views of the European Court of Human Rights. It is probably the Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities. To be honest, you need to talk about this, about the highest degree of autonomy and the protection of human rights for a national minority representing most in a given territory. The central question is, in all your conversations, who is guaranteed what is being discussed and negotiated. The Framework Convention has resolved this. A guarantee can only be a state. So if you were talking about education, language use, etc., all those areas that are predicted to be a certain autonomy, who's guaranteed? No guarantee in terms of who should respect it, and I, as a citizen, must respect it, must the local, province and state authority, but who is guaranteed to the abroad whose act is conducted before the European Court of Human Rights? Where are the authorities for both Kosovo and Metohija? In Belgrade. That's what you have to say. Why? If that were not the case, no international-legal document would be valid. I'm getting a certain impression because of these negotiators, without the intention of insulting anyone, these people who do the technical part of the job, who's really tortured. It is likely clear to you the case of the famous Kalaj, who was the first administrator of Austro-Hungarian in BiH, who made fantastic work before he became administrator, about what Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the language in BiH, etc. As soon as he was elected administrator, he banned his book. You know what it looks like when a scientist forbids his book, when a politician forbids his book he wrote as a scientist! I get the impression that something like this is happening with us, but someone got caught in the crack. With all the sympathy for the concept of asymmetric decentralisation, which I interpret strictly at the local level, at the level of local self-government, I am not going any further, they suit you very successfully with the concept of general decentralisation. The witnesses of general decentralisation were in this room just now. Mr. Angelkovic mentioned it to you, I think he's 16 times Professor. Ratko Markovic went to Pristina to discuss exactly that, general decentralisation. Let me remind you, at the beginning of your term, you didn't want to put the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government on the agenda. Let me remind you. Don't you think there was a good solution with two-domestic and three-cameral assembly of units of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija? Why didn't their concept of general decentralisation come out with an argument, you were offered -- you didn't want to talk. You could have participated in the election, you didn't want to. He who violates democratic postulates does not enjoy judicial protection. That Ahtisaari knows very well. I know how he turned his hands and threatened to level Belgrade if he didn't sign. What did it sign? What everyone could hardly wait for, except for the Serbian Radical Party that objected. Here it's signed, and even the one who can't get in, which he escaped, he cried out from some pay phones -- peace prevailed, now the United Nations will guard us, so he can't even go there. We can blame you for a lot of things. I hope you realize that what we're talking about here has, first of all, the task of strengthening your position as a negotiator. There's still a lot of things I wanted to draw your attention to. Here you even quote some views of the UN tribunal. Stay away from that. If you don't already know what's going on in The Hague, don't blow the sails of The Hague. This is especially the part where someone is trying to introduce Kosovo and Metohija to a part of the former SFRY, which is based on its subjectivity from Yugoslavia, not Serbia. That's what they're trying to prove in The Hague. Take care of this matter of succession. Let me remind you, a mistake was made three years ago when the principle of succession was made that was applied to us, according to which the property of that state belongs, not the politics of pure accounts. Take care of some principles that are promoted on the basis of the principle of the Badenter Commission. You who understand a little bit, you should know, that's a principle that only existed in the '50s, when colonial empires broke apart, so new states formed. Serbia has never been a colonial empire to apply the principles of the Badenter Commission to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I have no intention of commenting on and going into the part discussed by the MPs of the SRS, expressing my agreement with the views expressed by Mr Tomislav Nikolic on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29172	The word has a folk MP Dragutin Peric, followed by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29173	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, when you were forced by the DOS in 2000 and when you became DOS feather, in your best manners you tried to instill in the people that at last, in such a democratic government, Serbs would protect their national interest. But in order for that to happen, we need to leave the bad past behind in order to show the world how we've sinned, but in the future we won't, that we'll be more cooperative than their demands. But the demands of these world powers never end. The story is that the wrong policy led in the pre-bombing period of Kosovo and Metohija cannot remain as a normal finding, for seven years since DOS has been ruling, normally, now in a second, shortened version. Whose obligation is it and who is able to protect and preserve Serbia's national and state interests, even after Security Council Resolution 1244? It is your obligation, Prime Minister, but also Tadic's commitment as president of the Republic of Serbia. The people rightly wonder who the DOS won for in 2000, but also this little DOS in 2003, for the people or for America and others you met all the requirements? What now, when you say you expect the most expensive request to be made, there is the possibility of losing Kosovo and Metohija. You cannot do this on anyone's behalf, at no cost, and not just you, but nobody in Serbia, even if Kosovo and Metohija are under NATO occupation for another ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29174	The People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlović has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija has been pulling its roots since 1878, when the Prizren League, by Arnaut, was created by an Albanian, i.e. a prizren or an Arnautic Congo, which is a real name. The Arnauts then, and you know that the Turks used the term Arnauts for the current Cypriots, for the first time defined their goals and showed open claims towards Kosovo and Metohija. They achieved their goals in the same way they do today, which is, above all, the persecution of Serbs, followed by various types of violence. At the time, they had the support of Turkey, Austria, Italy, and today the works of the international community. Today, when Kosovo and Metohija are under occupation, the Shiptars are virtually allowed. The policies of ethnic cleansing Serbs from their centuries-old hearths experience their culmination in 1999, with international forces coming, whose mandate is to protect, not just to be silent witnesses to the killing and banishment of Serbs. Monster killings are, in principle, never enlightened, so, encouraged by the fact that they will not be brought to justice, Cypriot terrorists are making new crimes. Among the most dramatic and unexplained cases are certainly the masculine murder of 14 Serb harvesters in the village of Staro Gracko near Lipjan, the murder of 11 Serbs in the mining of the "Nish Express" bus near Podujev, the murder of the three-member Stolic family in Obilić, the two boys in Gorazdevec, etc., which is evidence that not even after seven years of the world's democracy sowing on Kosovo and Metohija Serbs is better, nor is there any indication that they will be soon. As for the course of the negotiating process on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija consider it premature to enter into negotiations, but should insist on strict respect and application of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. It is the resolution that guarantees that Cosmet is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that all exiles must return to Kosovo and Metohija, to create security and freedom of movement for all. The Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija do not have any historical monument of material and spiritual culture, which represents irrefutable evidence that they are in a foreign, or Serbian country and that they do not claim any historical right to Cosmet. For the difficult position of the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the government of the Republic of Serbia has, above all, its inactive policy. In public, one is said, and the situation on the ground is quite different. There is something that we all have to agree on, which is that at this point the resolution of the cosmetic crisis is the highest state and national interest. These days, the OSCE Mission in Kosovo and Metohija conducts a survey among citizens, with the question of what will be the response of Serbs in the event of a declaration of independence. Serbs get different answers. Some say that immediately after the declaration of independence, they will leave Cosmet because they do not want to live in independent Kosovo, while others are convinced that they should not leave their hearths at the cost of life, because it is their, or our grandfather's. When they ask the Shiptars the same question, they speak as one - independence and a point. There are no ambiguous answers. When they ask them what their reaction will be in case they do not gain independence, they also respond as one – there will be blood. This is the attitude the international community is afraid of. As a Serb who lives in the southernmost Serb enclave in Kosovo and Metohija, in Strpc, just like all my brothers downstairs, I appeal, please and godfather, let's take our minds off, forget the row until it's too late, let's all do everything to keep Cosmet, because only what we give up is lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29176	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29177	Ladies and gentlemen, today, the MPs, before the start of this session, received a CD from some 4C institute, in the edition of the 4C Brussels Institute, which is a completely new form of proactive Serbian political communication in the world and is aimed at presenting the strength of Serbian argument in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. This CD is wrapped in a very interesting package, in which you can see that in some way Serbia is divided, that is, half of the Ship's flag, half of the Serbian flag is painted, and in this chair is an egg that is associated with what is called a guard house in Serbia, the first painted Easter egg that must be even until the next Easter, and this picture has completely cracked and divided. I wonder if this has anything to do with what you tried to explain, from the context torn out, by Sanda Raskovic-Ivić on the division of Kosovo and Metohija. Now I would like to comment on what he said or, better say, read the Prime Minister, and since we MPs got this material very late very late, it may not be bad that Mr. Kostunica read it here in part. First of all, Mr. Kostunica, you said you asked us to give up Kosovo and Metohija. It would be nice to be told which of us is asking, with what conditions it requires, whether or not Mr Tadic told you that someone and under what conditions in America is asking, given that, Mr Tadic, you spoke very friendlyly to those who have told you that they are for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. You only realized that your attitudes differed and that it is very important that we remain in good relations with that country that wants to take away one part of Serbia's territory. Mr Kostunica, you also said that today we will make a decision that is of historical importance, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. You're like the one that brought us back to the UN. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, and I guess that never, at least not in this room, was disputed, and it says, Mr. Prime Minister, and in this constitution, which is the current Constitution of Serbia, and I really don't see what kind of historical decision we need to make. Of course, we should insist on what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you said that, I was reminded of your famous ignorance again. You may not have read this constitution, and perhaps because of this you have some citizens in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thinking that such an option foresees the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not good, and that is what you saw in this decision, that you associate the day-to-day political problems with resolving such an important issue as Kosovo and Metohija. It is not good for political points to be collected to address the issue and to make such significant decisions. I should and expect that we are all really interested in resolving the issue of Kosovo and Metohija as most of the citizens of Serbia, all of us here, as representatives of those citizens who brought us into this room. I would also comment on Ahtisaari's statement, i.e. what Martti Ahtisaari repeated, and what he heard more than once from current politicians from Serbia and what has been heard since 2000, that Serbs are guilty of everything that has happened, not only in Kosovo and Metohija. We also warned you when you kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic and took him to The Hague, which means the trial in The Hague, which would mean Milosevic's conviction. Ahtisaari only told you what he probably heard from you, since none of you hides that today he says that everything that happened until 2000, until luck came to the citizens of Serbia in that five-octobaric DOS revolution, that former regime, and that former regime, as you call it, I would remind you, was created by the will of the Serbian citizens, by the will of the people in Serbia. It's perfectly logical that you think, or that you thought the same thing Ahtisaari said. There's something interesting again. Martti Ahtisaari's statement was made on August 8th, and you, sir, and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, publicly responded to that statement only after August 20th. I don't know why it took you almost 15 days to think about whether it took your friend Ahtisaari to say it wasn't correct, at least, what he said. In fact, he made one big lie, but you didn't tell him what you were supposed to say, and we warned you, when he was appointed to that function, who we're dealing with and that we can't trust him, that we already have a bad experience with Ahtisaari from that Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement. We have warned you all, and you are then god knows how you have played the role of this gentleman. Then when he said what he said, you did not ask him to withdraw from further negotiations, but only slightly rebuked him with some protest and, interestingly enough, that protest was signed by fellows Mr Kostunica and Mr Tadic, instead of being signed by both the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. You've found your associates, I'm surprised you didn't force the drivers and these security people, with all due respect to each other, to the good news that you didn't force them to sign a protest against Marty Ahtisaari instead. For this decision that has just been put on the table, we, the MPs of the SRS, and every time it comes to the general national interest, because what is contained in this decision can't be any worse than what it is right now. Unfortunately, if we don't fool the citizens of Serbia, I don't even know how much better. It is interesting that you wrote at the first point of this decision – "in agreement with the resolution of the National Assembly at an extraordinary session, after a versatile discussion", instead of just saying that this decision is being adopted, because it should sound bombish in the paper tomorrow. It is very interesting that you said what Mr Tomislav Nikolic warned you about in his presentation – that we should not discuss here something that we have not seen, which is the Platform of the Negotiating Team for Talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija since 5 January 2006. Also, in this point 2, you say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia concludes that the work on the adoption of a new constitution should be completed as soon as possible, and then you say, "from this constitutional position of Kosovo and Metohija will follow the constitutional obligation of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in agreement with the new constitution." I really don't see what these two problems are about. Gentlemen, let me remind you once again, for the sake of the public, since you are constantly saying that something you have found is wrong, we now have a clear and loud constitution of the Republic of Serbia in which, unequivocally, Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and by this present constitution, no one can separate any part of our territory from us. The Force, of course, we know, can do anything and then according to the Constitution, it declares an occupation of some so, God forbid, kidnapped territory. I don't see what you're going to do with some new constitution right now. Of course, this doesn't mean that we shouldn't be working on making a constitution, but that's what you don't want, right, and especially not you, Mr. Tadic, because of what we Serbian radicals are going to insist that the president is elected in Parliament. In any case, after the new constitution, elections are followed at all levels, then elections for the President of the Republic, and then you know that the result won't happen again. What can I do to you? Anyway, it'll be here soon. Ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday, I visited the Matarusk Bane something called a collective centre for exiles from Kosovo and Metohija. Believe me, I've never seen or experienced anything more shaken in my life. These people are placed in something that, imagine irony, called, I don't know, a villa this, a villa it, and so on. The fairies are objects in which, believe me, if you stayed for seven days and stayed for seven days, there would be an undertaking. Some of these people live there for seven years, in conditions that aren't even for animals, they really aren't. The one who hasn't seen it can't be explained, it can't be described. These people begged me, 500 people there alive, because they know that this session will be held today, to tell the MPs, to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, to the ministers in the government, to draw attention to the fact that there are those 500 people who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, who have been expelled from the UK for almost seven years, and who have been staying in that refugee camp for almost seven years. There's two-thirds of women with black scarves. There are many who say they don't even know where their sons are, where their husbands are, where their fathers are. They told me to tell you that you who have successfully found the coolers make sure you find those Serbs of ours who are not known to be alive, whether they are not alive. Of course, their families hope. It's normal and it's human, but they expect some concrete activity from their country and expect someone from the government to visit them. There's only one meal a day, and it's mostly people who are incompetent to work. With those younger, who are able to work, political persecution has now begun, checking who is from which party, for example, the Railways are driving everyone suspected of being sympathisers or members of the SRS. They really asked me to pass this on to you. They introduced me to it, I didn't know until Saturday, that one of our fellow MPs from Mataruska Banja, I'm not going to tell him his name, he knows who he is, and it's terrible that he never went through to ask them how they are and how they live, let alone that he tried through a representative of the government, because he's from the ruling coalition, to help them both literally and materially in some way. They told you, Mr. Tadic and Mr. Kostunica, not to believe everything you're saying, that they're very afraid for their fates, that they're very afraid for their native hearths and that they remind you that there's something called Resolution 1244, because for a long time from the mouths of neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic has heard that this resolution is mentioned. I hope after this you will visit not only this centre, but other collective centres, that, in addition to being convinced, you will sincerely fight for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, you will take care of these people waiting to return there, but they expect the state to create conditions for them to return to their hearths. They asked you, Mr. Tadic and Mr. Kostunica, not to speak of the status of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija's status is clear: Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29178	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the matter of resolving the fate of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of the five-October coup, is discussing the sixth time. Every time this was discussed as a key national and state issue, the SRS, like today's largest opposition party, which has the most trust in the electoral body in Serbia, whose president, although already four years in the Hague case, has clearly and unequivocally sent messages in connection with resolving the issue, whose deputy president has the greatest confidence in the electoral body in Serbia, has always voted "yes", of course, with our remarks and estimates that in some segments the declaration, the resolution, whatever they were called, could have been much more precise and clearer rhetoric and terms to define what we hope, in a broader political consensus, the key state issue for all the responsible political actors in our country. With that thought and with that consciousness, above all about responsibility to the state and the people, we have worked Serbianly and today come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and told you that this report, as well as the decision that is already on our table, which, based on our presentations to follow, after this presentation, or if it is the President of the Republic, finally decides that after the MPs and he has spoken a few words, he is talking about us, which you have admitted in this report and you are saying, whether individually or when you issue a statement about the way the SRS is being held, we are talking about the issue of our southern province as a key state issue from an unfavourable time distance, because today it is 12 September 2006, and the negotiating team, which does not have the participation of the SRS, has started negotiating with another party, allegedly negotiating, with the presence of the mediator, namely, the mediators of Marttis, last year. Then we can realise that for five years this issue, during the rule of the previous DOS, when Mr. Kostunica, the current prime minister, was Prime Minister, and Boris Tadic was defence minister, knowingly or unconsciously "supervised under the carpet". I remember, since I was a member of the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, what the atmosphere in the National Assembly looked like on March 17, 2004. Absolutely, neither the president of the Assembly nor anyone in the hall could, based on the exposure and the truly daunting appeal of Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, the representative of our party for Kosovo and Metohija... (President: I ask the MPs to allow my colleague Jovanovic to continue his presentation. ) It is the responsibility of people today to decide what is a key state issue, but it does not interfere with me, Mr. Obradovic. Thank you for your intervention, I will continue, but I must return, unfortunately, to that 17th of March 2004. So, when Mr. Kragovic came out for a pay phone, even the president of the Assembly told him not to give the grades so lightly, although he received information from his wife and from his three children that Serbs in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica were baffled, that a new terror was being prepared over our people. What followed and the appearance of you, Mr. Tadic, as Minister of the Military, at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, gave me the right to, a thousand times until then, confirm myself in practice, take my personal position at that session of the Committee, and above all, the party that is most responsible - the SRS, that you do not think as a statesman who should lead the country on the long run. This set of circumstances and the way you were elected in 2004 and everything that happened later in your secret or public co-habitation with Mr Kostunica, today, as you heard from the representatives of the SRS, from the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, in what Mrs Radet said, does not give confidence to our countrymen that you can, with such a cut-off attitude, by a position that will guarantee that they will have some security, continue to represent the state of Serbia. I'm telling you this because you've found yourself in an atmosphere unfavourable for our people and for our country, and in protocol you're on a very low scale accepted by the American administration. On the other hand, as President of the Republic, you have not followed what your statements have told you, and individual analysts, above all representatives of the SRS, so from the moment you were elected president of the Republic, that you should focus all your presidential activity on contacts with those Serbs in the world, particularly with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, the Russian State Dum and those who have a strategic interest in helping us here, in the Balkans, and us Serbs, as a people. It has been confirmed that we have directed you properly, and that you have remembered late or perhaps at this point you do not understand the importance of any such contact. I'm telling you this because, if you've ever wondered why Putin defends Kosovo and Metohija, you should know that he defends Russia, defends his friendly Serbian people, defends his interest in the Balkans, which is, of course, Russia's strategic interest, but not America, not the US and Western forces, NATO and all those who bombed us, killed and occupied our territory of Kosovo and Metohija, because they themselves and their officials in their statements say unequivocally, just like former ambassador to Belgrade William Montgomery, that what you call negotiations in Vienna, and what Mr Samardzic, as an announcement, characterised as a benevolent Rambuje, it certainly is not. It's the same story over and over again. The same ultimatums, the same demands of the Shyptarists for independence and if you followed them all the right way, you might not have brought us into that situation and into the deadlock we are now in, that, in some ways, we are grasping at the straw of salvation. If the straw of salvation is a general political consensus and it is a responsibility to the people who stayed down to live, as well as to 300,000 exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, we Serbian radicals will certainly help, but do not forget that you are neglecting some facts. You could see that today, Mr. Tadic, based on the presentation of one of your MPs, the man who is your close associate. He commented on this report and in a speech exclusively dedicated to the SRS, because of the fear that the SRS is coming to power for which month, said something that is not true, which is that much easier for those who went to live somewhere else and saved their heads, and thank God it is. Unfortunately, many have not done so, many have disappeared and are not known to have a clue, and some have found some refuge, here, in such camps as Mrs Radeta spoke of. In camps that exist in Kragujevac, with friends, with relatives, there are 30,000 Serbs in my town. But he would have to have one fact in mind, which is that there are places, so-called. Serbian enclaves, such as Gorazdevac, such as the village of Osojana, such as Gornja and Donja Brnjica, such as the village of Swinjare, where Serbs did not return after 17, 18 and 19 March 2004, in which they do not know until when they are allowed to survive. That's what's so-called. The international community, as part of their fight against terrorism, calls terrorism, in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a terror of minorities over the Serb people. It is a great evil facing the whole world, but the way in which the American administration, George Bush, Condoleezza Rice and all those who have received you face this problem, Martti Ahtisaari, first of all, does not contribute to the resolution of the fate of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. You'd have to know anyway, and if you don't know, I'll remind you who Marty Ahtisaari is. When they, not by chance, but on purpose, are being heard from the Šiptar negotiators, you heard from Mr Nikolic's presentation, and Zoran Angelkovic mentioned it from the 1998 period, nothing happens by chance, nothing spontaneous, and you know it, you who have been dealing with this issue for a long time, at the first round of negotiations in Vienna all symbolically appear with red ties, then that means that they have a unique goal. Someone thinks it's a banalization of things but it's not, because all their statements are later synchronised, they go one way, which is that they want Kosovo and Metohija independence. The question is, what do we now need to do and how do we continue to ask ourselves to solve this problem, which has been a strategic problem for us since the introduction of a multi-party in Serbia, since when we have been dealing with politics, since when there is an SRS, i.e. a key national and national issue. If you can help with the functions you've been in for as many months, because soon the elections will be at all levels, and you can't win the trust of the people, nor can you be the President of the Republic, because we will try not to choose in such a way, but in Parliament, which is the most democratic way. And Mr. Kostunica is aware that somehow, from session to session, he collects these of his coalition partners, but since you are in the role of continuing to negotiate and take responsibility for what he will commit you to today, as well as the previous five times, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then you need to know who you are dealing with, who is sitting on the other side and what you are talking about. The reverse order of events, which neither dreamed nor imagined by Mr Samardzic, when he wrote extensively and in length in 2001, or in 2003, that we would find ourselves in a situation to talk about so-called. decentralisation and on completely peripheral matters, I say peripheral to the status of Kosovo and Metohija, it was you and you who agreed to this, and you had no right to do so, because the status of Kosovo and Metohija, and today we repeat for who knows which time, defined by Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. Since you will still have to, therefore, while your authority continues, to meet or to pretend to meet with negotiators from the Shiparian Separatist side, along with Marty Ahtisaari, I must remind you that he wrote a book called "The Mission in Belgrade" five, or almost six years ago. I'll quote you for the ending of what Marty Ahtisaari wrote in that book. So, "If the government, control and great repression, puts mass pressure on the population," and he means the Cypriot separatists and the Shiptar national minority, "it has failed in its main task, which is the concern of the security of citizens and loses the right to seek equal treatment in the international community". What Marty Ahtisaari said at the time tells you enough about it without saying that Serbs are as guilty as the people and that we are ratting again with weapons. You accepted him as someone who would mediate in talks with the Shiptars, who only want one thing, which is independence from Kosovo and Metohija. We commit you today and do not joke with your head, as our people say, that at any time and anywhere, you accept something else. Kosovo and Metohija were, are and will be an integral part of Serbia. When, in the second day of his testimony in The Hague tribunal, in a trial against the already murdered former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Prof. Vojislav Seselj has been potential, as a witness to the defence, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, he has not only sent a message to those ignorants from the Prosecutor's Office and the Court Council in The Hague, but also to you, Mr Tadic, and to your ignorant associates in your political party, which he understands most of the patriotic Serbia, which is that this question is not simple and that it is not a product, as you liked to say, and now you speak to the so-called so-called. international officials, some poor governments from the Milosevic regime. That question is centuries old, and it's been treated since the Vienna Wars, by the Prizren League, that issue of survival of Serbian spirituality, of our faith, of what we are as a people, because we Serbian radicals were taught and we were born to never let down our country and our people in that sense. Don't joke about it, and don't think about it, ever and anywhere, letting down what the whole nation lives for and what future generations will live for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29180	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Since we've completed the search, does the president of the state want a word? (Yes) Please, the word is made by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (President: Please, a little dignity in the Assembly, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament. Excuse me, Mr. Tadic. ) Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the people, it is a surprise for me that individual MPs, at this very difficult moment for Serbia, when we negotiate the integrity and sovereignty of our country, find it appropriate to sing. Singing is an expression of joy, indifference, and this is a moment where all of us together and how seriously we need to talk about the problem we are facing and, I agree, about a problem that has not arisen in the last few years, but that has arisen many centuries ago. Even in this sense, there has been since 1912, when the state of Serbia faces Kosovo and Metohija as part of its own territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the views of the MPs in the National Assembly. I have listened to the views of those who believe that the negotiating process is going well and deserves support and I have heard the views of those who believe that the negotiation process is not going well and that it does not deserve support. In that sense, I would like to address our public who is currently watching the Assembly session and has the opportunity to see both the quality of the work of this session and the seriousness of the MPs raising the credibility of our most democratic, legislative, parliamentary institutions. In that sense, right in front of our public and in front of you, as MPs, I would like once again to confirm some facts, and thus answer some of the questions that have been raised in this debate. First, it was this assembly that asked that Serbia perform with a single negotiating team in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future. We have a negotiating team. In that sense, and the negotiation report must work unitedly. Therefore, either in the Serbian Parliament, either at the UN Security Council or at the UN General Assembly, the Negotiating Team represents a single agreed policy, which rests on existing platforms. It is impossible to ask that we have two reports, a report from the Prime Minister and a report from the President of the Republic. That would send a contradictory message. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the most important task that the Negotiating Team faces in the negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija - is to preserve the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, the people and all citizens living in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and this means both in Kosovo and Metohija. The task we have is to carry out with the best confidence and full strength, defending precisely the territorial integrity, the integrity of our country and relying on all the strong arguments that are on our side. This is a very difficult process, this is a process in which we face great temptations. This is a process that requires every state institution to do its part of the job. In this society there are several state institutions that are responsible for their work for citizens. In addition to the government and the president, there is Parliament, and all of us during these negotiations have a special responsibility for their final outcome. Therefore, both Prime Minister and I take our own part of responsibility, given our constitutional competence, realizing this political and historical moment with all its difficulties, but also the chance to defend our interests during the negotiations, as well as the future of democracy and stability of our country, which is particularly important, given the interests of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that after all the international talks that we have had in one strong diplomatic initiative, practically every week, being in one of the international capitals, leading talks with representatives of all the states that are members of the UN, and especially with those who today have their membership in the UN Security Council, we have represented a unique position, which is the position in which the state of Serbia, through its representatives in the negotiating process, clearly says - we do not accept the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, we do not accept the division of our country, we do not accept violations of international acts that can have far-reaching consequences for stability not only of Serbia, but of the whole Balkans and of some other regions in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the process is under way to determine Kosovo's future status. That process runs from day to day, almost a year. Every day, we must constantly raise our capacity to negotiate, not reduce it. Every day, in talks with international institutions, and in particular with representatives of those countries who will ultimately make a final decision in the Contact Group and in the UN Security Council, the strength of our argument must be extremely high and the credibility of our country must be to support this power of the arguments. If by any gesture we reduce the credibility of the Negotiating Team and our country, which means that it can be done during the negotiations on Kosovo, by acting in our state institutions when this topic is on the agenda, because someone might think (God may not think that one of the MPs present does not think this is a very important issue) that during the negotiations and representation of our positions, political statements by political leaders show that we do not care about Kosovo. In fact, we don't always take into account everyone together about raising the credibility of our negotiating team, our country's reputation in the world, and, in that sense, the force of argument that defends the integrity of Serbia's state and its sovereignty. It would be very important to think about it, literally, at any time in the negotiation process. Carefully listening to your suggestions, I must say that there have been very good suggestions. I will take them into account, and I am sure that Prime Minister Kostunica, as well as I, as the first people of the Negotiating Team, as our entire negotiating team, will carefully analyse all the proposals presented. We will choose the best proposals and include them in our negotiating tactics and strategies, if possible. In that sense, I must thank you for your suggestions. At the same time, just relying on a very simple and logical position that every day we have to raise the capacity of our negotiating position, I would ask you not to do anything to put our negotiating position, which is extremely difficult, at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, the state of Serbia has again faced an accusation coming from the international community that we are ratting on weapons. Believe that any statement that might resemble such a thing dramatically lowers our negotiating capacity. It's very difficult to negotiate. We are ready to take full responsibility in this process, but please, on behalf of the Negotiating Team, all of us who participate in it, that other state institutions do not retaliate unless at some point they help during this negotiation process. Any mention of war, any use of weapons during the negotiation process launched by our institutions lowers our country's credibility. I remind you of a simple fact. The strongest argument we rely on during the negotiations on Kosovo's future status is international law and international legal order. It is the international legal order that, in its decisions, which are part of the integrated international legal order, Resolution 1244, the Kumanovo Military Technical Agreement, ensured that in Kosovo and Metohija there are now members of foreign military forces in the international KFOR mission. It would be more than irresponsible to question the international legal order by any political move when it is precisely our strongest argument, the one that opposes Kosovo and Metohija's independence. When we sometimes go public saying what was in our heart, we have to take care of the consequences of this political attitude, we have to be responsible for all the consequences of such a political attitude. At this point, more than ever, we need an exceptional political responsibility. I very much agree with the views expressed during this discussion, that not only for us the future status of Kosovo is something that treats the state-history issue, but also the status of our citizens in Kosovo is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to worry about this status and we need to support those initiatives that are heading towards solving the existential problems of our people living in Kosovo, but not just our people. We must also show that all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija are our concern. We thus show that we care for the overall sovereignty and integrity of our entire country and for all those who live in our country. So when members of other nations are in trouble, when they are threatening epidemics, we have to offer our health facilities for their medical treatment, helping everyone because they are all citizens of our country. This shows that the state of Serbia is caring for its citizens, respecting the standards of European democracy and raising its own credibility, which is very important at all times in the negotiating process. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a difficult historical process. One of the MPs said the demographic situation has changed throughout the Balkans, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, and we need to be aware of the fact that it is part of our political reality. Some of the MPs have suggested that this country come up with a new plan related to our demographic policy, which I strongly support. At the same time, we had suggestions to take strong and well-focused state action, with the purpose of helping our fellow Americans who are in a difficult material situation. Ms. Verica Radeta suggested that we must take constant care of refugee camps, more specifically, internally displaced persons living in camps where living conditions are not suitable for the 21st century and this level of economic development that we have today in Serbia. Not to talk about Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all take responsibility together for the economic future of our countrymen and carefully escort the processes, which are ongoing and without our will, due to Resolution 1244 and the Military and Technical Agreement, privatisation in Kosovo and Metohija. It's a very important process that we have to pay attention to, because the existential future of our countrymen depends on whose hands these companies have secured jobs and salaries. These are all the issues that I agree with and which are raised here, in the discussion, but I would like to stress once again that I am behind this negotiating process, that I am behind the negotiating platform, that through this negotiating platform, in the best possible way, I am constantly deciding on the democratic process in the Negotiating Team, that we will continue this work, until the last moment fighting for the interests of our country, defending not only the integrity and sovereignty of our country throughout our territory, by worrying about this process and the interest of our citizens living throughout Serbia, and thus in Kosovo and Metohija, but by defending the democratic standards of the whole of Europe and ensuring through such a negotiating process a stable future for all of Southeast Europe in which we have a special responsibility. I therefore find it extremely important that the new constitutional solution treats Kosovo and Metohija in a special way, agreeing that in the current constitution our province is part of constitutional matter. There is no dispute, but in a political message it is extremely important to repeat it in all important political moments, as is the adoption of the constitution. As president of Serbia, representing the interests of Serbian citizens, I believe that such a solution is extremely important in order to defend Kosovo and Metohija, our national and state interest, as well as the economic interest of this country and all its citizens, as well as stability, with all legal, political means. I thank you for your attention, thank you also to those MPs who did not pay much attention, but I am sure that the focus of their heads did not affect whether they listened or did not listen to what I said. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-12-0.u29182	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank all the MPs who were responsible for the debate and all those who followed each other's exchange of views. Compared to that, I'm closing the search. After a search, the National Assembly will decide on a report on the work of the state negotiating team for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status in the period from 24 February 2006 to 10 September 2006 and on the draft decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby set out on 12 September 2006, today, at 17 o'clock and 10 minutes as a day for voting on the single agenda of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I remind you there are two votes, the report and the decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the State Negotiation Team's report for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status from 24 February 2006 to 10 September 2006. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and I find that 221 MPs, against and withheld, have not voted three out of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly accepted the report on the work of the State Negotiation Team for political talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija from 24 February 2006 to 10 September 2006. I put to the vote the draft decision on the State Negotiating Team's work on political talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija between 24 February 2006 and 10 September 2006. (Tomislav Nikolic from the site: Clear text of the decision). The consolidated text of the decision, which is divided into all MPs, thanks for the supplement. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and I find that 219 MPs, against and abstentions, were not voted by three of the 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision on the State Negotiation Team's work on political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status from 24 February 2006 to 10 September 2006. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I thank all the MPs, the present ministers, the Prime Minister and the President of the State. Thank you. Good-bye and good-bye.
