ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24847	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are working conditions. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Planning and Construction (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, you will receive in a few minutes. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24848	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. We had to, under the pressure of the public, many parliamentary groups and citizens, still make some changes and additions in order to speed up and simplify certain processes and perhaps slow down. A law has been passed that has been greatly influenced by some European laws. However, it happened that in practice we were unable to realise it and certain effects, which should have been significantly better, were extremely bad. Therefore, certain amendments and additions to the Law adopted in 2003 had to be made. I am sorry that these amendments and additions to the Law have been in the congregation procedure for a very long time and have not come to the debate, so that we can react earlier to some changes and additions, however, some processes are more realistically observed, accelerated, and simplified. You know that there are our citizens who haven't been able to legalize their facilities for some reasons for which they are not guilty and responsible. Of course, it is very difficult to legalise the facility in Serbia if after 20, 30 years of building the facility he has failed to resolve the property issue and where to date, and he may never be able to resolve the land ownership issue where the facility is located. You know, also, if we had a lot of refugees and there was intense construction to take care of these people in a variety of ways. We tried several times to do something, which is that people who made houses can get a legal connection of water, electricity, sewerage, postal services, and can pay the obligations neatly, regardless of what the object is in the legalization process. We also had a period that expired. Many of our citizens who live outside and who are not there, or in some more remote places, did not participate in the preparation and discussions that were conducted and had no idea that the legalisation deadline had expired. Now there was no technical possibility of them entering the legalization process. Therefore, these supplements are prepared to speed up, simplify, and all of this is followed by one regulation that will significantly speed up certain processes. You know that we've been exposing citizens to extremely high costs for years, that they have to do projects of objects where they live for 20, 30 years, and that's how we punish them, because they have to do a project of the house they live in, to do water installations, sewers, and that's formal, and the real state of the facility has nothing to do with what's being handed over in a particular project. It happens that objects that do not have, for example, reinforced concrete panels appear in the projects and that is not the real state of the field. Many agencies are taking a lot of money from citizens to get them some paperwork. We're going to regulate that through these regulations, to simplify this process and to make it cheaper. The goal is not to get certain funds in cities, but to register facilities so that our citizens can have their property and use various loans, to give property under mortgages, etc. This process we want to simplify, speed up and do something that's real for our conditions. I repeat, it's very unfortunate that the man who made the house with his torment and sweat years can't get a regular connection of electricity, and that's the case we have in Smedereva, because one entire village has been without electricity for years. Simply, Elektrodistribution doesn't want to give them the connection until they get that documentation, and the question is, when can they do it regularly? Simply, many heirs who have been out of the country for years will not come and give their consent; so they block a particular facility and who knows if they will ever be able to legalize such objects. Therefore, these changes and are complemented in order to improve and I hope you will accept them, because they are in the interest of simplifying procedures and helping our citizens to finish this job as quickly as possible and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24849	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radojko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24850	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have discussed this bill on the Committee. Most of the votes were supported by these changes. The Committee came unanimously to the conclusion that the law that was passed a few years ago, under, least of all, interesting circumstances, which you said about the assembly speaker, did not meet most of the expectations. In many segments and most of those newspapers that this law has issued, and on a different approach to planning, a different approach to the organisation of engineers in this country, which are important in this process, related to the engineering chamber and many other aspects, as well as to all those segments that should have accelerated the procedure for obtaining construction permits, during urban plans, the Law, practically, has not answered any of these issues and has not made any moves in those areas. The Committee's position is unanimous – it is necessary, for this extremely important area to further develop our country and to regulate the lives of all our citizens, to pass a new law. This is where the Committee took the initiative, it would be best if the Committee together with the ministry made one working group, because the Assembly has shown that it is able to pass laws, but we are absolutely sure that there will be no significant shifts in this area without new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24851	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Verica Radeta, the authorised representative of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is about a lot of papers, so I have to agree to be able to start, and I'm going to start with an SRS proposal to put out of force of the Planning and Construction Act. We have done this twice: and at the time of the previous government, whose proposal has been passed by the law that you are trying to do today, you will see, I will tell you how unsuccessful it is, to correct; and at the time when this government of Vojislav Kostunica exists. It's very interesting that both governments have rejected our proposal. For the first time, we have the government's opinion signed by Vice-President Miodrag Isakov at the time, and then we also have the government's opinion on 17 January 2005, signed by Miroljub Labus, vice president. Why am I comparing this? Not to read both opinions, the minors are identical, but an interesting last position in the opinion of the government of Zoran Zivkovic and this government, Vojislav Kostunica. This government tells us (Mr. Minister, you say that the law is not good, perhaps you weren't there when they agreed on this) – from everything out of the blue, it turns out that the law of which is proposed (and we're looking for an outlaw of this law) creates conditions for faster and more efficient building of buildings, for more rational planning of space and for the use of building land, as one of the basic resources of the state. Conditions have also been created for the effective and organised legalisation of all those objects which have been built illegally and their entry into the public books on immovable property, by simplifying the procedure of issuing the building approval and significantly reducing the number of consent obtained in the process preceding the issue of building approval. So, the same sentence is also in the opinion of the previous government, and you, Minister, have just denied what Deputy Prime Minister Labus signed, because you yourself said that because not all of these conditions, which we claim are not met, are proposing amendments and additions to this law. Of course, communication in the government is a problem for Vojislav Kostunica, but unfortunately, he's picking on citizens about the back. I'm going to go back to the time when the Law on Planning and Construction was passed, when we killed ourselves by explaining from these speakers to the government's representatives at the time to pass an unconstitutional and inapplicable law. You haven't changed anything in any part of your changes and additions to the law, you still have an unconstitutional law. Minister, ask your attorneys at the Ministry if there are any categories of land in our constitution that provides for this law. You, by the way, like all ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, are going in reverse order and think that the constitution of the state should be based on a law that is unconstitutional in the meantime, and then all this must be collected and put into the constitution. In normal legal states, ministers, the constitution is first adopted, and all regulations that are lower than the constitution are harmonised with the constitution. Of course, the state of Serbia has a constitution and all the laws that come before this parliament must comply with that constitution until a new one is adopted or the amendments change this existing one. We claimed then that the law to be passed would not contribute to legalisation of buildings built without a building permit. We're saying it today. What happened? We were in the SRS running one big action, going from house to house, looking for citizens' signatures to put out of force of that law that was passed in that former assembly. We collected a million signatures from citizens across Serbia who agreed to put the law out of force, because it could not solve the problems of citizens, all those who have facilities without a building permit. Then Nenad Bogdanovic, now talking about Zemuna territory, followed SRS activists; we were in Athens one day, the next day Nenad Bogdanović was coming with his "yellow" Studio B and then he explained there in front of a dozen citizens, mostly his associates who led with him, how the radicals were guilty of the creation of wild settlements. I see you're using that expression too, so I'm asking if you think that's where the savages live, if it's people who don't have a building permit on the facilities they live in. Then we argued, and now we are telling you, although you have denied it in this explanation, that most of the facilities were built without a building permit because of the poor work of the administration, from the Republic to the municipal. You will agree, Minister, that citizens are not obliged to suffer, if you are not able, or the city government of Belgrade, to bring in appropriate regulatory plans; citizens are not to blame and do not have to live, two or three generations, in one house, if they have their own building plots on which they can build houses and, of course, do not wait for the silly and slow administration that we have in Serbia today. There are also a number of buildings without a building permit built by people who are very poor, who have been working these facilities for years, and for decades, who are unable to meet all of these conditions – to have their works carried out by licensed construction workers, from builders, from builders, to build engineers, because they are people who help each other, who know that they are building walls, they know that they are putting up tiles, they are helping them, they are building their houses. It would be nice, Minister, if you were aware of the state you live in, that you are aware that our citizens do not have the means to pay for all your duties and duties. It is easy for you when you, with half a budget (sir, leave the minister to listen to me), to go after Serbia, and come to Smederevo and without shame and shame, while Palma Plus is transferring and watching you citizens via cable TV, and say – if you vote in Smederevo, dear citizens, for our Sasha (and your Sasha is a DSS representative), you will not know how many kilometers of asphalt and how many kilometers of waterway, and if you do not vote for our Sasha, dear citizens, you will still be trampling mud. Did your Serbian father leave your legacy, Minister, that you can afford such money, that where you vote for your candidate, people will step on the asphalt, and where you vote for another foot of mud. Do you have such powers to go to the King, to some village and to say that you will create an airport for people who cannot be reached by a "lad level", let alone that their planes can land; or to say in another village in the King – I will build a bridge, and a man who is next to you, from the local community, from your party, will whisper to you – ministers, we do not have a river. And you say, "Oh, we'll make two bridges, which is one bridge." The poor man bends his head down and he turns funny in front of his peasants. Laugh, this is all true. So Nenad Bogdanovic laughed, so did Boris Tadic when we talked about this problem. So Nenad Bogdanovic, when he followed us, when we led this action to collect signatures to put off the power of this Law on Planning and Construction, which is the most interesting citizen of Serbia for legalising buildings without a building permit, came to Altina and said that Altina's wild settlement thanks to the Serbian Radical Party. He, of course, has no idea when Altina was created, does not know that the Altina settlement was parcelled at a time when Nebojsa Covic was mayor of Belgrade and that this land was sold and parceled from the PKK and that the settlement was then created. Then he comes to the village of Busije and the village of Grmovac, he says – see what the radicals have done to you, they gave you almost nothing, and now you have no electricity, no water, no infrastructure. And where is the role of Nenad Bogdanovic? Busions were brought, thanks to the Serbian Radical Party, and the primary power line, and water to the centre of the settlement. Zlatan Jovanovic was the deputy energy minister at the time and he knows the part of the job as well as we did. And what happened? When power was changed, then they went from house to house and stole that people, took 500 marks at that time to allegedly bring them electricity, which had already been paid. What did they do in the village of Bolts? They are consecrating themselves to these people because they know they will vote and have voted for the Serbian Radical Party. We provided six trafostations for the Grmovac settlement and they magically disappeared thanks to the authorities of Nenad Bogdanovic and Boris Tadic. That's the way they worked and the way you work. Now you're just extending the deadline. We claimed to the citizens of Serbia... Of course, we didn't instruct them not to apply for legalization of buildings without a building permit, because we shouldn't have taken responsibility for any of our citizens to lose their homes because of such action, to bring out the competent city and municipal authorities and to tear down these people's houses. But we warned the citizens that the famous 13 November deadline was designed only to combine millions into the republican budget at that time. We've been counting at that time, I don't know exactly how much it is, but huge millions of dinars, because then there was an action from the level of the Republic, they say: citizens, just apply for legalization, you don't need anything from the documentation, just write down -- I have an object on that and that address, I'm asking to be legalized. Just please don't forget to pay the tax, one for the municipal level, the other for the republican level. And then, of course, most of the citizens, what people, afraid of the destruction you threatened them with, are going to make those demands, and from then on, nothing has changed. And you, Minister Ilic, promised in the election campaign (and all that I'm saying now is you were talking in the election campaign) and you claimed that the citizens were deceived, that when you were in power, you would significantly reduce the costs of legalising buildings without a building permit. And what you have done, you are nothing. Today in Zemun Municipality, we have two legalization committees that work daily and indeed a large number of citizens get a solution to legalization of objects. But what's going on? These citizens stand there, because it is only the first stage, they have no money to pay for what Nenad Bogdanovic is looking for in the name of legalisation and they in fact still have illegal objects. We continue to argue that the only correct proposal is to put this law as it is absolutely out of force and that, Mr. Minister, you hire the services to do a serious text of the law that will really contribute to simplifying the obtaining of permits for construction and, more importantly, simplifying and simplifying the legalisation of buildings built without construction permits. How good is this proposal to you best tell the fact that you have amendments by parties supporting the government? I guess that's the first sign. The same case, I found the notes, was when we talked about the text of the law that you're correcting today; and then we warned that government that it was one of the criteria that they'd set for them. They didn't believe us, but here they are now in a position to see for themselves. In this reasoning of the law, you told us among other things: "The application of the provisional rules of construction by this draft law is limited because it has been shown in practice that planning and editing of space in the Republic takes place mainly on the basis of temporary rules that do not have the property of the urban plan. By limiting the validity of the provisional rules of construction of municipalities, it is possible to bring the necessary urban plans within that additional period. "I'd just like to know where this was prescribed when you're talking about draft law, and we're here discussing the bill. And what does this have to do with what you wrote with the actual state of affairs, with the issue of urban conditions, with the planning of construction? What have you done within your ministry to make sure that this thing is properly resolved, that Serbia is covered by urban plans? You're not in power for a month, two or three days, so if I can't ask you that, I can ask you because you kept saying in the campaign that you needed plans, that you needed projects to do your big and smart ideas. Well, I guess in three years, you could have made plans and projects and really made this work the right way. What did you do in this law? Of course, I can see that I won't have time to speak individually about the members of this law, my colleagues and I will talk about details, but there are some members that must be mentioned. For example, Article 27, which speaks of article 84 of the basic text of the Law. You have proposed: "The right to use under Article 1 which has been transferred on the basis of the contract laid down in Article 5 of this Article is in traffic", and paragraph 1 is: "On the undeveloped other building land in the state property the right to use has an earlier owner, legal successor, as well as persons to which the former owner has transferred the right to use, in accordance with the law". This member of the law is collapsing you with almost all the members of the law, Mr. Minister, and it completely loses the meaning of what you have proposed unless you accept our amendment to delete this nebulose by erasing that member as much as possible. Article 21, we have proposed a new position, relating to Article 58 of the basic law. Article 58 of the basic law speaks of an act on urban conditions for building a facility, so you have added a new position here where you say: "For the construction of telecommunications facilities in an area for which no urban plan is envisaged, or for which no urban plan or urban plan is provided for the construction of such a type of facility, an act on urban conditions is issued in accordance with the conditions of the authorities" etc. It's okay and it should stand. It's incomprehensible why you only predicted telecommunications facilities in this way. Why didn't you remember that this also applies to the construction of energy and all other objects, that you finally regulate by law, to overcome the usual problem in Serbia that one street is being dug five times because for the first time there is no license to set up telecommunications cables, second time there is no electricity, third time for a pipeline, etc. So, all our amendments are very practical and concrete, with a truly ultimate goal and a ultimate intention to make this law as polite as possible, to help the citizens of Serbia. All of these are incomplete and very bad solutions and I suggest, Minister, we don't have to make fun of each other. You can go out now and talk about how you've done a big thing, because you've proposed a law that solves the issue of construction, the legal and the one without a building permit. You didn't do it. Drag this proposal, make a serious proposal, and we will discuss it with the intention of helping Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24853	The word has a capital investment minister, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24854	Dear People's MPs, I came here to fix something, which we said in the beginning, which was proposed a year and a half ago, and today it came in the process, put it in order. Of course, more amendments to the law are being prepared, which will later be a complete law. So, let's fix something. I'm very sorry that this didn't come a year and a half ago at the assembly session, there might be a lot more easier jobs and legalization of objects. It bothers me very much to tell some stories here – we'll make a river, a bridge. It's some '45 stunts, '46. It's not a serious story for a serious MP. We need to understand that we want to discuss this seriously. I thank both the radical party and all of you who gave the amendments. About 40 - 50 percent of the SRS amendments were accepted, since we wanted to fix this together. You'll see, we've accepted everything that contributes to the improvement and acceleration of some process to do this. You know that we also have some international obligations, that we used a World Bank credit for a single catastre at Serbia's level to speed up and simplify these processes, to deal with the catastrophe of Serbia. I'm glad to see you doing this at the state level right now and investing 31 million dollars in this project. It is true that we give for telecommunications facilities a shortened procedure, but that is if a transmitter is placed on a mountain to improve the signal, etc. It can't be in any special procedure. It can't be done with a hydrocentral in a shortened, accelerated procedure. If it fills the lake, you have now seen Cells at Kruševec, if it begins to slide land that could endanger a third of the country, etc. They're special objects and we can't have the same arches. I would like to add that we have made these changes so that in certain environments, small municipalities, such as Blace, Bruce, Shop, Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad, etc., objects can work and people with higher expertise, because in these areas there are no graduate engineers from certain areas and citizens would have to pay extremely expensive services to some agencies in large cities, which would formally sign something, control and monitor. So we wanted to put this in order, speed up some processes. Everything that has been suggested, and that is in this function, we have accepted. I repeat, 40 percent of the SRS amendment has been adopted precisely because we realized that it will improve some of the processes that are under way. Here, once again, I thank you and I say we have a serious debate. There'll be time for the campaign, and we'll talk. Our goal in the ministry is that no one in Serbia is trampling mud. Believe me, I'll try to make sure there's no mud in Serbia, that everyone gets asphalt in the 20th century. That's perfectly normal. So we accept all the suggestions, all the remarks that are justified, but we don't want to get into any petty bickering.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24855	The word comes from MP Branko Bosnjak, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24856	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, representatives of the ministry, every engineer, including myself, as an architect, of course we see our special parliamentary role in making, correcting and passing such a law. Of course we've been involved in the process of working on this law in the most intense way possible. In that sense, I would like to say a few facts about the role of party G17 plus in the creation of this law. When we entered this assembly just over two years ago, we MPs of the party G17 plus, through the resolution board, I would like to mention Mr Milankov and myself, as well as Mr Homan, initiating the process of amending and adopting a new law on planning and building. On our initiative, through the resolution committee, an inter-party group was formed, a body that took part in the first phase of the capital investment ministry and in reviewing the lack of existing law, at the time of the law that was passed in 2003, and we were not only with the representatives of parliament, but also with the most prominent experts, both the G17 plus parties and the extra-party personalities, tried to make our contribution to making this law as functional as possible. Unfortunately for me, that working body had only a few meetings. I think after the ministry, it just kept making this bill. I think it might be a good idea if it was a permanent working body, along with the Ministry, to continue and work. I think these remarks that the G17 plus party has today might be removed. Anyway, I want to commend the passing of this law. I agree with Mr. Secretary that maybe he's a little late. I think so much that since we've been waiting for him for so long, maybe something should have been done and corrected in the meantime. What this law lacks, and the working body has proposed, is that it has failed to address the problem of land status and property problems. You know best that the construction process is exactly what this country misses most, and that's what's holding us back in something more massive. Unfortunately, we have to admit, that's what usually limits any domestic, any foreign investors to invest their funds in construction. As important as building is, it doesn't have to be repeated. We're all interested in opening a new construction cycle. We know how much business branches are pulling behind them. We also know how many new jobs are in at least 20 areas of production. At first, I'm going to say something that I find positive in this law. I think this law has realistically looked at the deadlines in the process of getting the planning documentation. That's what we need so far and why we've been waiting for the missing plans so far, so we can be able to file requirements and building approvals. I think this law corrects the role of the Space Planning Agency. I think she was given the proper meaning and that, as the most important planning house, she has now gained importance. I think it'll encourage everything that comes from that. I think the affirmation of prominent experts and professions in the formation of planning commissions is what protects the profession and since the party G17 plus favours professionalism, I think it is one of the most important roles of this law. On the other hand, I'm going to count the objections to this law; I think in one segment he actually did the opposite. Also, I would like to commend that it truly values the opportunities of citizens in the legalisation process. You know that in party G17 plus, I specifically advocated a realistic legalisation process. In fact, the legalisation process was, in short, the upheaval of all those who were illegally building, but the previous law rightly saw that in the 1990s, citizens were unable to obtain real estate by modeling their parents, whatever they would gain in their real estate enterprises or they would have the opportunity to raise appropriate loans. Because of the injustice that was done to the generation that was to be at home at the time, the previous law had rightly thought about absaling all those who had worked hard with their means, and I don't think we had any dilemmas in that sense. I think this ministry has realistically and correctly seen that the legalisation segment in the previous law is missing in the field of deadlines. It was actually the first remark and the first proposal that the party G17 plus submitted the moment she entered this assembly. This law corrects it. Unfortunately, when we talk about him with two years late, we've come up with all these deadlines, but the fact that the previous law, the current law, has prescribed an unreal deadline for reporting and, worse still, an unreal deadline for processing the administration of these demands, has led us now into a situation that we can say that three years ago some legalization has begun, and I think unfortunately very little has gone away in this process. I don't think it's worth mentioning a few more positive things. In addition to giving me the opportunity to correct some of the injustices in the previous procedure through the adoption of sublegal acts, I am encouraged by the promise of the representatives of the ministries with which we have collaborated over the past few years that these corrections will actually come now. In order to implement the most positive of the previous law, so that those segments proposed and corrected by this law are implemented in action, I think we miss the sublegal act the most. To remind me just how pointless the regulation was and the rules of procedure that defined how the legalisation process would apply. To remind me of the tragic scope of the documentation required by the authorities of the local administration by applying the procedure in the application of the Law on Legalisation. Of course, we know, and the minister mentioned today how impossible it was, and at the very end of the line how expensive it was to make retail new construction projects, with static segments, plumbing installations, electricity, for buildings that were built 20 and 30 years ago. We are looking forward to this new sublegal act that should follow the adoption of this law. First, for the sake of respect of my own profession, for the sake of public respect, I would point out some of the elements that I consider negative in this law. Of course we will, through the amendments, and in the day to vote and through the lobbying of our fellow Members of Parliament, try to fix those parts that I am about to point out. In the opening statement, I said, and I consider it the greatest lack of this law, that the bill of amendments was not sufficiently concerned with property. I think the status of the land is something that will continue to prevent us from building much more and that we need as soon as possible to access a comprehensive law. We also resent that the role of the Chamber remains as it is. You know perfectly well that at the moment I became a National MP, I went to fight for the affirmation of this association's reputation. Unfortunately, the moment we entered the Assembly when we asked to receive a report from the Chamber, our resolution board received information on how the funds of all Serbian engineers were acquired and spent. We know that the same people at that time were led by the Chamber, were presidents, directors and the only ones who were actually paid on the basis of fees for, I must admit, pointlessly simple, but unfortunately very expensive projects. With a gruesome struggle and the whole profession being activated, as much as the G17 plus party could do it, and I have to admit with significant results, we managed to get that chamber to the Assembly, even though by the statute it was an obligation, but no one thought about it. The chamber has experienced some of its changing, some new people have come, but the G17 plus party is powerless to control the new leadership. Our knowledge, as architects, as a licensed engineer, is that there are still significant resources in that chamber, and there is still nothing done for the affirmation of the profession through the Chamber. I also think that everything the Chamber can provide is well known to the representatives and the new leadership of this chamber, but it didn't provide, we pointed out earlier, we point out now. I would like to say perhaps a few words more, since this could have been the subject of this law, the competent resolution ministry, in this case the Ministry of Capital Investment, is in a position to influence the amendment of the Chamber's statutes, is also in a position to exercise control of the business of the Chamber. Through the Assembly Resolution Committee, we have reached an agreement on what will be initiated by the Ministry, and what the Chamber will have to account for first to the ministry, and then, of course, to all the MPs as representatives of all Serbian citizens. I think the segment in this law that treats the legalisation process still has one deficiency, which is that it has now opened a new cycle of application for the legalisation process. It would not be controversial to help citizens who were illegally building, and for this they had some difficult living conditions as a positive reason. Of course, I'll always support that. I think in the last three years I've held a hundred hundred lectures, which is the debate on legalisation with one single goal, which is to help citizens in the process of applying for the legalisation process, encourage them and give them instructions on how to do it or that what is negative in the previous law in the legalisation process we jointly criticize and try to come up with a good solution. What this amendment of the law proposes, which refers to the legalisation process, is giving a new period of three months to citizens who were illegally building up until the entry into force of the previous law, which is 13 May 2003, to approach the new legalisation cycle. I can understand what the Ministry's motives were. The basic motives were that practice, meanwhile, showed that a number of citizens for some of their private reasons may have been unable to apply for legalisation. It can sometimes be a disease, sometimes ignorance, sometimes a absence and a stay abroad. But since the previous legalisation process actually favored the urban mafia most, and all the people who built for the market, got rich, built in places where they weren't allowed to build, built outside building permits, at the time building permits, except that they acquired huge assets, they actually put those who bought those properties and apartments into trouble. We know that the previous law knows the institute of those who have real estate, not the institution of those who built real estate. The bill of this law hasn't changed that. We actually sanctioned the person who owns the property in some way, not the one who broke the law by building outside the proper permits. With this pay phone, I urge all authorities of the local administration to try to control the possibility of abuse of the amendments to this law, which will refer to the opening of a new legalisation cycle, because the mere mention that such a law enters the procedure probably most of your MPs, and most of the citizens who may listen and watch this transmission know that actually those who know that the abuse of the law went without law, counting on some witnesses or in some kind of procedure, with corruption always present, are going to legalize their new object of legalization and that of their new real estate. Another negative segment of this law is that it did not move bravely enough in the decentralisation process. You know, in fact, the modern laws know best and acknowledge the will of the citizen himself. I think it took a lot more courage to go to the citizens, that those in the construction process have their own appropriate, democratically acquired role. In the first part, with the positive parts of the law, I commended the segments relating to the courage to do something about the affirmation of the profession, but there are segments in which the profession is actually slightly devoid and I think we'll talk a little bit more about it through the amendment analysis. I also don't think it's a good change in the availability of the editing act, because I think the law that we've brought about on the availability of information has just been verified through the possibility that every citizen will get information about what is being built at a particular location. This law leaves this right only to those who either have benefits or are owners or land users. I also don't think the property should be the subject of the plans. If I didn't bother the meeting and those who weren't professionals about all that, I think we should have a little more respect, a respect for the property. I'm going to say a little more about the role of party G17 plus in passing this law. The G17 Plus party has submitted 17 amendments to highly quality co-operation with the ministry. Some of these amendments have been withdrawn, with a promise that our objections may be subject to a new law. We also, with an exceptional understanding of the ministry, received agreement on several amendments. We also have that third category, in which we disagreed, and what will the representatives of the G17 Plus party try to successfully lobby with their fellow MPs in the next period to support these several amendments. What was a priority to the G17 plus party and our amendments is to maximise the role of the assembly, I mean local administrations' assemblies, which is that they have a two-stage insight into the adoption of planning documents. So, when it is acted upon as an observation that the congregation has once again the right to have insight into these changes and thus verify amended plans. It's something that we've been accepted and I think that the affirmation of the profession of licensed engineers in relation to the authorities of the administration and the officials, who can have even high school most often, and were able to return and qualify what a licensed engineer does under this law. It's fixed now, and I thank the Ministry for these changes. I would just like to end my address, and, of course, through the amendments, I will say a lot more, that we call on the Ministry, and these days I have called with this topic from several places and the Ministry and the public – since we know that there are some 2.2m euros on the account of the Engineering Chamber, that these are funds that are absolutely not being spent on any purpose, the proposal from the G17 Plus Party, Vladimir Milankova and it is mine to ask that the Ministry in all possible institutional ways that the Engineering Chamber donates all the recovery projects to all the rinks in Serbia. That initiative will also be addressed in writing to the Ministry. What I'm saying is that engineers of all kinds in Serbia are extremely unemployed. Since there is no job, we are fed up with the same engineers and Belgrade Belgrade architects, however much I have been since birth to this day, but of course the whole of Serbia is fed up with a group of engineers traveling all over Serbia and projecting, from slides, spatial plans, major projects, bridges. Since all engineers through their annual membership fee in the Engineering Chamber, I think it's time for the Engineering Chamber to move towards these engineers, to dissipate the competitions, but under emergency, that's something the Engineering Chamber has to do today, because the slides... And the MPs of the G17 Plus party have been in Serbia for the third week in a row, we've recorded, we're going to give the Ministry an insight into everything we've recorded and suggested. Once again, I urge you to ask the Chamber to donate project slides, it has a lot of resources for it and, of course, not to be engineers from Belgrade again who will achieve some business benefits, but to do so as a rule, and based on the competition, be engineers from that local administration or the nearest places. I thank you and, given that 20 minutes have passed, I hope that through the amendment debate, we will make this law as good as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24857	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs from the MPs of the SRS, G17 plus and the SPS. The word has the People's MP Dragan M. Jovanovic, and let the MP Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24858	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, we have before us a law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. He arrived in the Assembly a year and a half ago, and then he may have had some sort of meaning as such, as the amendment law, because probably the new ministry couldn't see the devastating consequences of the bad law of 2003. The president of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction is on my proposal... The board has passed a request to make a whole new law. It's the only solution to eliminate this devastating 2003 law. I'll tell you why. First, this law was passed, said the president of the Committee, but he mildly, since he was probably a member of the coalition at the time, the law was passed under strange circumstances. I'll translate what that means. It was brought in in a state of emergency. The construction law was passed at a time of emergency. In what way? By putting it on the agenda Friday at 8:00, and the deadline for the amendment was 24.00, so no amendments to the opposition were considered. There were 40 amendments to the ruling coalition, and then I'm going to explain what, from different stakeholders, started from those from Vojvodina who gave broad powers to the Vojvodina structures, to those of narrow interest who after generating mafia structures in the construction mafia. The law was passed in extraordinary conditions, in a way where the opposition could not stand a single amendment, and the Socialist Party of Serbia then had 26 amendments, of which it must have been 24 contained in the current changes, because then we also had a former building minister and former deputy building minister with great experience, who knew what to do. Why is the law bad? It was brought at a time of great political acuity, causing enormous damage to the later functioning of the law. Here's what I'm trying to say, Article 15 of that time demoted Serbia's spatial plan, and the spatial plan was brought in 1996, after seven years of work on spatial planning. The operator of the spatial plan was an institution for architecture and urbanism, and all entities were involved and anyone who knew something about it, from the Academy of Sciences, through all engineering structures. His duration was 20 years, and we think he was remarkable for those conditions. He is, for some, those who have done this to known reasons put out of force. The second devastating thing that happened in the planning is one member of the law that imposed a review of urban plans of cities. Believe me, that's when 50 cities had ready urban plans. I know about Kruševac, he had a finished urban plan that passed all the structures: he passed the ministries, the commission, a public debate. The law envisioned a review of urban plans. Like, socialists and radicals, who were before that, didn't know what they were doing, and they didn't, that's what the distinguished experts did. You'll see that new plans were done by the same people. So then a review of all plans was ordered and many cities were frozen and were left without urban plans, which are the basis for regulatory plans, i.e. for serious construction. The third thing that makes this law look so bad, in addition to political acuity, besides being brought into emergency conditions, is the disastrous impact of lobbying on its adoption, or the impact of its beginnings at the time, and I can't say it nicely, as Rade said, I'm quite a rough, building mob on, I'm not going to tell Belgrade, but it is understood, at its adoption. Why do I say that? The law envisioned certain solutions to which some monopolies had previously given absolute monopolies in some areas, namely some institutions, which are now visible from a distance. Now the G17 has seen, and Mrs. Branka Bosnjak, that it's a society that gathers mostly the ones they call "yellow." They were quite smart for their cause, they kept power after the government through the realisation of such institutions, i.e. the detention centers of financial power. I can inform you that now in the Engineering Chamber, almost the entire structure of the replaced deputies and assistant ministers from the previous government, from the previous ministry proposed by the law. What are they doing? They give licenses. And in order to get a license, if I don't explain it here right now, you have to legislate in one way and pay in another way. According to Mrs. Bosnjak, there are 195 million dinars in the account today, and it works without respect for the statutes to be controlled and it gives consent to the ministry, and it does what it wants. It's the center of the Democratic Party's power. Not just that chamber. Mrs. Branka has proposed a review of the statutes; it is not enough, we must here in the Assembly to pass the law on chambers to prevent one great evil. I'm going to do a depression, look at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it's in all the chambers, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is the seat of the Democratic Party, with huge revenues. There is no obligation on the part of the world to join the Chamber of Commerce, and any economic operator that is registered must be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and be stripped of the Chamber's contribution. They have millions, not to say billions, and they serve objectively, we all see every day on television, as a propaganda machine DS, led by President Tadic, yesterday in Leskovac; they created a vertical around cities and they are actually the government, and they are not in fact in power, because they have enormous financial power. I think as soon as possible the SPS is going to make a proposal, if no one else is going to propose the chamber law, where we have to define it in the way it is everywhere in the world. We are going to Europe, we are talking about European laws, there is no mandatory membership in the chamber anywhere in Europe. It's an interesting organization, and especially a Chamber of Commerce, it's an interesting organization where you approach if you have any interest. Every law must regulate the area to which it applies, define relations and prevent corruption. However, this 2003 law generated corruption. In fact, he created systemic corruption, or an existing core of the construction mafia, has absolutely expanded, I mean primarily on investors, on those who build. In the jargon, I'd say, so-called. white collars; you now have in practice, what, there are people with purses and bows who have companies to realize, or provide paper for construction. So there's nothing you can do if you don't talk to him. It's one big chain (because the mafia is something where the representatives of the state administration are involved), where without large funds, and depending on the size of the facility, you can't get the papers. This is what the citizens of Serbia pay, which is why the price of the square is 1,800 euros, because the one who pays must calculate it at the price. I think that by amending the law, we have to eliminate these phenomena, and that can be eliminated primarily by removing the monopoly. I was just talking about the license. There's an absurd situation: you have a number of people who because of the possession of a license... I did for the affirmation of the profession, but many towns in Serbia do not have licensed engineers, so there are a huge number of people who sell the signature; in order to be the construction manager, a licensed and graduated engineer must be. He certainly can't be, by the law of physics, in a thousand places at once. If more serious controls were made, it would be seen that he was not going to construction sites at all, but that he was just selling his signature, which brings huge revenues to a large number of people. The previous law indirectly made this possible. He's a huge number of people, over 10,000 people, with higher school supplies completely kicked out of work. The practice speaks, and I have upstairs in the office of thousands of photos with hundreds of solutions where people with higher school equipment were construction heads; starting with the NIS facility in Novi Sad, through many other grandiose facilities, the heads, or construction managers were people with higher school supplies. Mrs. Branka Bosnjak won't agree with me for sure, but practice shows that these are people who have results behind them. All that was done in this country, regardless of the height, the range –the construction heads were mostly people with higher school supplies. The previous law left them without a job. We had amendments, there was also a Serbian Radical Party of Amendment, there was also a G17 on the subject – on the Committee we managed to unite it and to give the amendment to the Committee, which is likely to be adopted – to bring these people back to life and to be able to design cities and buildings up to four floors and to manage the work on roads, streets, internal installations. So everything they've been building for years. It's nothing new, it's people who have years of experience and can work. They were put out of force by law, so that some other... Because the practice shows otherwise: go to any construction site and you will find a man with a higher school, only one who has a license signed. I'm allowed to swear that nowhere on the site, rarely, maybe somewhere you can find someone who signed it and is the construction manager. What else does the law have to do? He's got to fix the building and what's bothering us all, and that's legalization. The previous law did not allow that in any variant. I can tell you that only 4% of the legal requirements submitted are realised, for the simple reason that it's tied up again. It wasn't an accident that the building you've been legalizing, which you've been living in for 30 years, so somebody gives you a project that has nothing to do with that building of yours, which still costs 1,000 euros, and it can be done by someone who's privileged, i.e. in circles that do that. I'm not in favour of empowering ministers, I'm generally against it, but I think it's a good thing that a sublegal act will be passed that the minister will arrange legalisation conditions and where no project will be required for sure. Most of the people I talked to are not legalized precisely because of the need for the project – it should pay 1,000 euros in the project, costing it 600 euros in legalisation. I don't think the law was about land, because only legalization we have to provide conditions for construction. I've had a lot of experience in it, I've worked as the president of the municipality for a long time, so I've changed 15 sets a year for those who give the licenses, and I thought that's where people don't get the permits. However, there is a very big problem, and the law is not trying to solve it, in the land, through ownership, said Mrs. Branka, and other problems related to the land cadastre. Our MPs convinced us that some special methods, so they told us that we don't know anything, that this laser from the plane will be solved in six months, and still the land cadastre in Serbia is a huge problem, the entire settlements, the whole cities aren't listed. But what we can practically remove, these are obstacles that occur during construction. I'll give you a few examples, let some people at the Ministry think about it. The matter of preparation - I had a situation where two brothers, as I visited the terrain, live on one plot and when you leave you see that these are two independent households with enough surface space to be two salaries. One has a house, the other has a house. One has built a shed that is red, and this one submits a request for construction, urbanist can lift the floor, but they tell him – you can't, there is an object on the plot 1054 that is illegal. He goes to his brother, he says -- brother, to legalize, and you know that in Serbia brothers usually rarely speak, this other one does not legalize, this one cannot build a wall, and he builds a wild one. Or, the famous rebuilding of the land, which is literally being held in your organs; you have three acres of pay, you have a 100-square house, your son is getting married, you want to lift up the floor, you go to the municipality, and they say – you can't, if you build a floor building a plot crosses a certain percentage, you can't. What a man will look at, even if he goes to jail, he'll start building it in vain. In these parts, the law must adapt to life, not to be out of life, or to bring some standards that are probably European, but for these conditions may not be applied for many more years. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support these changes, for the simple reason that we think it is better to amend this bad law, to fix it a little, rather than to keep this old one valid. I think the Committee will insist on two things: the adoption of the law on chambers and the adoption of a new law on construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24859	The People's Messenger Alexander Vucic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vladimir Milankov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia we do not seem to have a chance to talk often about the laws that are of interest to the citizens of this country in this National Assembly. To remind you, more than a year and a half ago, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a request for a law on the termination of the Law on Planning and Construction to be found on the agenda. We felt that what you would call, or what the people call, or, whatever you want, the law on legalisation, that something that represents only a burden, an act that creates conditions and the possibility of even greater corruption and greater crime than there was before, but that proposal of Serbian radicals was never on the agenda. So, by the will of the National Assembly, or the ruling majority, they never thought to say, come on, so at least we'll say we disagree with the radicals, so we'll reject their proposal and announce to the public that we have an ideal law or a corrective law. We do not think the law is correct and it is obvious that the SRS parliamentary group will be the only parliamentary group that will be against this law. We are against him for many reasons, because neither these changes nor additions, or additions as it is now just said, nothing improves, does not improve, only in certain parts of the law itself, I would say, corruption encourages. Especially in the part where it is said that it is possible to allow and issue permits, if it is of strategic importance, for, say, cables, so it will be used by RATL, DS and representatives of the Serbian government and for their own wealth and for the further destruction of Serbia, but therefore something similar is not foreseen when it comes to the interests of the people and citizens of Serbia, when it comes to gas, electricity, etc. At the same time, let's see what happened in Serbia and what effects we have achieved by the Law on Planning and Construction, which we immediately said would bring disastrous effects for ordinary people's lives. According to the law, major problems, great noise and pain have taken place for citizens of Serbia. There are hundreds of thousands of objects that someone calls lawless, where people live because they had nowhere else to live, because it's the only way to keep their children, their families, the only way to live a decent man's life. Someone told them - we're going to get the buggers, the bulldozers... I don't know what's going down, I'm not an expert, you're masters of it, you tried to tear down television, so you managed to set it on fire, you tried to tear down the Assembly with these machines, so you're certainly more incomparably successful than us who would use such machines for jobs of interest to Serbian citizens. I'd like you to ask Mr. Vlaovic to turn off the phone or at least shut it down. I don't mind you talking on the phone, but at least keep him quiet, because you're distracting me. (Mika Vlaovic, from the place: You are too nice to disturb anyone, I apologize. I don't mind if you throw me, but I'm distracted by your phone. (Mika Vlaovic, from the scene: You don't throw anyone away? )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24861	Mr. Wolfie, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24862	So we've won a big media battle where you've been scaring the citizens -- you've got bulldozers, boggers, in Belgrade Bogdanovica, and over here someone else's, they'll tear down everything alive if you don't pay for it, and local self-governments and cities will determine how much taxes will be in line with what the law itself has predicted. First of all, come on, pay some 6,750 dinars, and people don't know what they're paying for. They paid for it by counting on them to be able to legalize it. As it goes on for those who still face the pain, they need to hear it. For example, in the municipality of Zemun, where there is a large number of inhabitants, I think it's the second largest of Belgrade's municipalities, people come to legalize their facility and they think it's Zemun municipality... (President: I apologize, indeed, please turn off your phones.) I don’t mind that you read the newspaper, it’s nice to read the newspaper, I usually read it in the morning, at six o’clock. I understand and more respect those of the parliamentary majority, and they are indeed in 90% leaving the hall, and some people seem to have an O.R. just for phone conversations and for reading newspapers. What do I do to you; but if you think you're going to provoke me to a more severe reaction, you won't. Then came the withdrawal of money from the citizens and hundreds of thousands of people reported their facilities, brought the money, and they don't know what they brought the money for. Now they want to go across municipalities to legalize in the municipality of Zemun, people come and say – we wait so long and so long, and count, wrong municipal authorities because they are unsupervised, because they are lazy to bring their cases to the commission. Do you know what the procedure is? In order to get all the members of the commission, three members of the commission, they must be representatives of the city of Belgrade, and they will not if the price of their arrival is 500 dinars, but are asking for a price of 1200 dinars, as some other municipalities have admitted to them. When that is the case, then he doesn't think about showing up in that municipality and there's no talking about legalizing objects, what's the interest of ordinary people so they can have, so to say, we have our property, legalized, I want my children to have a chance to do something about it. I can't believe no one's ever thought of doing anything about the interests of every citizen in this country. I cited the example of the Zemun municipality, it's all over Serbia in the same way. Why? Because local officials and political leaders are going to take money and it's only a question – see, masters, we can take care of you and across the line, especially for those big objects, especially for big and respectable objects, under the name of the businessman, we can sort it all out. But for that you have to come to pay us a million euros, here's a million euros, because you pay the state, you'll pay less, about 600,000, but on that 600,000 - 200,000 in our pocket. Is that so? Yes, it is. You all know that, you know. So why don't you change that, which hasn't changed anything, which the law doesn't clearly specify the whole process and how can citizens solve this problem as quickly as possible? A very simple bill, not to make a big philosophy about anything. In Belgrade, for example, there are about 200,000 illegal objects. To take the average of 100 square meters is that object. It comes to him 20 million squares, to take at the lowest possible price on average, to go 30 euros each, to pay you so much per square, there's also for your children, for my grandchildren, I solved one big problem, I finally got bored. To help the poor, the common people, the middle-class people, not just the richest, and yourself. But how much money is that for the state? It's only at the Belgrade city level of 600m euros, I think I've calculated well. Hey, guys, for 600m euros, you've solved the problem for the citizens of Belgrade, just Belgrade, so count on it, all of Serbia can flourish. You know what 600 million euros is, here's your pants shaking because of the ten million dollars they want to give you -- they won't, they won't -- they won't give. Are you going to arrest Mladic for ten million dollars? This is 600m euros in our reserves, the people that the state can spot and make in any way. I'm not worried about what they're getting, and you don't need to worry, because they don't care about anything. They don't care... Well, it doesn't matter what's here today. They know... Well, his dad didn't come, either, did he? You know, since his dad's here, I've got something for Dad. I wouldn't, but you say his dad's here. Do you have something to say? (President: Mr. Wolfie, please don't really get into any private discussion, and I already have a signal that this father you're talking about is the deceased. I'm not talking about that father, I'm talking about the ideological one, because I didn't even know who was throwing it, I didn't even see anyone yelling - hello, so they waved their hands, threatening from above. I know you have authority, you're very strong and powerful. You're very strong, you've stolen a lot of millions, you've done a lot of things against Serbia and its citizens. Don't think everyone will be afraid of you. Well, I got something for that ideological dad of yours. It's the Minister of Capital Investments, and that concerns you, Mr. Mihailovic, since you're on the board of directors of the ZTP, so please show me, I brought the papers, to show me... And first you should have raised the one up there who came because of the ideological dad not to read the paper at the session, because the citizens of Serbia didn't send him to this hall to read the paper, but if he had something smart to say. I don't remember him ever coming out for this pay phone to say anything. Yeah, he doesn't read the papers, he informs himself, I apologize. I brought a travel order here, Mr. Mikhailovich. I'm sure it was in your hands, since you're a member of the board of directors. You know, I only have documents, I don't want to say anything. It's about the work organisation of the ZTP Belgrade, theOUR and that, the RJ Train Pulling Section. You know, when trains stop, there are spare buses that will transport passengers from that and that place, and nothing weird would happen, this is a travel order for Dragan and Zoran, the connection of Belgrade-Cacchak, the mark of the IK-308 bus seat 31/1, registration number 644022, the mark of the area where the bus is registered BG, here's a copy of the document. We have everything, so Topcider - Makiš - St. Mark's Church - Čačak - St. Mark's Church - Makiš from 10.00 and return 22.45. It's about holding a session of the main committee of the ideological dad's party that reads the paper. So, Serbia's citizens' money spent on board sessions, and here's evidence and tachograph here, please, complete documentation for both the ideological dad and the newspaper reader at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't have said this if you hadn't been so bold and hadn't started throwing, I wouldn't have thought of it. This is how I ruined your newspaper reading, what to do to you. I assume this is what the Attorney General heard, and I count you as a member of the Management Board, Mr. Mikhailovich, that you are familiar with it. They haven't met you? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailovich. (President: Thank you. To continue with this more serious gang, the yellow gang that occupied everything and bribed many from the ruling coalition. Today, in Belgrade, you have several lawyers close to some political parties who finish all the jobs. One is yours, his last name is Komatina, and two are "yellow": Shebek and Todorovic. To get into their office... Otherwise, they have some functions, the presidents of the Belgrade Management Board, whether of the Business Area, but they open all the doors in the City Assembly with their feet. How? The thieves gathered, the only ideological common line, their only common ideological denominator is to kidnap the citizens of Belgrade all they can do. To get into their office, you have to set aside 10,000 - 20,000 euros just to get you in, to finish any job. And that's for these little jobs, so-called. It'll work. You know how you do, bro, come on, they say, I got a job to do. And then that's how these jobs end. Now, in order for us to be able to do something for the citizens of Serbia, so that the citizens of Serbia can benefit from the law, so that their property can be legalised, so that these facilities can be legalised, not blackmailed by how much money they're going to lose... And to finish what it looks like when it's finished in front of the municipal commissions with the presence of the city's representatives, it also means when you give them the satisfaction to come, so pay them, because they're unhappy that the municipality brought the price of 500 instead of 1,200 dinars for their arrival. Well, when they're gracious enough to come and then it's not over, because when you get a solution from the congregation of the municipality, in this case, let's say the congregation of the Zemun municipality, and then you have to go out to get your ass kicked, to shake the money off the head of Nash. He has to go to Nash's boss, so he can take the money to make the solution finally. Yeah, you know, you can, by the way, compensate for some deal and with this one of yours to get rid of it, but then Master Nashy has to do a little bit more than the other. And secondly, he needs money for both pumps and wife's and everything else, and he needs money for the paper. You saw one of theirs today. New furniture, it's small things, it's not, 20-30,000 euros, it's small things. Look, you have amazing things in this country -- that we are being lectured by representatives of the Democratic Party in every place, and by some other political parties. It's that gang, Mrs. Bosniak, we talked about together in the election campaign. Not that it hasn't changed, but it's only strengthened, it's solidified. Like, let's say for Nemina, you know, work is worth 33.5m euros, paid 8, and there's another 2.5 to be paid. That's what you know, and I know you know, that's what I know, what all citizens of Belgrade know. Is that true? You understand each other better than I do. You won't say. You want me to tell you what companies are doing to them? He says, "MSTNI, an Italian firm." Someone would say, the Italians came to work for us, kissed by their mother. What black Italians. It hides so the people don't break in. All the godmothers work, and behind the Italian firm. Is that right? Yeah, well, you know it is. It's like we don't know it's like that. That's right. The Italians didn't even see it. None of them came for a tourist tour either. The suits are Italian. Maybe they named that Italian firm after Italian models. Mine's "Zextrina." They are the ones who tell us that we should fight corruption and crime, and they go and call their journalists, after they have made their newspapers, which are professional and objective, so one of them tells us the other day – I am ready with a fecal stick to beat MPs. You tell him - well, we're waiting for you, we're small, I'm aunt, I'm grandmother, I'm wife, and child, because he thinks he's insulting you, because he's very brave and strong and he's this fecal adviser to the president of the Democratic Party. Since you are very strong, you tell them – we wait for you, come with that rod, and it can turn against you. Then their editor, personal editor Dragan Gilas and fecal advisor, asks the question – and has Alexander Vukic personally threatened you? By what, by what I said – you want to beat us with a stick, and we'll be there, we won't stay away. I don't know what to tell you. We've got a lot of chlorinated, clean water from one of the national parks. We had to put in a little bit of chlorine, so we're going to clean up and clean up the president of the Republic, his fecal advisors, the same directors who say we're very successful at making five million euros in a year. That's profit, I apologize, they worked harder. You don't think that can be washed? Maybe we'll have to put something else besides chlorine water. Look at that kind of insolence. Let me ask you, is there one of you that reported a profit of five million euros? Are you all stupid? Not to say you, me, all stupid. What's five million euros? Does that fit in this room? Where does a man keep it? Does the bank have such a vault that it can cost five million euros? What bank in this country is that it can cost her five million euros? That's what a 300-square-square-grandfather needs for, just to put it on. So here we face the problem of banditism, big corruption and big gangs. These big yellow gangs have decided to do what they want and to charge honest people with crime. So they leave with representatives of this thieving television that they stole from the people and the state for 68,000 euros, when they banned people and participated in the bidding and everything else, directly from the government of Zoran Djindjic. He called and told Rodic's son that he couldn't show up, that he couldn't raise his hand, because his hand would be cut off. Have you heard of it? How you didn't, when I told you this from here many times. They wanted his hand for television, and they wanted him to come to Popovac by chance, and they wanted their head cut off. The direct message from the cabinet was – if you show up in Popovac we'll cut your head off. This was a message saying his hand would be cut off. If someone shows up for a newspaper, it looks like his legs are gonna cut off. And those who cut hands, their feet, their heads, their tender, and their bids, and they tell their editor, now ask me how he threatens me. What can I tell you? All of this will have to be opposed by someone in this country. Unfortunately, it's obvious that today the SRS is lonely, but we will stand up to it. You can buy newspapers, TVs, do whatever you want, and as much as you want, we'll stand up because the bauk of freedom and truth is spreading through Serbia and you won't be able to stop it. This problem you have today and why they're uniting you all back into the same basket, the ones you said were murderers and the worst criminals, they only unite you for one reason, and that's why you know: if they come to radicals, they won't be able to be as the main board of DS, they won't be able to be the power of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to be as the main board of DS, they won't be able to be half of the companies to be your executive boards of DS and your parties, so they all split up, they all get their salaries, their receipts, and I don't know what kind of miracles. That's not gonna happen. Then Mr. Mihailovic will be familiar with the papers we met with today, and many others. These are things that will have to change in Serbia when radicals win. Since you know that and you know that no more gangs will be able to load into trucks, that's why you team up at all costs and try to stop it. I'd like to inform you that you're not going to make it. I inform you that we will fight all political and democratic means, we will fight with all our heart for the freedom of our people and against your robbery, against the kidnapping of the "yellow" and everyone else in this country. For that freedom, for normal Serbia and for the normal state, we will fight because the robbery, kidnapping and thieving have never been superior to either the Serb people or our society. You introduced it as a practice, as normal, and then even though the biggest thieves should pursue honest people. And that's what we're going to end. You're free of bought journalists and editors, newspapers and television, and I don't know what it's all about. I'm telling you, you've had so much time, six years in power all together, except the SRS, all of you, if you had anything, you'd have hung us on the terraces a long time ago. You're not. You still have time. Arrest if you can, if you have anything. And you'd open the camps if you could. We won't do that. We guarantee you that we will politically protect you, pet you and watch out for you as little water on the palm of our hand, because it will be as long as it remains in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24863	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24864	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I owe an apology to some MPs and citizens of Serbia. You did ring my cell phone twice – never in two years since I called anyone in the Assembly, while those who objected to me did – I have a friend who is in the hospital in intensive care and therefore I keep my phone on to tell me if he is alive and whether he died. You, Mr. Wolf, have the least right to teach someone culture in this congregation. He's a rare speaker from another party you never threw away. Many times you've said from this pay phone – you're all thieves on this side. Throw a stone at me if you're honest, what Christ said. You got an apartment in Belgrade, and thousands of people in Serbia retired so they didn't get an apartment. You're a politician, you should've been realistic and turned that down. My entire estate, even though my grandfather was a host, is worth less than your apartment, and here you are spilling the story of honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24865	You're probably looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it was a replica? You personally have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24866	Don't cry, Mr. Vlaovic, you almost made me cry when you went out for a pay phone. I, since you've repeated it the millionth time, as well as your yellow colleagues, got from the state exactly 61 square meters; that's what I got from the state, like many others. You've said that a thousand times. Mr. Vlaovicu, Mr. Kostunica got 200 square meters in downtown Belgrade, 204 squares, I'm sorry, in communist times. But I don't want to talk about Mr. Kostunica, I'll talk about you, I won't talk about Djindjic, I'll talk about you, because you say like Christus throws a stone. What are you done with, Mr. Vlaovic? What do you have to do with oil? What are you doing on the board of directors? You're pouring into a tractor, so now you need to be on the board of directors of the oil industry. Is that your job? It says in the law that it must be a high professional cook, and it can also be when it is not a high professional cook, because Mika has to calm down, so Karic came to you by chance. Why didn't he come to me to offer me something? I just found you. It wasn't my intention to tell you anything special, except that you really unfocused me by ringing the phone. As for pitching, I'm one of the least profitable and I'm trying to even tell my friends that they don't do it from time to time, even though it's normal to do it. I said, get whatever you want and whatever you want. I don't think I've ever been rude from a pay phone. As for the thief, if you have that I stole something somewhere, I'm going to jail right now. I say about yours and I repeat, I didn't say – you, Vlaovic, stole that and that, but you, Hamovic, stole that and all those who are tied to your government and who are tied to your authority, just like those who are tied to Boris Tadic, are thieves and criminals and have to go to prison. It's the essence of things. There's a fundamental difference and nothing special. Did I say that, Prophet? I didn't. When I make a mistake, I'm ready to say sorry (once Markovic was right when I got the warning) and go right out and say it's okay, but when it's not okay, then it's not okay. It's my fault, imagine, what kind of a bad wolf he is, he's warning a man who's ringing his phone, and he's waiting for a call because someone's in intensive care. (President: You're out of time. I am guilty of not knowing whether he has friends in intensive care or not. Was that the goal? It really distracted me. They know my associates, my friends, nothing drives me crazy, but when a cell phone rings at a meeting, everyone in the SRS knows it. I tell them when my phone rings accidentally to turn it off at the same time. I don't want to leave anything inexplicable. I like to have good relations with my neighbor in the parliamentary benches. So, I stand by the words I say and I'm ready for them to answer in every place. What's our problem is, I don't want to talk any further, on boards like this or whatever... And by the way, no one from the SRS is a member of any board of directors of any public enterprise or anything else, although it has offered us its time, Vojislav Kostunica. We refused that, we didn't want to participate because we knew that at some point, if someone from the opposition accepted it, it could be a reason for corruption and something else. I can tell you about the examples here. I can't explain it to some people who can't understand something. When one plus one is equal to two he yells three and he's very smart, I can't do anything to him. Some of them were running away from math class in the first grade. So my idea is this: that we control as an opposition what the government is doing; it's your job to get angry when the opposition attacks you and keep doing it, but if you have something else to tell me, not what you mentioned a million times, you saw this morning, I didn't want to, but I came with one new paper. Something new's come up. If you have anything else to say to me, tell me something new, don't tell me what you've repeated a billion times, I guess you're proving that's the greatest disgrace or I don't know what it is. Yes, because I don't have 500,000 euros to pay for the wars in a year, like some who are honest have, so they don't even let me ask. I don't have $50,000, I don't have 10,000, I don't have any of it, and I'm proud of not stealing and not being able to make half a million euros for villas in Dedinj, Senjak and other places. That's what I'm different from.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24867	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24868	Ladies and gentlemen, the notorna is a lie that Kostunica has received an apartment from someone, a notorious lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24869	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24870	I thank my esteemed colleague for giving me the opportunity to express some of my views on corruption. Of course, the fact is that my stay and engagement in politics is exclusively and only motivated by the fight against corruption, and of course it has been confirmed in many of the opinions that you have here. Also, my current engagement in the city's assembly, I am a member of the Belgrade city council, is truly strictly motivated by control in the urban sector. I have to say, of course, abuse is there, but I've never been before, and I'm never going to bring it up at a pay phone in the future, either in the media. It's mine that when I recognize something properly, I process it. I volunteered because if I didn't say this, I would agree with what was said, if I knew something about abuses, millions and embezzlements on the project you mentioned. It would really be my duty to respond adequately and really invite you, please give me the information on this personally. If there's any basis for that, I can honestly assure you that the knowledge you've said, and you've made you think that I know something about it, I really don't have that information. Once again I ask you to give me information on this; I assure you, I will let you know when we process the results and what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24871	Replica, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24872	It's true, Mr. Wolfie, that I have an eight-year-old school, not because I was stupid, I was a great student without a four-year-old at an eight-year-old school. Since my family had been taken away from the land and had no conditions for further schooling me I remained a farmer and honest and proud of it. I was able to finish college and school, a lot of people with red books and racing schools, evening and colleges, a hundred marks, and with some dinar in the index went to college. The fact that I'm on the board of directors, there are 70 employees, if I could run agriculture and 90 acres of land and 50-60 in lease, without any trouble, I can work and control on that board of directors' work, it's transporting pipelines, there's no big technique. Something else, I didn't ask for it. I wish I'd never heard of the Karic in my life, never seen him or met him. He came to me and, I believe it's both honor and a fair relationship, I rejected him and publicly told me what he had offered me and narrowed down his goal to bring down an honest government of Vojislav Kostunica and to come back to power of the tycoon, which he also belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24873	Replication to Mr Simonovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24874	So, I have nothing to comment on, to say anything about what Mr. Simonovic said by reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I have to ask if the stork brought it. How did that happen there, in what way? (Velimir Simonovic, from the post: I will explain. And you'll explain? You don't want to explain it, because I know it better than you do, and it's not my topic and I didn't want to tell you, but just to explain what it might look like when you want it to. Let me tell you something, Mr. Vlaovic. You say you've graduated from eight-year-old school. I didn't even know. I had no idea. You could've finished four grades of elementary school. My family finished four grades of elementary school, but I don't think that's a bad thing. They worked and earned their lives fairly and fairly, but with four classes or eight grades of primary school, they were not on the boards of the Oil Industry of Serbia or anything else. That's the only difference. They worked the country, and the boards didn't interfere. I don't mind you being on the board of directors, and I have no doubt you might be able to work. There's only one problem with that, one only. You know which one? That's awesome. The law says you can't, and you say - I don't care about the law when we can. Not you, but someone who talks about legalism. I'm done with you, I have nothing special to say to you. Do not transfer people – someone could have made 100 marks. Did I put 100 marks in someone's index? Is anyone there? If there's anyone, maybe there is, maybe there isn't. I'm sure there is, but I don't know if that's what you meant by me. You're not. I have nothing more to say to you. Mrs. Bosnjak, as far as what you were talking about, you were in the campaign talking about crime and corruption just like me. In the campaign, we talked together about crime and corruption in the City Assembly. When we were at the duel, I didn't have one thing that made me different from you, if you remember. We were on a radio duel, and there was almost nothing about solving municipal problems and major city problems, especially with regard to what the city government did until then, both the mayor and everyone else. What changed in the meantime? The fact that you became a member of the city council, that none of the promises made in the previous period were made. Do I need to remind you of the promises of the city administration, those who were candidates, who said they were going to start building the subway, that in less than six months, the construction of the bridge across the Sava, would be planned in three years to build a bridge across the Danube. Where are your bridges? Where are those subway stations? Where's any of that, except for the one where they can take the money, put it in or put it in their own pockets? I know you know I'm telling the truth. Everyone knows it's true. I can tell you, and I'll bring what I'm asked when I'm asked, but do you know that the prosecutor's evidence is not enough, nor is it delivered to him as a result of a budget inspection signed by Bozidar Djelic? (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It's not enough either. Tens of millions of euros, which I don't care who's interested in. You are talking about the travel expenses of MPs; you paid only one lawyer in the City Assembly five times more than you paid for 15 MPs, and salaries and travel expenses and everything else. Only one law firm, because it is obliged and it does the most dirty work for the City Assembly and participates in destroying citizens' interests. Fighting the SRS won't be easy. You're angry, you're sulking. Your attacks will get stronger, I'm sure of it. I see it, at the time of Milosevic's funeral we could see what the media would look like, we could see how NGOs, DS, DSS and everyone else controlled them in the same way. Let me ask you to tell me, here you are, Mr. Prophetic, because I don't see Aligrudic here, I ask you, you're a deputy, tell me how would you feel that, for example, God forbid, something bad happens to Vojislav Kostunica, that you're looking for a minute of silence and we're sitting in the hall? I'm asking you, do you think we could do it? Do you think after that, we could say by our newspapers and television that it's normal and beautiful, and that minutes of shame for those who, imagine, are crazy and get up for a minute of silence? Is that the campaign? I ask you how you would react if we were acting like this for Vojislav Kostunica. That's all I'm asking you and nothing else. And do you think we'd react that way, and we wouldn't, because we didn't react as much to what we think and much worse, like Zoran Djindjic, because it's so... And that's when I saw what kind of haika and haranga would go against all those who differ from you. We're prepared for it, and we'll prepare for it. I understand now what an election campaign will look like: all on one side and all against the SRS. Just one thing, don't forget. We don't underestimate the number of voters you're all going to win together. Do not underestimate whether something bigger, we hope will be a slightly larger part of Serbia to vote for freedom, to vote against crime, against corruption and to give its trust to Serbian radicals. Do not forget that this part of Serbia is not small, but huge and, unfortunately for you, unfortunately for your media, every day is getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24875	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. If I understand correctly, you find yourself misread by the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica of your exposure. Here you go, Mr. Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24876	I'm deeply convinced, Mr. Wolfie, that you know that Kostunica didn't get anything from the state. That's why I'm surprised you're bringing such a lie out here. I'm not even authorized, and there's no need to explain. I know how Kostunica is, wait slowly, I'll tell you, I know how he lived in Kostunica's market, I know how he got into Jovan's street. It's a family heirloom and you're lying, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24877	Mr. Simonovic, just pick the words, both of you. I'm talking about exposure to a pay phone. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, for the pay phone. Please, Mr. Simonovic... No, be kind, the president or the chairman takes care of the order. If he can't, there are funds. So it can be safe, because there are responsible MPs sitting here. I just warned you about the word I'm warning everyone. Please, Mr. Wolfie, of course I'll warn, because that's my job... You don't have to. )......................................................................................................... I'll do my job, and now you'll have a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24878	First of all, I don't want to put Mr. Simonovic in a difficult situation, I understand him. I don't have any problem, I don't want to insult him, and I don't want to use the kind of words he uses. I guess it offended him... Well, you wanted to deal with Markovic, which he told you to get your hands out of your pocket. You're about to swear, except you don't beat us, it's hard when only a man tells you to get your hand out of your pocket. (Velimir Simonovic: I swear? And we'll talk about that later. Don't be angry, that's all the MPs asked you to do, don't worry. I want to tell you something, I was talking about the way he got it; he did, but who he got the apartment from -- from the communist state, because he was a judge, why don't you say it, 204 squares. You're telling me about it, and you're telling me about it. Yes, I know, but I would never tell you that if you weren't looking for it this way to say it, because hundreds of thousands of people were getting it and it's not that problem. When you talk about lies, I'm ready to talk about lies. After we found out that I had told the truth and that I didn't lie, because that apartment did not bring fruit, but was brought by a communist society that shared people's apartments, someone bigger, someone smaller, responsible judges 200 square meters, and others less, etc. I'm saying, if you weren't like that, if you hadn't insisted on it, I'd never really talk about it and don't worry about it, I'll never return it in the same words, Professor, I don't think of it, which is why we're going to have to differ. I'm worried about one thing: how come when someone tells you something, it hurts so much that you have to act like one? You're about to put us on the Terrace since you came to power. There are no things you haven't said for us, for our families, there are no things you haven't thought of in the worst possible way against any of us. There's not that thing you didn't say and there's not that thing you didn't publish in your paper and on your dirty TV. That's the thing I'm asking you. So you were talking about Tomislav Nikolic's apartment, so you took that apartment away from him so he could buy a smaller apartment, and now it bothers you, 90 square meters. You want to move out? Come on, move out. Do you want to talk about it a little bit more? Do you have anything else? (Velimir Simonovic: I do. You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24879	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24880	You have Vuk Hamovic, professor, with dozens of millions of euros stolen from Serbian citizens, who you support and hold in power, who you have teachers, you have as many as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24881	Please do not throw away, allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24882	Not Draskovic, 700 apartments were divided, and 700 apartments were divided across the City Assembly, he and his family about 120, no, not 700. You are in a coalition, and you are in a good place, so you criticise the system, like this and like this, so please, socialists, let us rule a little longer. When you don't want the Socialists, come on you yellows back us up a little bit, let's all back us up because you're supposed to arrest us in Serbia right now. You're all moral giants and no one can tell you anything, so you're going to go out and say that someone's lying, just because they told the truth, because your idol is hurt like this and like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24883	Finish it, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24884	Excuse me, there are other people, there are others who want to hear about themselves and their family, not just listen to nonsense. When someone tells me, I will come to you with a rod to beat you in the congregation, and we say, "Well, come, we will wait for you here and here, and if you say so, then forgive me, we are threatening."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24885	Please don't throw away, and you, Mr. Wolfie, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24886	I asked Mr. Prophetic that question, and I am asking Mr. Aligrudić – how would you, Mr. Aligrudić, feel if I entered the O.R.... Good afternoon, and for us the day has long begun work, welcome. We have one question for you: how would you feel if, God forbid, something happened to Vojislav Kostunica and you were looking for a minute of silence and we were sitting in the hall? That's all I ask for an answer. We will, of course, stand for anyone, anytime, God forbid, that happens. I'm asking you how you'd feel, and nothing else, no other question, that's all I care about. It's not a political fact. I'm asking you for a human fact, for nothing else. You, professor, can insult as much as you want, insult yourself with these insults, because none of you in this National Assembly ever expected, but it's a good thing that you showed your face, too. In any case, it is good that we have established what is true and how much in the square is that truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24887	Thank you. Of course, there you are, MP Simonovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24888	If it's true, I want to tell you the following thing: he didn't get anything from Kostunica or his father from the communist regime. On the contrary, the political regime took away the house, which was not returned to the mother of Mr Kostunica. So, I just realized that you brought one lie here, and nothing else. I'm just wondering, Mr. President, when you or anyone is chairing, is there any way to protect us from all these insults that we're experiencing from the five-six MPs of the SRS? We've been listening to terrible insults for two years and putting up with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24889	Thank you. I will give you my word according to the Rules of Procedure, only to answer; you know that as soon as he asks, he will receive the word. So the only way the National Assembly can protect itself is for MPs to have self - respect, according to Article 104, to safeguard the dignity of the congregation and to address one another with dignity. All the rest, as you know, are warning measures, trying to make people understand once again that the citizens here chose them, of course they represent their party views, but to contribute, which is what MPs of all parties can do. I really have no intention, I understand what you're asking, Mr. Simonovic, to judge when someone from which party said something. So all MPs can contribute to the laws, because it is slow, but the only time that society can legally change. I believe everyone is capable of respecting it. Of course, sometimes passions get excited and then different words come out. I pray that at these moments people are not needlessly offended, for it is neither possible for a speaker to declare the truth, nor for a speaker to claim, without insulting the dignity of those who voted, that someone is a liar, a thief, or a criminal. That's why I'm making sure to warn the MPs on time. First according to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24890	The Honorable President, under Article 104, is not allowed to use offensive expressions as well as facts or assessments relating to the private life of other persons. The Prime Minister, of course, is one of the important institutions in Serbia. We must make certain assessments responsible when we talk about every institution in Serbia, including the Prime Minister. What I know and what most DSS MPs know, and we never hoped that such a debate would ever open up here, and I must say to you, Mr Vukic, and to the public in Serbia – what we know is that Mr Kostunica lived most of his life in the Skadarska 1 building in Belgrade. It's Grandpa Vojislav Kostunica's house, according to his mother. The largest part of that building was taken away in 1945, so he lived in this one apartment where he stayed to live and that apartment is now replaced by the same square he has. We don't know that the state of Vojislav Kostunica has given an apartment of 200 square meters. Please make that decision to the government or any state authority here and say Vojislav Kostunica has been given an apartment. Please show it. Is that insulting to you? Please, we have the right to protect the integrity of each of us, including the Prime Minister, don't be angry about it. We're not going to attack you, and we have no reason to attack you, so we're asking you not to use these intrigues with fiction. There's no need. (Alexander Vukic: You started with that.) If he did, I apologize for him. Don't use it and what you're doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24891	Please, before that I announced Mr. Wolfie's replica. Once again I warn you, the data on the property of the officials is publicly available, and it is not right in any way to investigate here for political reasons, originating from 20, 30 or 40 years ago, how do I know when any of you got an apartment and from whom? It's not right to talk about it at a pay phone, because that's what we're taking away the opportunity to talk about laws, and that's what we all stand for. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't threaten me, Mr. Aligrudic, and you don't have to threaten me by yelling at the others - now hit as you know and know, you want to roll, you want war or something. Don't do that. You have the right to a replica. I'll give you all day. I'm not afraid of you, man, or the whole government, or anything you can do, anything you can do. You can do whatever you want, you'll insult here, say the worst things possible, and he'll talk – lie, he'll talk about apartments. And you're sacred cows, you're loved by your mother, so no one can say anything to you, and you'll rule whatever you want and whatever you want, so imagine now, you can't tell us anything. We are now going to be one by one, we are going to be weaned, we are going to be ruling in Serbia and in what way we rule, and who, by whom the ministries are bought, who are criminals, who are businessmen, and how do they manage Serbia, and you tell, if these criminals are radicals or if we keep those criminals, then we are going to jail, I am giving you that opportunity. Now, I'm gonna do the wrinkles, because you say, now you're gonna roll, now you're gonna kick ass, now kick ass. Number one DSS criminal, Vuk Hamovic, what is he doing and what is he doing? Who's holding him? I see now they'll also get television frequencies. How does he work? By the way, I told the truth about the apartment of Vojislav Kostunica, as you lied about my apartment and the apartment of Tomislav Nikolic. (Velimir Simonovic, from the scene: I lied nothing. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24893	Please don't throw it away. Mr. Wolfie, feel free to line up within the replica, but please take care of the weather...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24894	I'm free, you don't think...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24895	Of course, take care of the weather, because I have to protect all MPs and I can't let you go over three minutes of replicas every time...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24896	... I don't know what else to do. I am scared, I'm already threatened by this pheasant counselor Boris Tadic that he'll come with a stick to kick me out, threaten me now Aligrudic, threaten me from here, threaten me from there, I don't know what else to do. I'm counting on no one to get me off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24897	Just respect the Rules of Procedure and take care of the weather. It's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24898	I don't care, what they get me doesn't bother me at all. I told you the truth, and that's what I told you, I would never have gotten into it if you hadn't become as dirty as the yellow ones and started to tell lies from this pay phone, and you're sulking, Mr. Aligrudic, all you want. First, ask who was first to start things like that, and then who gets it. Are we going to keep talking about criminals, talk about people who are directly related to the DSS regime and to those who run today, how many, Mr. Aligrudic, these great businessmen, don't you know? Well, you don't know, they don't even know Serbian citizens. It's just, the one holding the banks, one holding the power, one holding the oil, one not knowing what he's holding, when you're holding everything, well, the yellow one took something a little bit around the sport, where there's these mobs, they keep it yellow, and you watch it, however you want. We're in opposition, we've got nothing left, and neither will you when we beat you when we clean up those criminals. (Vukovous Tomašević, from the site: Little tomorrow.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24899	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24900	So these criminals... Whether it's tomorrow or much tomorrow, I don't know, but it's going to be at your election; whether it's tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or half a year, it doesn't matter, it's going to be your election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24901	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24902	Here's clear proof that it's not hard to make a circus out of the congregation. So, and so it's always known and it's very easy to determine who's doing it, the only thing that's kind of scrupulous so far was when it comes to the DSS, and obviously it's gone from now on. Therefore, if an MP has said something, I do not deny anyone the right to respond to it, but that later, in mutual replicas with other MPs, there is a circus about such a question, it is something that is extremely unacceptable to me. There may be your opinion that you know everything about criminals, that you have all the information that neither the prosecution nor the police have. I certainly admit to you that you have these abilities, which apparently neither the state authorities can have, and in the end, I believe you have filed criminal charges, as you certainly have, for the various people in this country, who are or are not founded, it can be seen in criminal proceedings. The problem, however, is that no one in this country (and I have advocated it beyond the borders of this country, but unfortunately, it was not possible to implement it politically until it is found guilty until a judicial verdict has proved it. Therefore, anyone from the ranks of the SRS or DSS against whom criminal charges are filed is not to blame until such evidence is proved by a judicial verdict. If we're talking about criminals, then we're giving a political qualification, Mr. Wolfich, based on something we think we're right, and it doesn't have to be true. You haven't heard from the DSS, when it comes to any other party, or even the Democratic Party, with which we have a lot of disputes and problems, when it comes to qualifications and such things, that we present this kind of qualification assessment. I said earlier that it was a matter of political manners and that's what you can see from this pay phone. You carry on like that, and we'll do different; so there's no reason to argue. Here in my hand, what you'll see after, are the criminal charges of some people who are now MPs. Those criminal charges were filed by the competent authorities on the basis of the information they had at the time. But I'm not going to tell anyone about those applications, or what it is, but I can simply say this: that's why, and for nothing, you're reporting for a replica, I don't think it can be the subject of a debate in the Serbian Parliament. And I mentioned that there's only a reason I'd try to contradict you and show how pointless it is to list the names of people I don't know at all. So you just said the name of Vuk Hamovic, and I heard about him as other Serbian citizens have heard, I don't know this man, so I have no idea. Secondly, what it says and what is the subject of these criminal charges is something that can't be a reason for anyone ever to have immunity in this Serbian assembly if it's on the list of parliamentary groups with respect and support for citizens. So that's what the basic thing is. Not to mention the other things you mention. So I'm asking you best to get out of the way of business and call criminals in other people's ranks, because that's what we've never done before, so I'm asking you not to do it either. Secondly, there are MPs in our party who are able to sometimes say something that may be crossing the line of someone's taste, but it's their own thing. It is your right, if it is personal to you, when you are called, to react, but I ask you most nicely not to transfer the discussion that is being conducted here to the level of parliamentary groups and political parties, because I think it is extremely inappropriate. In that sense, I urge you to return to the agenda and continue the discussion of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24903	Thank you. Please, therefore, everything is fine, once again, in order to be clearer than what Mr Simonović asked – according to Article 105, on the agenda of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly is ageing for what is at his disposal, but also, on the basis of Article 111, if the President of the National Assembly cannot maintain order at the session, he will set the time-out needed to establish order. I sincerely hope that there will be no need for that, because the MPs will take care of it. Mr. Krasic, did you stay in touch with your report to the Rules of Procedure? You're giving up? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24904	I figured this out, you saw how our country works today. I don't mind, did you come with us to fight? You're going to attack us, let me get a criminal report, now I'm going to go out for a pay phone. Here I am not going to talk about others, I'm going to talk about myself, Mr. Aligruditch. There are 40 criminal charges against me, which are criminal charges, which are charges, which are lawsuits. Do you know who they are? I'll hardly remember everyone. I don't hide it at all. Well, I'm not very smart either, I can't remember everyone. I have seven cases of Canet Subotic, I have several Vuk Hamovics. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Do you know who Vuk Hamović is? )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24905	Please don't throw it away, and you, Mr. Krassic and you, Mr. Aligrudic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24906	Krasic, man, he didn't say a word now. But I don't mind. And then he says, "He is not guilty of it either." Is it because of what Djelic endured for the bonuses that the workers were getting, and they found in the investigation that they were the only ones who were getting, I don't know what? But for what? What you don't know when you got, I know, so here's what I'm saying. Radovanchev's animal, unhappy, almost condemned by the workers for getting bonuses. You want me to tell you what it looks like? Here's the thing: it's given out bonuses for nine months to workers of 1,300,000 in 12 months, and it's given them 300,000 in our time for workers, and at the time of the transitional government where your minister, DOS, socialist and SPO are taking part 900,000, they're not going after us, they're going after us. We didn't take it for us. We took it for the workers. So Krasic shared something with his own brother, and there is no man born. That's what they did, and that's what you do. Is that what you're going to tell us, is that what you're going to threaten here? Come on, then take these actions, let's see what you do. What's wrong with them? In one way or another, yes, so you'll be threatening arrests. What kind of Democrats are you, when political opponents tell you something, you're going to arrest, right? We were scared alive. I won't be able to sleep with you and your criminal charges tonight. I promise you, Mr. Aligrudic, since you have now shown what you are and have shown your true face both as a party and as a system... As soon as it comes from the executive authorities, and from the courts, it sues; and We have brought it, and now we will make you afraid. You didn't scare us at all. Now, I'm going to speak louder and more clearly to you than ever, how I feel about your authority. And for the afternoon, I'm making you a big surprise. I'm bringing you a stunt like this, but not criminal charges for labor stamps, but criminal charges for bonuses for people in power. Then it's going to be a little bit different, and then people are going to have a chance to listen. I'm not afraid of your criminal charges, I've got a few procedures coming to an end, and I'm expecting convictions soon, they can be like this and like that, and I'm not afraid of your prisons either. But, for God's sake, beware of justice, not that the heads of parliament like Ceda Jovanovic, and you, you read here and try to scare off political opponents. It's so miserable and so pathetic, and to remind you, whoever did it the same way as you did today, you were in custody yesterday. I'm sure that's never gonna happen to you, but I'm also sure there's gonna be a true democratic power that won't scare his political opponents, but he's gonna arrest criminals, Mr. Aligrudic, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24907	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24908	Do you see what a typical replacement of thesis looks like? So I say one thing, and a man responds to something completely different, which I didn't say, and achieves its political effect. I've just said all the opposites that Mr. Alexander Vukitch was talking about. I was talking about that right from this pay phone that other people shouldn't be calling for anything, that it's not the subject of debate in this assembly. I've shown it for only one reason, that there are a million such things, both from the former regime and from those before, that even individuals can file private criminal charges against other people and that's not a thing that can be binding on anyone without a judicial verdict. That's the point of my message. And you made this a circus. Of course, that's why I've shown so far how irrelevant it is for us, not that we scare anyone, Mr. Wolfie, you know very well that none of us have the capacity to arrest anyone, nor did we bring anyone in yesterday or the day before. Nor do the Messengers do it, nor are they in office, in the system to divide the power to do so. Neither can you, nor can we in the ruling coalition. But you see, you need any reason to go out for a pay phone and to extend your political agitation. I don't argue with you, but this is probably one of the latest announcements by the Democratic Party of Serbia on your statements. So from now on, you can talk about whatever you want, we're just not going to get into what you want, and that's a certain kind of conflict that's totally wrong, which has nothing to do with the agenda point that we have today and consists of a game of broken phones. So, you're telling me one thing, I'm telling you the other, we're not talking about the same thing at all, and then when you go out for a pay phone, with a lot of laughter, spreading your hands and, of course, confidence, you're saying that I said something I didn't say. After all, it's possible to talk like that, but it looks like you'll only talk to yourself because you won't talk to me any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24909	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. According to Article 105, ten minutes of time to calm down passion, and downfalls and accusations, and we'll continue immediately after ten minutes, there's no reason. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. Prior to the break-up of the replica, MP Aleksandar Vukic reported for the replication of Mr Aligrudic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24911	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the day of the threat of the highest authorities in Serbia to the only opposition representatives in our country, therefore, after the day of pressure, explain how the stick will solve things again, the fact that these arguments serve enough to talk about power, enough to talk about the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia, but also about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, I guess, serves in its impotence with the same means. I don't mind the fact that they're threatening the poles, and the poles are for people, even some kind of counsellor for Mr. Tadic's fecal questions... That's what he called himself, he said, I quote -- it's a stick wet in some kind of biological substance, an unpleasant smell, or I don't know what it is, so I'm counting on him to specialize, because I could never think up so successfully and nicely until today, where we experienced that nothing can be said about our political opponent. Because you can say anything that you can think of about Alexander Vukic or any other Serbian radical, which is common, which is normal, which is nice to write about what you want and what you want, but if someone answers you and tells you about Vojislav Kostunica or anyone else, that's the moment when "smacking" and "smacking." This was a quote, respected citizens and respected MPs. Then you think that "sniffing" is going with something, but it's going with what they've been saying for six, seven years, nothing new, usual, and there's nothing left of "sniffing." We can talk and we've talked about it here a hundred times. We were talking about the way it works. Mr. Aligrudić, to this day I've appreciated you, you couldn't find one single thing, even though we're political opponents, that I said something about you personally bad or about some other people from your party. Mr. Aligrudić, I ask of you, as I am openly going out and I say, I am not a judge, nor a prosecutor, but I mean, based on what I own or have, that you and these criminals are and I'm not afraid to say it, and I'm asking you, Mr. Aligrudić, since you're for "smacking" and "smacking" all of this, I'm asking if Alexander Vukic was stealing money or anything else, any of the MPs or representatives of the SRS? If it is, go out and say it. If you say so, I won't go out and answer you. If you say it's true, I'm leaving the National Assembly right now and I'm not going to be an MP anymore. I'll leave it to you. You have a chance to say that, if that's true, just to say what it is, did we steal votes, did we steal money, did we steal anything? I make it clear to you by the name and last name of who I think and what I think. I even try not to respond to the most serious insults that come from Mr Simonovic and some others, because I understand Mr Simonovic, his injury, etc. I'm asking you to tell me that. As far as I'm concerned, I'll keep telling criminals the worst. Maybe if criminals deal with us, maybe they'll do whatever they want and whatever they want, maybe those worst criminals in Serbia will come back to power again, with your support, one way or another, anything is possible, maybe they'll arrest innocent people again, maybe 13,000 people again. I didn't want to ask you, do you mean those criminals, not for criminal charges, but for those who were arrested, that they were criminals? Not that I didn't say it and I didn't say it, but I don't think so. That's what I'm saying. (President: please finish. If someone told me that Aca Tomic is a criminal, I'd spit him in the face, it's funny. You're going out here, and I'm going to scare him. I don't want to sleep over it tonight. The only thing I can tell you, probably the rest of the radicals, is I guarantee you one thing: against those people we talked about, we'll continue the hunt of justice and the chase of truth, because criminals are the place in prison, not honest people. Mr. Aligrudic, that's our answer to your "smacking" and "smacking" as you've announced. The fight against crime must be stronger in Serbia than ever. We Serbian radicals against corruption and crime will also know how to fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24912	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24913	Article 104. When I'm with someone, I always like to come from what I'm comfortable with, because it's kind of the nicest thing. I agree with this last one. The duty of this society or state is to fight every type of crime, especially organised crime in the country. There's no need at least for someone, as an MP, to remind me of that. I've seen it as my duty from the beginning, only the question of what my power is to influence it from these benches. Of course, there are those state authorities in the system to divide the authorities who have greater responsibility for such a thing. As before, I call upon them to do everything possible to question anyone for whom there is reasonable doubt, and for whom there is reasonable doubt, that criminal charges are filed against him. However, when you use such expressions as "moaning" or something else here, these are not expressions used for this speaker; you may have heard it in the towers or in the congregation benches. They may have been spoken to me in another context, but I don't think (I think we have the wrong understanding of things here and that's all I've come up for) in the context that you wanted to show or how you had it wrong. In the end, I never called anyone a criminal in this House. I never think of doing this to any MP in the National Assembly, not because I can't or can't, since it's proven that there's no fear of it here, because there's no consequences for it that I can't reach anyone, but simply because I don't want to, which I'm not. There is only one person I have dared to cross that line so far, when it comes to and when it comes to a particular type of crime, which is about this home directly, which is the mixing of Bogoljub Karic in the parliamentarian life of Serbia, which we have seen so far has achieved a certain effect, of course, not enough to change the political reality in the elections, but that man was trying to do so. We were reacting then, and I admit, I crossed this line, this limit I speak of as my principle, but I had a very, very good reason for it, because that reason was directly related to this home, this is being called by Parliament and all of us sitting here. So I would never use that type of qualification outside that context. Let me tell you right now, I'm not sorry about it today, not even today, when it comes to Mr. Bogoljub Karic and his criminally motivated political impulses.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24914	The People's Messenger Vladimir Milankov has the word, and the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24915	Mr. President, the honourable members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, after an hour and a half of unnecessary debate, again, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. The basic law was passed in the spring of 2003, and before that, the same law was passed in this congregation in 1996. It's just saying that this area that we want to regulate again is a very important social area and that, as some call it, is the momentum of Serbia's economy. The momentum of Serbia's economy, not without a basis, because, let's remember, before the collapse of the former SFRY 900,000 people lived on account of construction and construction areas, such as construction materials production and other service activities. There's even a hundred of them. Just to mention that at the end of the 1980s and early 90s, the amount of funding that was made out of this activity was equal to the amount of funds that the former Yugoslavia was making out of tourism, and these were not small funds. The decline in activity in construction is recorded during the 1990s and not to compare the war years in the early 1990s. The second half of the 1990s, statistics say, at least in the apartment, that some 5,000-7,000 housing units were built in Serbia, that the construction of public-purpose buildings had completely stopped, so that construction was in a rather unfavourable position. After 90 years of law-making, in the last two or three years... For the sake of comparison, I will give the information that today and in the last two or three years the level of residential units built in Serbia is between 14,000 and 16,000. Unfortunately, half of it is in Belgrade, and that's what many MPs before me mentioned today, to fight for it to be more dispersed, to make the improvement of construction and urbanism feel in other parts of Serbia. In the last two or three years, the intensive development of road traffic, telecommunications has begun, and all of you have noticed the embellishment and arrangement of particularly central city streets, squares, and this is indeed a major shift compared to the last ten years. The law improved the investment climate, gave security in the area of construction, but the problem that certainly exists is the property-legal status of city building land and an unregulated register, i.e. an immobility cadastre. In talks with colleagues and representatives of the ministry, the area will be resolved by joint forces, through a law that will soon be before this assembly, which is the law on city building land. Normally, the catastra needs many people from the profession and new funds for these purposes. The 2003 law may have been too late to pass, such as the late amendments and additions to the laws that come on the agenda only in 2006. I'm just going to tell you that the 2003 law foresaw 19 sublegal acts. Of these 19 sublegal acts, only five were passed, and that is one of the shortcomings of that basic law. However, the basic law has brought a lot of good innovation into the establishment of a professional organisation - Engineering Chamber, in the establishment of a Spatial Planning Agency. He brought the paper that plans and urban plans can work for private authorised persons and agencies; deadlines for covering the planning documentation of certain areas and regions are set, but we also know that these deadlines are prescribed as unrealistic and this is a bad feature of the law. The 2003 law introduced the practice of the right to traffic, i.e. the right to use city building land. It is largely in function throughout Serbia. A legalisation procedure has been initiated, because so many illegally built objects in Serbia exist and there has been a modus for an adequate solution to this problem and, what is not irrelevant, there are criminal sanctions for perpetrators, i.e. for builders of illegal objects in Serbia. What is bad in the 2003 law, and it certainly has a lot of bad effects on the law, is that it originally did not make a register of these illegally built objects, so the previous minister bid a figure between 700,000 and a million such objects, in order to make only 400,000 investors submit. What's very important, the Spatial Planning Agency didn't give so much effect, since it didn't live well itself, there was a blockage of the agency's work, and it's very important and I hope that these changes and additions will work in the right sense. As I said, sublaws were not passed, and this confused not only the people of the profession, the builders, but also those whose life was particularly important was part of the Law on Legalization. Resuscitation of the planning documents is not adequate as planned by law. A hundred reparations for the use of city building land for people who applied for almost nowhere have been charged, not even in local self-government, although this is consistent with the Constitution and the law, as the original jurisdiction of local self-government is to manage city building land. What is very important and hurts most citizens who have illegally built facilities is the status of these facilities in terms of municipal connections. There are public enterprises that deliver sanitary water, electricity, on their own and assess their responsibility, since the same criminal provision is provided for if they are doing so; as we heard earlier, in Smederjevo such facilities did not join the electricity, water and other municipal routes, and in most cases they did. It's some kind of ad hoc solution that can't be left to such a case. What 52 amendments and additions are made in the basic law of 2003: they are based on a better organisation and more efficient work of the Spatial Planning Agency, they refer to the content of urban plans and projects themselves, and then to a greater possibility of public participation, both public and professional, through insight into the planning documentation. These objections made by citizens through the insight into the planning documentation go before the committees of local self-government and this is further under consideration. Normally, there is an extended professional possibility for people with higher professional training to participate in the management and be direct heads of the construction site, which is certainly a newspaper, and they have been denied for the last three years. (President: Please, please keep the MPs quiet, if there are necessary conversations, they do not have to be carried out in the O.R. Please allow the speaker to be heard. ) So, continuing the legalization process of illegally raised objects. To be here and descriptive, so to say that this kind of legalisation of illegally raised objects exists only in Europe and Turkey, that somehow all other countries in the region, including Bulgaria and Romania, did not allow such an amount of illegally built objects. Currently, only we and the Turks have this problem that we need to solve in this way and we have a big dilemma that this big life problem, which bothers close to a million people in Serbia, is to be resolved. I think these changes allow one acceptable modality for both the profession and the citizens. Now I would like to talk about the effects that should bring these changes and additions, which is certainly to simplify procedures and that they are more specific, in the sense that citizens know how to act before the authorities they apply to. It's one of the effects of the law, so citizens can intervene to address the lack of planning documentation. It's one security thing, especially when it comes to spatial plans, where the state controls and controls these documents, and that's particularly true... The spatial plans cover, again, to return to large utility infrastructure facilities, and that is road traffic, and that has certainly been a stumbling block so far. I'm just going to tell you that the construction of many routes has not started, even though they are budget-covered and covered with technical documentation, for these very reasons. A better climate for investors and building security is the core of these changes and additions. It is up to us to follow the effects of this law on the ground and to participate greatly, both as MPs and as a profession, in creating a new law, because we must respond in time if irregularities occur and if the effects of this law do not produce the desired results.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24916	Thank you, Mr. Milankov. There have been some changes in order. Instead of the MP of the people Branislav Rankic, who will not participate, will be the messenger of the people Milos Disic. Instead of MP Rajko Baralic, who may later, if there is no time left, will be MP Milisav Petronijevic. Then in that order now. The first word is the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic, then the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic, and then the People's Messenger Milos Disic. Another notice on how to work. Today we will be working until the end of the fifth item of the agenda - the law on amendments and amendments to the Mining Act, and on Friday, if we can finish the debate tomorrow, two debates, in which case there will be no session and the session will be continued on Monday, so that you can plan your activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister isn't present, because I wanted to direct something personal to the minister as a member of the government. Namely, the proposal ahead and which we are considering today arrived at the Assembly on 21 October 2005. So, six months of this is in the process, and the minister says it's a very important and important law, so I'm interested in why it didn't come to the agenda much earlier. There's a reason for that, too. In fact, several previous months, the government of the Republic of Serbia spent on the ground. She didn't do her job, she worked in villages in the royal and Smederjevo municipality, where local elections were scheduled, where it was at any cost to win her candidate. Minister Ilic visited villages by Smederev and the King, promised everything and everything or, to be more precise, he deceived the citizens into doing to them and what they themselves could not dream of. It is an old practice by Mr. Ilic, as earlier in late 2001, in the additional elections in a village in the municipality of Bajina Basta, he came to promote his candidate and promised the people the way there. The candidate won, and the minister no longer showed up, nor was there any of that time. The other thing that is interesting here is a large number of amendments submitted by one party that is in the ruling majority, which is in the congregation's majority. G17 plus submitted 16 amendments with the same text – deleted. Sixteen members of the proposed amendments to the law, they seem to be erasing and I'm interested in how you can possibly vote this bill if not even part of your coalition is for this, if something doesn't change until the act of voting. I'm going to make a few principle remarks on this proposal. You've heard the SRS won't vote for this, but we'll say what we don't think is right and what should change anyway. First, this existing Law on Planning and Construction predicted that within six months of the adoption of the law (in November 2003, the deadline expired) spatial plans in municipalities were adopted. It means that all municipalities adopt their spatial plans so that they can continue to develop urban plans for certain locations for which the municipality assesses the need to work urban plans. I'm interested in whether the government, or the Ministry of State, has information on how many municipalities have adopted spatial plans so far, because I doubt that a large number of municipalities have made no spatial plans at all, and have set out urban plans. I don't think it makes sense, and I think it should have gone in this order that the law predicted: first, to make spatial plans in each municipality, with agreement with the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, and then to go into the development of urban plans for certain areas for which the municipality estimates that these urban plans should be done. In fact, a member of the 170th Law says that the area in which the urban plan is not being carried out, the municipal administration issues urban conditions in accordance with the spatial plan, according to the spatial plan of the issue of urban conditions. I'm interested now in how urban conditions will be issued if there is no such spatial plan at all. So, a zone of the area where no urban plan is planned. It remains unclear whether a new deadline has been set for the development of a spatial plan for municipalities. There's no mention of anything here. In the current law, it remains for six months. Whether these six months have been in force since the adoption of these amendments or if the deadline has already expired and whether these municipalities that have not done so without spatial plans remain, because the second position of this member has been deleted, which has left the Ministry's competence to do spatial plans for municipalities that have not completed the job. Also, I would like to mention one problem that appears probably in several municipalities on the ground, and that is the problem of inter-municipal co-operation in drawing up these planning documents. Namely, many municipalities have a problem that the settlement, a tourist resort on the border of the two municipalities; one common plan for the settlement or tourist resort should be worked, not that every municipality works for itself, without any coordination. That's, unfortunately, happening. I will set an example of the mountain of Tara, i.e. the settlements of Kaludjerska Bare, where the road passing through the settlements of the border between the two municipalities, between the municipality of Bajina Basta and the municipality of Užica. The road was separated by two municipalities, but this road is also the center of a tourist resort, a place. Bajina Basta municipality is making a regulatory plan for its part, and the municipality of Užice does not work for its part. How to coordinate the development of this tourist resort, if there is no agreement and co-operation between these two municipalities? I think that in the government and the ministry, some measures should be taken to bring it into line, but this is not done, because the Bajina Basta municipality is obviously in the final phase of adopting a regulatory plan for the Kaludjerska Bara settlement. What I would also like to point out here as a remark, says this, Article 8 of this proposal: "In the spatial plan of the municipality, before publication, the agreement of the Minister responsible for spatial planning affairs is obtained, in order to determine the compliance of the plan with other planning documents, this law and regulations adopted under the law. "I am interested now that one minister, just as well as that he is professional, which this one is not able to check, agree and coordinate the spatial plans for 150 or more municipalities, as many as we have in Serbia. I think it's also physically impossible, not to mention the very expertise of the minister. Namely, this business of control and reconciliation can also be done in an indirect manner, through a committee of plans, in which the minister has a number of members he appoints and who should rightly represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia and control whether the plans of municipalities are in agreement with the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, there is an urban inspection that can intervene in any of these cases. Article 12 states: "The President and members of the Commission", and we are talking about the Committee on Plans that each municipality should have, "are named from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of spatial planning and urbanism and other areas which are important for the performance of professional tasks in the area of planning and planning and construction. One-third of the commission members are appointed by the minister responsible for the affairs of urbanism and construction" etc. I have to say that there are problems in the field, in the municipalities, because in small municipalities there are not enough professional personnel in the municipality itself to be named from that environment. The minister appoints that third of the commission members from neighbouring municipalities. What's going on? These people are not motivated and interested enough to participate in the work of these commissions, and then the commission comes down to that political part that has been named by the same parent municipality. That part of the commission is mostly political. It is called the congregation’s majority, not competent enough and professional enough to make valid decisions. This exists as a problem and this problem needs to be solved, and in which way I don't know, but the Ministry has to find an answer whether these people are motivated enough or not, as well as to monitor their presence with these session committees for plans, so if they don't come to change them and find other people who will be motivated to come to committee meetings. I already said, in small municipalities, and probably in all municipalities, that part of the commission appointed by the local administration is mostly political. Perhaps there was something to be said in that sense, so that, even though they are political, they are people who are professional in these matters. We have examples that people who have nothing to do with this profession are in these commissions, because they are part of the ruling majority that exercises power in local communities. Article 18 speaks of a committee which, after public debate and public insight into the plans set out in local environments, should submit a report on the objections addressed by citizens or other interested parties. What doesn't make sense to me here is changing the position of the existing law, in Article 53; it was there that all objections should be entered into the report and that the commission would declare itself, i.e. to give an opinion on any objections. However, only accepted objections are now entered into the commission's report and are given a view on these remarks. This attitude is clear as soon as they are accepted, and I think it is better and smarter that what is in the existing law – that all objections sent by citizens and interested persons enter the report, and the commission will declare them and give views that it accepts, which it does not accept. Article 22 of the amendment refers to Article 59; it refers to urban conditions, complaints and complaints about the solution, no mention of the deadline. We're coming back to the situation that the administration is going to drag and stall these procedures, which is bad and what needs to be changed. Wherever it relates to the authorities of local self-government, or republican, it is necessary to give deadlines for individual actions, so that this business runs as quickly as possible. The next thing you know is legalization. In fact, the intensity of this law is also to legalise objects that can be legalized, which have been built without necessary documents and without a building permit. What is not good here is that the procedure is given as the applications are made, are given deadlines within which the authorities comply with the requirements, however, is not a precise deadline for issuing a building permit, or use. All other deadlines are specified, but this deadline, when it comes to this and when the complete procedure is complied with, the period for issuing the permit is not specified either for construction or for use. I'm saying again, there's still a chance that this procedure will go on forever. I have to replicate to Mrs. Bosniak in some way, she said that legalization is an abolization. It's not legalization. Legalization gets papers or permits for what was done without permission, but you don't get that without a certain fee. Citizens pay compensation for it, and in most cases it's not their fault that they were forced to do it without permission. In most cases, it is the fault of the authorities of local self-government or of some other authorities that have been competent or that some previous actions should have been completed and that they have urban plans based on which appropriate permits will be issued, which they have not done. So legalization is just giving proper paper to people, with the right fee, no one gets it for free. Finally, Article 51 allows citizens who have failed to apply for legalisation within the time limit laid down by the basic law to do so. However, I think it is quite meaningful, and the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment in this sense, to extend the deadline until the day of adoption of these changes. Perhaps someone has stayed for legitimate reasons and has not applied for legalisation within the deadline of 13 November 2003, why now to deny it if we are already talking about some opportunities to help citizens, that all those who are in dispute and do not have the approval to build it within the time of the adoption of the law. After all, yesterday we talked here about the law on amnesty, where amnesty, or youths who avoided military service, avoided those obligations prescribed by law. There are citizens of the front row, because they're free of any responsibility, and now we don't allow citizens here who didn't apply just until a certain date and they can never do it again. Let us give them one more chance to extend this deadline to the day of adoption of this law, these amendments, and that even citizens who did not do so within that deadline of the previous law can now do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24918	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. As we have said, first of all, the Messenger of the People, Ivica Dacic, and then the Messenger of the people, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24919	Dear President, respected citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, I hope that we have cleared up, although we are not yet criminally and legally and formally, with those affairs of Bodrum and the vote from Thessaloniki, from Bodrum, but I would ask, Mr. President, that you stop for a moment and that we determine one fact. On your right-hand monitor at 16, someone like this is present, and there is no such thing in the O.R.; Natasa Micic, her name is recorded as being in the O.R. So, please determine who believes or does not believe some view, I ask that at this point be determined on the basis of an electronic record of whether Natasa Micic is in the O.R. and how it is possible that she is in the O.R., and is not presently missing, nor is her card inserted into the card inserting unit. Mr. President, please, if anyone's used to... I hope you promised that, and I trust you, that the Bodrum affair and the Thessaloniki affair will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24920	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Please, just a moment, I fully understand that you reminded the Rules of Procedure of what I read about in the papers, and later it was court- established – that at the time of the vote there was abuse of cards in the previous session. I think it is quite clear that this has not happened and that it will not happen as long as responsible people take care, and these are the heads of all parliamentary groups and the leadership of the Assembly. But, please, today is no day to vote. All right, be nice, I'm looking forward, and I'm talking about things that are happening behind you, you who are looking here, that's right, Mrs. Micic came in a dozen minutes ago and I'm welcoming Mr. Dragan Jovanovic's gesture that gave her a place to sit, I guess because she usually sits in that place. We all know that in the days when it is not voting day, often, because it does not cancel by voting, it remains visible as the cards present, please, but it does not in any way affect the work of the Assembly. That's the first thing. The second thing, please also check, you can read whose card was inserted, but it is very important after the identification when entering the session hall, which is a requirement under the Rules of Procedure, after determining the quorum of 84 to start working day, it is not even necessary to hold or hold a card, it has been repeatedly warned by several MPs, and most often, I think, those MPs who were left behind - insert the card, insert the card. So it doesn't affect any way of working, and I have no reason to interrupt work now and to determine it. First of all, Mr. Vucic's office, please come in. (Ivica Dacic, from the scene: You have to ask me if I am satisfied with the explanation. I'm sorry if you're pleased, but I'd be happy to ask if you've told me which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and since you're not, I don't know why. (Ivica Dacic, from the scene: The entire Rules of Procedure has been broken. All right, thank you. Are you happy? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we know what this is about, is not the second card inserted; I will say from this pay phone what it is about the public and the citizens of Serbia, because of the otherwise incredible inventions that appear in the media that control the "yellows" and what they do. So, Mr. President of the National Assembly, the next thing you know, Natasa Micic entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hall, inserted a card, which is anyway, but until she inserts the card, she can't pick up the diary, so she came to pick up the diary. She put in a card and went right out. But what happened next, she took the card, but how did she get the card out? Sadon that ordinary citizens don't know, which may not be clear to them. When you just take and draw a card like this, you're no longer registered in the MP's unit, but if you pull out slowly and rely on the walls of the MP's unit, it'll stay as if it's there. Why are they doing this? Let's just say, when they ran an analysis of which of the MPs was as much as there, it turned out, for example... We're in opposition, so we don't usually put cards in, and they're counting on cards in the MP's unit how much time we spent in this room. My card is almost never there, except when I answer the word, so it would say that I may have spent five minutes in the Assembly since the beginning of this term. Then it turned out that the Shutanovac, these or they spent more in the Assembly than we did, and I spent more at the pay phone, say, me, not talking about how much Toma Nikolic or Verica, Natasa, Moma and the others who go out and speak, but all those from the Democratic Party together in the Assembly. But they do this the next way: they slowly pull out the card and it turns out they sit here all the time, even though their parliamentary benches are empty. We do not insert cards, and then their dirty newspapers say, "There is no radical in the hall, they do nothing, and they kill themselves by doing what they do." That's what fraud is all about. I had to go out, not because you hurt the Rules of Procedure at this point, but to say how and how all the dirty tricks are used and how all the pranks are able to be served, and then ask some of our MPs, people read the newspaper, so they say, "Well, you're never in the Assembly, so these opponents of yours work all the time." You know how they work? He comes in for a minute, puts in a card, slowly pulls it out, comes out, doesn't have it in the O.R. all day long, doesn't know what's on the agenda, doesn't know if we killed ourselves here, fought, worked one way or another, no easy connections. He's been working all day, and we've been working for five minutes, because we're the opposition and because we don't put cards in. Even these tricks were used through their dirty media, because there are no things they will not serve to wrong their political opponents. There's no dirt they can't make that they can't do. It's something that really has to come up with the worst conviction. You see, you, Mr. President, were convicted the day before yesterday as a fascist statement by the adviser on fecal issues, Boris Tadic, who threatened the poles. Please, I didn't say anything funny. The man introduced himself like that. The man insisted on being in charge. You heard my reaction, Mr. President, when I agreed with your opinion that it was a fascist statement, I even said it – well, if it's such a brave counselor for fecal questions, let him come in front of the National Assembly, beat us with a stick. Then they called their journalists and editors and told them – now write down how Vukić physically threatened him. It wasn't the Wolf that threatened the poles, not the fecal or the infectible, it was him. I just said I'd defend myself, so he says he doesn't hit his wife and kids. I'm both a grandmother, and an aunt, and a wife and a child, whatever you want; you don't think a woman and children are going to beat each other, you don't mean in parliament to beat a woman and children, I don't know what a man means. It's these dirty tricks they serve, that's the dirt, that's what poor little worms do, of course, metaphorically speaking. It's the only thing they can do, it doesn't matter what color they are, they're usually yellow, but there are other colors. Those who got out of that pole, Mr. President, that's what it looks like to me. Here, once again to tell them, it's not good, I don't want to answer them in those children's ways, because they've been coming up with these pathetic answers all night, anyway, and I'm not going to answer them anyway. I just want to tell them, and also to you here: whoever thinks that beatings solves something, that by burning down television and the Assembly continues in Serbia, whoever thinks he's dealing with political opponents like that, that he's ticking, breaking up, or I don't know what, it's not going to go well. Every stick, unfortunately, has two ends. Perhaps, fortunately, however you wish. (President: Please bring the end of the exhibition. I'm bringing the end, Mr. President. I invite you, Mr. Markovic, to continue with the joint forces to deal with the frauds, the fores, but also with the fascist ideology that is spreading from the building across the street, because I completely agreed with your statement. I really think that we need to get in the way of fascism and we need to take it seriously, even if it's just about being a guidance counselor on fecal issues. Because a fascist statement is a fascist statement and we have to win it together. I expect full support from you, Mr Markovic, and in that sense, the termination of such tricks by the Democratic Party and some other MPs, where God's public will present themselves to do something and do nothing. They only came for the diary and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24922	A few things, as an explanation. I understand. They speak for the pay phone and send political messages. What is clear to all MPs, I hope it is clear to the citizens, is that here in the Assembly they are sitting, not just at the session, so the representatives of the citizens are sitting. That's why this is called the National Assembly. We have said several times, please, fortunately, that the people in Serbia are different and have a right, so there is freedom of speech, that they represent different opinions and that they vote on their own conscience. Of course, if it is clear to the citizens, both during the transfer and during public appearances, what and how MPs represent, they can change that view. At the leadership of the Assembly, therefore to representatives of professional services, the president representing all of you is to create and to take care of equal working conditions. In comparison, it is possible that all of this is what you say, but the conditions are equal that throughout the building, MPs decide in their own way to work. I do not mention the names of the parliamentary groups, but if I have to make it clear: the same conditions are for the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr Dusan Petrovic, and Vice-President, or Vice-President of the Democratic Party Group, Mr Goran Svilanovic, and members of the parliamentary group and members of the group, as has happened with other parliamentary groups, have left and are now independent MPs, such as Mrs Micic. In contrast, all of them, like all MPs of other parliamentary groups, exercise their rights, or represent their parliamentary group, are then the president or deputy president of the parliamentary group, so, Mr Petrovic or Mr Svilanovic, they appear, represent themselves, the same as Mr Nikolic or Mr Vucic, or Mr Aligrudic or Mr Prophetovic. Simply, every party and parliamentary group has secured it, and it is clearly regulated. The president of the assembly can't react to what's written in the papers, so these are MPs presently absent, but it's mine to explain, it's possible, there's quite a possibility that there's a motivation that you're talking about, but I can't take care of it. I'm just saying that Mrs. Micic, I saw, entered earlier, it didn't affect the work of the Assembly, nor the vote; Mr. Jovanovic, as her senior and multi-year-old colleague, took her place, I thank him for it, as a gentleman's gesture. Whether or not she put in a card or not, it doesn't matter, because the vote, except this morning when it's controlled, doesn't affect the work of the Parliament during the day. Here, you can see that now. Of course, you all know, here, if you want the quorum. And as you can see, as long as the cards are not inserted, only those present will not be visible, in the 16th row, as you can see, at this point there is no card. During the vote, because you all agreed and I only represent your opinion, there will never be another voice theft in parliament. Therefore, only those cards where MPs are actually present are visible during the vote after each vote. And I thank you for that. When it comes to different statements, I once again said, I did not comment on anyone's concrete statements, because I personally didn't hear them and I don't know what quality they were given. It's mine to believe or not to believe the word, so I checked and asked you personally if you were quoting or paraphrasing, so you told me you were quoting. In contrast, regardless of function and origin, all those who want to break up the National Assembly, not in the way that the composition of the National Assembly is changed -- elections, but in some forced way, made those statements as citizens, officials, they advocate to end parliamentary democracy in an illegal and violent way. You know, parliamentary democracy then always replaces itself with someone's dictatorship or authority, and parliamentary democracy, that's what children at school are learning, many of us haven't learned it, is the least bad of all systems of government. And this society has been defined, all democratically-oriented parties, and these are all parties that are in this House, because they are represented in a democratic way here, that we never again try something that is a common challenge – let's go to dictatorship in a moment; then it leads directly to fascism. This directly leads to the destruction of people who live in one territory and who do not live. I think we've made this clear, there's no reason, please have an understanding, Mr. Dacic. We'll finish the morning work if it's not crucial. Yeah, okay. So, then we'll give Mr. Dacic a word, and after this, I hope that the general understanding, clarifications will be given to both the MPs and the citizens, and after Mr. Dacic's words, the work will be continued today at 15.00 hours. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24923	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't mean to upset the spirits here at all. I just wanted to figure out something that happened here. I had no intention of saying that something illegal was going on in this assembly by the chairman of the assembly, I just wanted to make a point... And I want to commend you here that you are one political wizard, because you are one move at a time, so suddenly Natasa Micic, who was present in the O.R., suddenly disappeared from the O.R. Anyway, I just wanted to help you know. Natasa Micic was the president of this parliament, Natasa Micic introduced a state of emergency in Serbia; if Natasa Micic is being used today by being present in the hall, and in fact, not everyone could see, and I hope TV cameras recorded it, then it is a confirmation of what was done. When she can do that when she's sitting in the 16th row and she's out of power, what they were just doing when she was working in your place and when they were in power. Thank you for letting me abuse this time, I didn't abuse the pay phone, I think what I said helped Parliament work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24924	Thank you, thank you all for understanding. So, once again, I hope that everything you've said and it's not offensive, because it is my duty to defend the MP, Mrs. Micic, and the only card that's always on fire is number one. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one notice, as we continue to follow the same rule that MPs are first informed, and then the public, about the work of the Assembly. An hour ago I received a letter in which the candidate, with all gratitude and honor, for the Ombudsman, who was proposed, in accordance with the law, on the DSS initiative, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and your decision included this point in the agenda, because the Assembly cares that as soon as possible this institution, Mr Jankovic, for personal reasons, is giving up this candidacy, so that this point will be withdrawn from the agenda now. I am also taking this opportunity to insist, as well as in previous months, on all parliamentary groups, that, in accordance with the law, urgently, because deadlines have been broken, propose a new candidate, so that the Assembly can establish another institution. We're continuing our work. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, then the Messenger Milos Disic, and the People's Messenger Miljko Četrović, and the Messenger Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, which is on the agenda, will have our support. In addition, I would like to point out this, given the reasons put forward here for the adoption of this law, and they are: to create a legal basis for the establishment of real deadlines for the adoption of a spatial plan in the municipality and urban plans, to establish their compliance with the law and regulations adopted under the law, and to strengthen the responsibility of state authorities and services, to prescribe appropriate deadlines for the implementation of the legalisation process of illegally built objects – the reasons are not disputed and these changes, as far as we are concerned, are not controversial. I would like to point out, and the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda, Mr Dragan Jovanovic, has presented very detailed reasons why a new law should be passed, that these changes are not controversial, but they are not enough. One very bad law cannot be fixed by small, even good changes. Therefore, we support this proposal from the committee responsible to approach the new law. Given the shortness of time standing before this parliamentary group, I will take the opportunity to point out in principle only two reasons for these changes, to look at them, and we will discuss this more in detail when there is a debate on details, i.e. the debate on amendments. I would like to support the amendment provided for in Article 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which provides for obtaining the consent of the Secretary-General to the general plan for cities, before its entry into force, or publication. I think there's a lot of reasons for that, and I'm only going to say one example. The general urban plan is a serious act, a very significant one, that has been brought in for decades and cannot be played with. We in Belgrade have an example that Belgrade's general urban plan has been brought with importance until 2021. Then what happens in practice? The owner of Belgrade, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, has opened a competition for the bridge design in a place where it is not intended for a general urban plan. Namely, a general urban plan for the city of Belgrade is scheduled to travel so-called. the inner magistrate's ring, which... The only thing that is safe in Belgrade is that it has caused divisions in the professional public; still no one knows what it will bring and how much it will cost, whether it will go to a billion euros, how much money it will take for it to be implemented, how much money it will take to build, how much money it will take to spread along the route that is scheduled there, but so it is foreseen by the general urban plan – that the course of the inner master's ring goes through the lowest coating on the hammer's glove, that's one part of Ada Gypsies. So, aside from the fact that the interest of both Belgrade and Serbia is an external highway ring, a bypass around Belgrade that needs to solve the traffic problem in Belgrade, because it cannot even get into it today, the interest of those authorities was an internal highway ring. So be it. It's supposed to go over the lowest dress on a squatter's glove. I've already said, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic is opening a competition for the construction of a bridge project, but through the Ade gypsies, not on that track. When all this is well done, of course, it is a bridge that is intended to be done and will cost 50m euros that the Belgraders will have to pay, without commission, without accessing structures, etc. Since this is not in line with the general urban plan, it means it's illegal, and that's the subject of this law, then it captures and amends the general urban plan, so now move the route of the inner magistrate's ring to go over the scale of Ade. For these reasons, we believe that order and control should be introduced, that it cannot be brought and changed as to who comes to mind. One more thing, we have proposed in one amendment to add to Article 28 some more points that give opportunity, i.e. oblige the construction approval to be given by the ministry. Why did we do that? Let's say, just because of that bridge. It is not logical that such a building, which costs so much money that the Belgraders will pay, does not have all the necessary papers, starts with a study of justification, and so on. It is not logical that credit is already being raised from European banks without the state considering and not granting approval for construction. The second question is about illegal construction. I think the amendments to this law move the deadlines for legalising objects, which is not disputed, the authority to issue approvals and prepare sublegal acts that need to be passed, but we don't think that's enough to solve this problem. And this law, which was passed in 2003, which only served to promote the Democratic Party and caused enormous damage, in fact created the possibility of local self-government, specifically in the case of Belgrade, to turn a huge administration, taxes, too expensive and unnecessary documentation of the legalisation process into a robbery. They thus experienced the legalisation of Belgrade; therefore, simply to collect money from citizens, and it was a legalisation process for them. Of course, there was a huge fear, I remember those days when it was chasing citizens how to save themselves from those claws at the end of 2003. It's a good thing it's changing now, but it's not enough. We believe that legalisation is a serious process, which must be well designed, which must be regulated and carefully implemented by law in phases, starting with the resolution of property-legal relations on land, through urbanism and beyond, and the amendments to this law have not been kept on the subject. For these reasons, it is necessary to pass a new law. We think that a solution must be found to facilitate the process, to prescribe what is necessary for the application, and to release unnecessary costs and to reduce the price, especially for those citizens who have solved the roof over their heads by building illegal facilities, for whom they have participated in building and equipping infrastructure. Those who have failed to resolve their housing issue in another way must separate from rich people who have illegally raised villas and malls at the most exclusive city sites. So this problem in general must be solved the way I suggested. Therefore, no matter what we vote to amend and supplement this law, we support the approach to adopting a comprehensive law on planning and construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24927	The word has been given by MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24928	Dear People's MPs, we have before us an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction. I don't want the members, that's what Zlatan Jovanovic was very good at explaining. I just want to say that this law and all the laws so far have not been good, and nothing good has been done to the citizens of Serbia, except that they have brought trouble and trouble. I will talk about some other things that are still related to this law and concern both this ministry and the Republic of Serbia. In order for Serbian citizens to benefit from all the laws passed here and which MPs vote should be extremely good and serve for that purpose, citizens still feel some improvement in the laws themselves. Obviously, since this government came and formed its government of such laws, there is no and Serbian citizens do not feel it on their backs, except I said they have only more problems and pains. This law does not offer any big solutions, but in one of its parts it is currently offering crime, and I will tell you through an example of local government in the Indji municipality in which way. I said there is nothing but crime; the greatest benefit from the law can be drawn from the construction mafia, which is now one of the strongest mafias in the country, next to the one Mr. Alexander Vukic mentioned in his speech, the energy mafia and other mafias that rule this country, and also your government that you have formed. Last week I called here and talked about Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. He's been in India these days, and I have to stay here the most. Strange things happen in India. He allowed Mladjan Dinkic to conceal these things in a strange way, illegally, and criminal charges against the government and state themselves will go into conversation with people. What's going on? In the municipality of Indjia, some objects are destroyed, and this law has defined what needs to be done, and even mentions the criminal provisions of Article 155 that are related to the law itself, so it is mentioned here by the items for which the penalties are followed if something is not done under the law. In the municipality of Indjia, objects that house three public utility companies are being destroyed. These facilities are under the protection of the state and no consent has been obtained from the Republic of Serbia or from the Institute to issue a permit for the destruction of these facilities. Seeing as he couldn't get permission to tear down the facilities Mr. President of the municipality, and his public defender didn't sign such an agreement, he dared to do it himself. These days these objects are collapsing. Mr. Dinkic was in Indjia last week and even, imagine, dared to block a single account brought by the Senior Trade Court in Sremska Mitrovica through the president of the Indjia Municipal Court. He made it possible for local self-government to be able to do dirty work and to deal with such things directly against the law and the Constitution. I asked him if he might have been at lunch, as an employee from the Ministry who went to control the budget in the Indji municipality, who they brought to lunch, just the local government from Indji. Yes, for a wonderful miracle, I have information that Mr. Dinkic was with Mr. Jesic for lunch, and that the aforementioned president of the municipality came out on his knees after that lunch. He couldn't track Mr Dinkic in further activities, but this really happened and this is true. I'll show you the lawsuit of the company Road Engineering, where she sued the Republic of Serbia for breaking the law. I'm asking the Ministry of this area what they're going to do on these issues if it's established that there's really no need to agree on the demolition of these buildings in the middle of India. The facilities were to be bought by Mercator, sold as unbuilt building land, previously had to be destroyed by four buildings, and sold to Mercator at some bargaining price as undeveloped building land. I'm asking you to get in the way of this sort of thing, because this is neither the government nor the citizens of India, and it's in the strict center of town. Is it possible that megamarket can be made 100 meters from the center of India, or is there going to be something else? This is true stuff and I'm just asking you to check it out. From this pay phone a month or two ago, I asked you to check how tenders were received for the destruction of certain facilities, i.e. furniture factories in India, where there was no competition on the destruction of public enterprises, or these, or those of the previous ones I asked for, and I didn't get any answer. Don't let Mladjan Dinkic go and end it in restaurants, because the bar is a miracle, the bar is such that he can do anything. If we stick to legalism, principles, legality, then these things have to be done in some other way. Avoid abuse of official position in the Indji municipality, save the goods that are legally protected, and they are already almost to the ground destroyed these days. If we're already passing laws like this, I'm asking you to comply with these provisions. The SRS won't vote for this bill, because we know it's not good, basically none of your laws are good, you're going to have a majority, you're going to vote, but stick to what you predicted. It's the only way this country can somehow do its job and make citizens believe. Only through the institutions of the government can we trust you, which is that you respect the laws that you make yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24929	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24930	Respected MPs, Minister Velimir Ilic is probably missing, he gave a brief explanation of the amendments and the additions to the law and went to check whether the hill in Popovici is still slipping and whether the beech link works, since in the January election campaign this year he said that it would be stopped and rescheduled by the glide, but when the disasters occurred across Serbia with slides then he wisely said that no one could stop it. It is likely that the CIP experts did not explain in the election campaign that the skates are very difficult to stop, but it was necessary to deceive the citizens of the Kingdom municipality to vote for the New Serbia candidate, and the candidate for New Serbia was Velimir Ilic. He has promised a billion and a half dinar to invest in the Municipality of Kralje, and the Ministry of Capital Investments. As a candidate, the Serbian Radical Party and I have led a serious and responsible campaign and will be pleased if the Ministry and Velimir Ilic invests these billions and a half of dinars in the municipality of Kraljevo. It is a contribution both to the SRS and to me as a candidate, because with a serious and responsible campaign, we forced Velimir Ilic to promise a billion and a half dinar investments in the municipality of Kraljevo. Now I'm going back to the bill of amendments and additions to the law. Looking at the Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted as early as May 2003, and the devastating consequences of its application, by trying this government and the Minister for Capital Investments with a proposal for amendments and amendments to the Law, nothing good will happen to many citizens of Serbia who are related to the direct and indirect application of the provisions of this law. We are witnessing that this law, an extremely bad law, with extremely bad provisions, is not even applicable. Unfortunately, of the 25 sublegal acts, 19 has not been passed in two or more years. Then we can see how the law is applied. The application of this law has essentially brought chaos and anarchy, and the crime of responsible people, beginning from local authorities to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The law has put aside general urban plans, forced construction rules have been introduced, and these rules have brought crime in the construction of city centres. The obvious example is the King, where the so-called So-called King is. The urban or construction mafia, depends on who calls it, in line with local government leaders, and unfortunately with leaders or responsible people at the Ministry of Capital Investments. They have kidnapped the city's largest centre in the Kingdom, and this is happening throughout Serbia. Here's an example of Belgrade. Many examples show that something that is the most expensive in the world as a resource, city building land, is being taken away from citizens, from those living in the neighborhood, business and housing facilities, 100 percent of the space is covered, no parking, no yard, and no infrastructure. To whose harm? To the detriment of mostly neighbouring residents, residents of the entire city and the entire municipality, because all these consequences are paid by all citizens of the respective local self-government or the corresponding municipalities in the area where they live. The consequences are too difficult: from infrastructure that is not adapted to building these on dozens of new business-building facilities, and on the other hand, the consequences remain not ten, twenty, but a hundred years, because no one can move those facilities or move them away from it. The second consequence is that you so-called. "investors" – I pay tribute to real and real investors in the area of construction, given what the building of buildings is, but many current investors in Serbia are former sanctions and war profiteers – now, by investing in the construction of business and housing, laundering dirty money that has been acquired by criminal actions in oil smuggling, tobacco and other products. Now it's legalization or legalization of the dirtiest money that's ever been made a few years back. They are privileged and, with the help of their influence or power or money, directly in conjunction with the leaders of the local authorities, again in the King, they now determine where anything will be built, in which way it will be built. General urban plans have been put out of force, although it is not explicitly stated under the basic provisions of the law. No regulatory plans have been made. When you look at the reasons or reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, although it is said here that the law in the procedure is almost a year and a half, we see by the date of the act when the Government sent the National Assembly the law, which is 21 October 2005, that this fact does not stand for a year and a half. If there were any seriousness and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Capital Investments, it would not have been realistic for chaos, anarchy, crime to take place in the area of planning and construction. Planning and construction in one country, in Serbia, are in fact linked to many people, those whose facilities were not legalised, who had to build their houses by force without proper permission. In an earlier period, the DOS authorities tried to profit politically through local authorities, allegedly promising fast, cheap legalisation, and in essence it was a fraud and attempted to rob most of those citizens who, by force, had to build houses without permits. It's not about 10, 20,000 citizens. According to some estimates, unfortunately the state does not have any valid data on how many illegally built buildings there are when it comes to houses, there are 700,000 to a million of these houses or buildings; and now multiply, it is not one member of the household, is it two or three, how many now are members of these households living in such facilities. It is not true that, in some ways, in these amendments and additions to the Law, the possibility of legalising these so-called so-called laws is facilitated. Improperly built objects. Unfortunately, Article 48, in particular Article 49, is the same situation and is once again left to local self-government to resolve the issue. The issue of legalisation is the issue or the problem of the Serbian state. The state of Serbia must resolve with explicit legal provisions to make it the easiest, fastest and cheapest for all who have come into the situation, not their own fault, to live in such houses that do not have legal permission and are accompanied by other harmful consequences because they have not had that legal license for 10, 20 or 30 years. You can't put it off any longer at any cost. That is why Articles 48 and 49 of the Law do not facilitate the position of citizens – they should re-apply certain requirements, have some costs again, and the effect remains the same as it was in 2003, 2004, not to speak in 2005; it does care, regardless of what a good part of the citizens have applied for legalisation, but no procedures have been carried out and there has been no legalisation. The Commission's plans for municipal local authorities are in fact contributing to this chaos - the way they are formed, are neither professional, nor responsible, nor qualified people. That's the problem across Serbia, that's the problem in the King as well. We in the King have a member of the commission who is a forest engineer, a member of the commission who is a graduate construction technician. And Kraljevo, as a city with over 130,000 inhabitants, where we have architects and construction engineers, was not in a position to get a professional, responsible board of plans. What else makes it harder for the planning commission to work? These are the three members allegedly delegated by the Ministry of Capital Investment under the law. The three members, essentially, are doing what the members of the committee elected by the municipal congregation are doing, in the interest of these so-called so-called municipalities. investors, and are being severely violated by existing plans and regulatory plans, which are being brought to the fore. Here, in the King, two regulatory plans for the city's hardest center have been brought to a great deal of trouble. What did we get? We've got regulation plans just need to sanction or confirm what's illegal, illegal and criminally done in the city's nearest center. Unfortunately, these regulatory plans, one and two, for the city center are not a real picture or a real state of what is in the city center space. In order to hide crime, abuse and robbery of construction land, the robbery of the money of citizens of the municipality of Kraljevo, as well as citizens of the Serbian state, no buildings are drawn the way the real situation is on the ground. Because a permit was given, an urban act, for three, four floors, and it was built two or three more floors with a attic, and even the basements were turned into a business space. There's robbery and kidnapping, when it comes to obligations to the municipality and obligations to the state. There's no one here who's accounted, no one's answered when it comes to construction inspection, urban inspection, but no one from the Department of Capital Investments... The Ministry of Capital Investment through the administrative procedure for the dispute of urban acts, i.e. a permit, helps to bring all these abuses. The staff of the ministry with the leaders of the local government, with the so-called investors, or urban and construction mobsters, are obvious everywhere in Serbia, especially in the Kingdom. As a responsible parliamentary group, we tried several times at the local assembly of the municipality of Kraljevo to initiate and to put on the agenda such a chaotic situation in the municipality of Kraljevo, but unfortunately the majority government, which is the same as in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, made up of the same parties, did not want to be responsible for discussing this difficult problem and abuse. Even the M.O.P. inspectors for economic crime, since there were more of our steps in the local assembly and the glossy documents that we received as a committee group of SRS... She tried through two inspectors allegedly to analyse materials and facts, but probably under the pressure of the district attorney and probably the minister of capital investment did not have any criminal proceedings and any responsibility for abuses, for violations of the law directly and for the crime that is taking place in the city's closest center, and now extends to suburban settlements. Such a change of law will not contribute to this chaos, anarchy and crime when it comes to planning and building in Serbia. Unfortunately, it will move on, because you're here saying it's going to be for another year, what's been happening so far will continue. In that sense, both as a man and as an MP of the SRS, I cannot in any way support such changes and additions to the law. This law needs to be changed from root to clear and precise rules, precise norms, which no one can interpret in their own way, and that, by direct application of these standards and control in the application of these standards by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Capital Investment, once again, order is taken when it comes to planning and building in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24931	Thank you. The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared. There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a brief replica of the presentation of my previous colleague. So far, I've had reason to think about why he lost so disastrously in the King. Now I'm even clearer. He still doesn't know who the New Serbia candidate was in the King's office, so he focused his sharp criticism and campaign on the wrong direction. I have to report, since Mr. Cetrovic still doesn't know that he is a New Serbia candidate in the Royal Republic of Dr. Milos Babic; he won four to one. So much for the citizens of the Kings, because you are calling on the citizens of the Kings and what they thought of you as an SRS candidate. As Mr Milos Babic will do, we'll see about that in the next period. And just as the citizens of the kings have judged you, so will they judge him, as he does, and so will they vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24933	I thank Mr Markicevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24934	I didn't say for no reason that Velimir Ilic was a candidate. Dr Milos Babic was formally a candidate for the new Serbia municipality president. The whole campaign and all the promises... Twice throughout the municipality of Kraljevo was visited by Velimir Ilic, all the villages of the municipality of Kraljevo and promised 2.5, 10, 20 million. Here, on another occasion, when it comes to amendments, I will bring what Velimir Ilic promised in the village where I live, in Ratina. It's about a billion and a half dinar in total. Looking at how the President of the King's Municipality now works, I can't expect anything good. The citizens of the Kingdom Municipality will evaluate and judge. It has been 45 days since the election and the second round, municipality president Dr Milos Babic did not propose his deputy, there is no SO session, there has been total paralysis of local authorities. We'll wait, I'll say again, as a responsible committee group, three months, we'll give those three months to the elected president of the Royal Municipality to see what they'll do and what they'll do. After that, a whole list of billions and a half of dinars will be presented to him daily and will be reminded of what is promised and what is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24935	I thank Mr. Cevrovic. The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable chairman today, before the debate began, the minister said, explaining these amendments to the law, because he has a lot of criticism that this is done in Serbia, that he will fight to ensure that there is no mud in Serbia. I support the minister in that part, he must know that there is mud in all municipalities, but not only to make streets where New Serbia is in power; in one municipality he makes 50 kilometers, and in another he creates a square centimetre. That's it, but let's get to the law. We have so far in this part of the law made by Minister Šumarac, and in practice it has proved that the law does not work and that it is not good, that there are still abuses, etc. Today we are going to correct this law, which in practice proved to be not good, with these changes that we have received today and that we are discussing today. This debate has just shown that there are a lot of problems in this section. It's hard for us to explain to the citizens that here we have problems with the construction of the joints, obtaining permits to build multi-story buildings, etc., but I think other ministries should be involved in the work next to this ministry. I think this will be a failed law if everyone doesn't get involved, and if from this mafia, because they say there are mobs in construction, they don't arrest five people in public, no law will help Serbia. Furthermore, the minister said, supplementing the law will speed up legalisation and the aim is for this law to speed up that legalisation. It is a promise from previous elections – when we come we will legalize everything etc. We don't have any of that. Today, when we want to fix it, we say – this law cannot fix it, but we will adopt a subsequent regulation. Why don't we pass the law, why don't you put everything in the law to solve these problems? Now the Assembly will adopt the laws, sit down someone, a minister or an assistant minister, and create some regulation to go in and in which direction. The legalization process needs to be accelerated, more expensive, it's clear to everyone, but I don't see from these supplements that we're going to get to it. I don't understand why the state doesn't use the mood of citizens to legalize their facilities. Legalization is, in fact, twice you make the same house; once you make it 30 years ago, and now what it's worth, you still have to give it to the state and you have a 30-year-old house again. What projects are being discussed here about legalization projects, a house was built 30 years ago and now a project will cost 1000 euros and an expert will come – where cables go through the old house; so neither does the one who built it, nor the one who put the cables in the house. What is this solution, what is that goal? Maybe we should go with some shooting, the settlements are nickeled, there's a lot of houses in one village, now we're going to draw all that out, so we're going to draw that cables go on walls, and they're going on ceilings, etc. Now you in our housing projects can't manage to find an installation, people torture, they break up half the house, and we're going to legalize there what the poor made houses in the settlements. Don't think there's a lot of money to be taken and going at some prices, because all those who had money have villas on Dedinj, they took apartments of 200 or 300 square meters. Those who do not have made poor houses in these parts, in the fields, etc. There is not much money, and there is no need to get carried away at some price, but in the simplest way to allow people to legalize, because it is about workers, poor farmers. There's been a lot of saying that there's a mob in the building, there's talk of some Belgrade construction mob, and here, except in this room, when you're on the street, when the theme is building, everyone's talking that you can't go to Belgrade's offices without 10,000 euros. So there's no license. Around these joints, they say, 10,000 euros to stop and be on that list, but you don't even get a guarantee that you get a place, you just get on the list, and that's 10,000 euros. If we want to draw a line once in this country, solve big issues, solve these problems, we need to make an effective law. I see that you are also referring to this law as European standards, and as I look at the law, I don't think it's much like Europe. Therefore, if the aim of this law is to speed up legalisation, to draw the line, to legalize everything that has been built so far, to start with new laws, I suggest you start making a new law immediately, and this with a regulation if it can, because I know that in many cases certain people are being agreed on and I suggest you make some regulation and allow people to legalize what they built 30 or 40 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24937	I thank Mr. Peric. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sredoje Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the last dozen tours of the Minister of Capital Investments in this room, I have noticed that whenever they announce that I am going out the minister is gone. He probably saw the list this morning, so he saw that I was on the list, too, and he left. However, I understand the minister, since he has no idea how else to stop all these slides in Serbia, he may be holding a hill. There's a way, let him know, that the slides stop, that they're being rescheduled, that it doesn't stick to the hill. Or maybe he went to open up another tender, who says there's going to be an election, and there's more tenders left. But I'm not going to talk today about the Horgos highway - Pozega and the crime where Minister Ilic is involved, and I'm going to talk about when we talk about the law on giving counter-guarantee, or this time Belgrade - Novi Sad, we'll do it tomorrow, and I think he'll come tomorrow, so I'm going to ask him how this country is building a road, a bridge, and he's giving a built bridge. I'm not going to ask him today, and if he were here, I wouldn't ask him how much he paid for those trains, how much he paid for the remont trains, and how much he put in there. There's one item on the agenda, and we're going to talk about that, and hopefully it'll be there. Before I move on to all this, I have to respond to one comment from his political party. When I passed there yesterday, they asked me if the pieces of Professor Vojislav Seselj were in my bag. Prof. Vojislav Seselj has so many books written that they can't fit into ten suitcases, and Velje Ilic's combined works and Sundays are neatly blended into registers, so we'll read them once after the election. Let's get to the law. I hope that as long as his term of office is still going to be the capital minister or minister of capital, however you like, he won't go to America, because I remember that Minister of Construction, the Shumarac, he goes to America with a mustache, and he comes back without a mustache, shaves him there. Since Velija Ilic doesn't have a mustache, I don't know what they'd take off. Let's start with a proposal to amend and supplement Article 2 of this Act, the Law of Shumart, which Velja Ilic is trying to bring to order, so it is in Article 2. The Ministry well explained certain concepts in this bill. So he says, "The public area is a space established by a plan for facilities whose use, i.e. building of general interest, is in accordance with regulations" and so on. And what is this doing in one building law? "public facilities of general interest," the minister explained to us what are public. Explain to us what regulation is – "is the determination of regulatory and urban conditions of the arrangement of space based on the plan, i.e. on the rules of the urban profession". What's a leveling? "The levelling is the determination of the levelling technical conditions of the layout of the space on the basis of the plan" and so on. Stepen or index of busyness... This Article 2 looks more like a lexicon than a member of the law. How much easier will it be for Serbian citizens to build, legalize, and all the roof over their heads and their families after the adoption of this Article 2? That's amazing. I mean, maybe they'll notice. So explain to us what the city is. He says, "The city is a settlement that is like a city established by law. "Then he says: "The settlement is a built-up functionally united space where conditions for living and working and meeting the common needs of residents are provided. "Then explain to us what the village is. So he says, "The village is a village whose population is mainly agricultural, and it's not the municipality's headquarters. "Ask the minister, that he may explain the next day, that I do not now ask a messenger's question. Why can't the village be the seat of the municipality? So I′ have in Belgrade – the township of Surcin, Surcin is a village. I guess he didn't talk to Bogdanovic about this. Either Surchin can't be a municipality or this formulation of yours isn't valid, at least this last part. Then: "The town settlement is a settlement with elements of the city character that has developed production and service activities, and as such is defined by a spatial plan. "I wonder what are the elements of the city character that cannot be found in the village. Is it a sewer, a plumbing, some small industry, what is it that gives the city character? Is that a residential building? And we come up with something that I didn't know either, and I don't think you'll know when I read to you: "NUTS is the nomenclature of statistical territorial units according to the standards of the European Union, or the statistical institution of the European Union in Luxembourg. "NUTS has four to five million inhabitants, or the character of a federal unit. And then NUTS 2, this was NUTS 1, has one to four million inhabitants, and then NUTS 3 has 100,000 to one million inhabitants and NUTS 4 has ten thousand to one hundred thousand, and NUTS 5, which would say NUTS-ic some small, has under ten thousand inhabitants. Gentlemen of the Ministry, who are you kidding here? "NUTS is the nomenclature of statistical territorial units according to the standards of the European Union," and I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, how have we lived since they first came down from the tree to this day on this territory, and we haven't been categorized by NUTS? Explain to us what is the location, then the regulatory line, then the construction line, then the construction area, then the construction of the building. What is building an object? I thought it was building by now. It turns out, by the minister: "a set of actions involving: previous works, construction of technical documentation for construction of the building, control of technical documentation, preparatory works for construction, construction of the building and professional supervision during the construction of the building". What is an idea project, a major project, a performance project, and so on and so forth... To find out from Article 5 that an agency is being formed; famous agencies that are being passed in every law so far so that someone else can join New Serbia in the meantime, he is employed by one of the agencies. Not a single letter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about what the built Serbia is tormenting - the legalization of built objects without a building permit, I will not say wild objects, let those in the ruling furniture say so. Not a single letter. On the other hand, in this previous law, this legalization is so complicated that literally nothing can be done. You heard this morning when the MP, Mr. Alexander Vukic, spoke about legalization in Zemun, how many cases were completed in the first part, and the second part is waiting, because someone in town doesn't think to finish the legalization work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party certainly won't vote for this law, perhaps for this NUTS, but only him to single out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24939	I thank Mr. Markovic. The People's Messenger, Sredoje Mihajlov, has the word, and the MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, is prepared for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24940	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was in the Assembly when it was voted in favour of this mentioned law that Mr. Schumarac proposed in the Assembly and I voted for it; and then I defended it and wanted to explain why it was necessary. Now in this discussion, in principle, I'm going to try to explain with a few sentences how significant that is, and I can see from the very discussions that we've all agreed that this law should be accepted. First of all, every country makes a spatial plan, that's the highest act after the Constitution, according to me in the rank of the Constitution. So he regulates his territory, says where he's going to be, where he plans to be in the long run, he's thinking about how to sort out that place where he's running power and at his disposal. There are streams of water, and airspace, and forests, and cities, and villages, which you mentioned, and all these are there. All these plans that go after that, behind that plan, are in sync and they're trying to set themselves up. I'll remind you, I'm from Vojvodina, and just to tell you, 250 years ago, when Vojvodina started to be arranged, urban plans were made, and our streets were entrenched at the right angle, so east - west, churches in the center of the village, across the municipality, and not to explain, you can see now. So 250 years ago, they've been standing so built up the streets that someone imagined them 250 years ago. This country we called a rotten Austro-Hungarian, or I don't know what kind of, unsettled, has left us with arranged and arranged urban plans, or as we now call them regulatory plans or as we've already given them names. It was known exactly how many gardens, where the house was located, where the garbage was located, where there was part of the garden and so on. So, that was prescribed, how grant, those who know, that was exactly what was known and done exactly as planned. And now at least there's these wild constructions, illegal constructions in Vojvodina, right where it was best arranged. It's just that the government hasn't taken care of it in 50 years. She had laws, but she followed the law as prescribed by their leader, and that is, stick to the law as a drunk vessel. So the laws were written, but no one followed them. I will remind you of what Mr. Šumarac said when the law was passed – New Belgrade is a field. And let's not laminate here over those who need to pay, who built a roof over their heads and who need to pay for communals or legalize. That's no problem, you're making political marketing here. The problem is that for 50 years the area, which has been regulated by what kind of laws, has been totally abandoned, rooted, destroyed. There's been an ambience that you don't have to do this, that you don't break the law. It'd be like if we created an ambience now if you stole something from someone, well, it's not your fault. I think it's terribly abandoned. The objects were, unfortunately, built as they were built, some perhaps with some regulations, and lately, while you were exclusively in power, it became terrible. The surrounding cities got favelas, people were building where someone had arrived, because they knew there would be no sanctions and that would be legalized, they knew they had the support of the authorities for what they were doing. I'm not talking about those people who've been lifting a roof over their heads, these unfortunate people have this problem, but we'll find a solution and a suggestion for them. I'm talking about those tycoons that built magnificent objects. Instead of giving them some locations in the cities, making cities and architecture beautiful, they made favelas. Now you can see on your way to Zrenjanin that the objects are 45o from the road, because no parcel was done and there was no leveling angle that you were talking about and that you wanted to make fun of. You might want to learn about those terms while you're out. So it was done exactly the way anyone wanted it to be done. Fortunately, we don't have a lot of wild construction, one that can never be legalized. In the complete Jawlight as it was built, houses were built outside those regulatory lines you're talking about, neighbors were built on the ridge, and now they're suing, and we can't take his house down. We'll have no problem, for 50 years this situation has been abandoned, not because of those little people you're talking about, but because of other situations. Legalization will be difficult, we'll have a hard time in Europe. We were Europe. I'm telling you, 250 years ago, we had all these urban settlements arranged. We were Europe, and now we're not. We may even be 500 years old to look at such built houses as you allowed. We're now trying to get some laws to put it in order. That's why G17 plus will vote for this bill and expect you to co-operate, to improve it with some amendments. We're glad that the SPS gentlemen realized that the law is significant, and that you're asking to put the law out of force, that's comical. What's done, it's longer than one government. You've just left us a difficult ride. It's not a replica. [[Momir Markovic, from the site: How long does the replica last?]] Maybe you'll have a replica eventually, if you want to. (President: Mr. Michael, not you, but you.) ) As for that story that you wanted to open, where really some people will have a legal problem, it should be done by local self - administration and it is not a great effort. Indeed, settlements were built at that time totally unstandard and difficult to urbanize, narrow streets and not elaborate on all these problems. In the future, if I'm pessimistic, we'll have a hundred years of trouble bringing it all into some sort of order, since everything's been messed up. So I ask you to accept this law with the improvements that you propose and which are useful. It's not only important that we pass the law, it's important to create an environment that the law has to be respected. You created the environment so the law doesn't have to be respected. If you're really good at thinking about this country and you think we can get into Europe, we need to respect those standards, Momo, which you've been making fun of. Not that we have to, but we will, we want to respect, because 250 years ago we were. That's why G17 plus supports this law, doesn't say it's the best in the world, because it knows what conditions it comes under. I'm sure it's not the Holy Scriptures. Where we see something missing, we're willing to improve it, if there's a new law to be written, but we want to go ahead and want to act like real citizens once, so we know we have a civic obligation to respect regulations. One country is working to make life easier for its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24941	I thank Mr. Michael. Of course, we didn't live in Europe, we lived in Austria, that part of Serbia, so we know where we are. We're just gonna live. Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24942	I ask the chairman to give this man his word in the future only in the morning. It's too late this afternoon, he's got white mice out of his pockets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP who spoke before me has defended this law that willa Ilic changes these amendments and additions. The People's MP is mentioned whenever he sobers up the game. He's changed them by now, at least as far as I know, eight, nine. There's a chance all 352, how many are registered, except for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24943	The People's MP Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, had firstly had to aim to amend a discriminatory law that was passed in April 2004, which brought power to the DS, above all. The Democratic Party then, as the institution of government in the previous government, has put out of force all previous laws governing the area of construction and urbanism, thus interrupting any continuity in the development of legislation in the area. The Democrats, under the name of reforms, have created complete chaos in an important area of society's development, especially in urban areas. So, if we are talking about the proposal, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly, about amendments and amendments to the law, which had one very different objective, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law had to be clear and in one precise way regulated legislation in this matter, which is very important for all of our society and the Republic of Serbia. I will just say that the previous 1995 Law on Planning and Planning of Space requires that the territory of the Republic of Serbia be regulated as a single continent. This was the basic principle on which legal solutions were based, with the aim of ensuring the uniform management of the long-term policy of regulating the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At the time, Minister Šumarac was in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Even after the law was passed, a comment was written by Mrs Slavica Miric, who worked at the ministry, which is why Mrs Miric was fired because she taxed in that comment on what was not good in the law. The law was passed for only one reason, as many speakers have said, and in particular the SRS MPs told the speaker, and the Serbian Radical Party submitted 15 amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. So, the Democratic Party, by calling for reforms and allegedly by harmonising legislation with the world, they say, with European legislation in this area, has broken the continuity of the development of legislation in a completely unnatural way, and has not taken into account the real situation in which there is no clear strategy and plan policy. That that's true and that's what the indicators tell us, that urban institutions didn't do their basic work, and that's what planning is, but they've been recalibrating the entire society a few years back. So, Serbia is one of the few countries in the region that has no detailed regulatory plans, and of course it should have them. Why is the Planning Agency, as one farce, first of all, created a new base for the functioning of the political and urban mafia, and it is known what individuals have been doing in the past period, especially those associated with the Democratic Party, as well as parties ruling the DSS and G17 plus coalition. There is little in every city in Serbia that the bearers of these structures and interest groups associated with the local government of the Democratic Party are known above all. We can give an example of Belgrade and Belgrade municipalities, it is quite clear. There are almost no municipalities in Belgrade, where the Democratic Party is ruling, with the help of you from the DSS and the G17 plus, who have given them support in all of this... Every municipality in Belgrade in which the Democrats rule is a municipality ruled by bribery and corruption, and that is where local powers are being deceived by the coat of arms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The issue of the legalisation of illegally built objects is one of the key issues that the existing law should have addressed, and it does not solve it or regulate it in the right way. The impoverished population of the Republic of Serbia, which barely survives, should follow, as you say, European standards and pay abnormal prices for city building land, which the citizens themselves did in the absence of planning regulations and planning documents. The Law on Planning and Construction adopted by the previous government and these amendments and additions to the Law will not speed up the procedure for obtaining a building permit, but the process, as in previous law, has doubled the process of obtaining a permit, means that the new status given to an idea project and an idea solution has further threatened the designers, and has doubled the payment for Serbian citizens. If an informal survey was conducted in certain municipalities, e.g. I will take into account the municipalities in Belgrade, where the Democratic Party, such as the municipalities of Kukarica, Vozdovac, Palilula, Novi Belgrade, Stari Grad, Zveztar, would be fully visible to the law on planning and construction, as well as the power of corruption that exists in these municipalities. It is unacceptable for the law to establish the Spatial Planning Agency, as well as the Engineering Chamber and treat them as private enterprises through which individuals profit, and Serbian citizens will be threatened with various types of taxi payments and licenses, e.g. through the Engineering Chamber, which, in the present conditions, does not improve the engineering profession, which was supposed to be the goal. In this way, it is questionable whether the sole objective is to pay the annual membership fee, and if it were not, the Engineering Chamber would have passed the basic regulation on the evaluation of engineering work. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, there is no clear concept that the existing law amends and clears, to specify certain parts that must be changed in order to precisely define standards, regulations and standards, as well as mechanisms for their application. Therefore, the primary role of the Law on Planning and Construction is the role of supervision and control over construction, and given the security and protection of the private and public interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted, as I said, a series of amendments to the Serbian government's proposal to correct the law. However, we cannot be satisfied with this proposal to amend and supplement the law, because it does not address the issue of construction and urbanism in the way you had to do. Secondly, you entered the third year of power, and you had to propose this bill to the National Assembly with complete amendments to the existing and applicable law when you formed the Government. So you from the ruling coalition had to regulate this area a long time ago. There's no reason the government can't do that. There is only one reason he can't do that – because you didn't have a clear program and goals when you took power at the level of the Republic. For all that you do, the citizens of Serbia will punish you in the next local and republican elections. The Serbian Radical Party, which was discussed by individual speakers from the ruling coalition, when they spoke about local government, its knowledge and programme applied back to the time we first ruled in the municipality of Zemun in Belgrade and when Zemun was president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj. So, you can say whatever you want, we, at the time of the sanctions, after the bombing managed to repair objects destroyed by the NATO Pact, and you supported it, and, which is the essence of the whole story, in the 2000 campaign before October 5, you mocked bridges by your members and sympathisers making bridges out of Styrofoam. What is the government of DS, DSS, G17 plus and the mayor of Bogdanovic doing in Belgrade? They're talking about some inner ring, they don't want to hear members of the Academy of Sciences set out according to the plan they think they're doing Belgrade. So, the goal is for citizens in Serbia to have regulated laws in a way that will allow them to solve their problems. As the ruling coalition, it was your duty to do and it was your duty. The Serbian Radical Party will vote against this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, because the bill does not make the necessary changes in the existing discriminatory law passed by your coalition partner in Belgrade -- the Democratic Party when it was in power at the republican level, a law that was aimed at, by the then government, at turning Serbian citizens black. They only aimed at promoting their stakeholders by law and ultimately to make the biggest robbery in Serbia by charging all possible taxis they had planned, etc. That's what some MPs from the ruling coalition said, but it can't be clear to me that you've proposed amendments and additions to the laws of a purely cosmetic nature, with little changes. We tried to fix this proposal to amend and supplement the law as far as possible, but we will vote against your law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24945	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, then the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, if there is enough time left. Eight minutes is still available.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24946	Of course, on the subject of the amendment, we will take the opportunity to talk more specifically about some of the solutions offered in this bill of amendments and additions. I'd just like to pick up where Mr. Jovanovic stopped in the morning, when he tried to explain under what conditions the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted. No objective has been achieved by this law, nor is it possible to obtain a building permit within 45 days, to move ahead with construction, or to settle urban plans, none of what the Forester has promised to achieve. There was one, seemingly hidden, and in fact a clear obstruction of all the regulations in the area of planning and construction, in order to open up a space for the functioning of the mafia that has been reselling stolen cars, at least as far as half of these large investors in Belgrade are concerned, is in a position to resell apartments. Public secret, go to the U.S. Department, and you'll hear. If you want to get as soon as possible, you know – 100 euros per square, which you worry about, it will pay for whoever needs to buy a living space or a business space. Of course, we have the most expensive living and business space, especially in Belgrade, and there is a similar situation in other places, only it is a system of large numbers, so Ali-babe, Dejani, Russians, other Dejani, Ljuba Angelkovic, the entire Chukaric slope. And today, Nebojsa Covic is in command and everyone knows it. Now let's go back to the bill. Someone promised, when he came to power, that this law would change quickly, so he quickly changed it, or proposed a change after two years, but it did not change this law. And the one that's gone, I'd like him to swim a little bit in these cloudy waters of this law and this law, and the law is bad, and God forbid you're making a new law, I guarantee it'll get worse. To know that Serbian radicals are right, look for a stenogram of the session held in May 2003, so you will meet, to learn the fact that we then said that the Shumartz law would be as it is. There are some other MPs who have strongly opposed the radicals, as they are today harshly opposed, believing it to be a European, good law, and none of it has turned out to be. It turned out to be just a disaster for all sorts of mobsters. Just to remind you, remind your minister: And in 2003, I said what was done towards the Fox creek, what was done with that forest. The forest college protested sharply, a new settlement was built. What's the Sava Wreath Community doing? From Covic via Vuk Draskovic; all urban plans are those made by Covic or started construction in his time. We have the continuity of the mob, and everybody knows it. If you want to finish quickly, you know the price, you know the address. Now, in that insatiableness, municipal public defenders also appear, so you had a woman up until a few years ago in Zemun who forged the documentation, so she asks for a repeat procedure to cancel the building permit, because she asked for 80,000 euros from the man, and it's all known and it goes on. And Velimir Ilic follows such a law, for instead of Meera is now well. Instead of Pere Dick, but it's still the same and it's clear to everyone, as clear as it can be. We used to have a few laws that regulated this area. We had a law on building land. The law no longer exists, there are several provisions in the Law on Planning and Construction that treat city building land. In what way? In the wrong way, and this wrong way is presented to us as something epochal, because it is reportedly possible in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to acquire property on building land. That's why Parivodić is in the government, and some others, for the return of some property. A fairy tale that tells people, which sounds nice, and in practice it's gone. Did the municipalities bring in, in accordance with the deadline prescribed by article 84 or some, 83, regarding the determination of that building land? None of the municipalities respected it. Then why the law? We had a good planning law. It probably took another five, six provisions in that law to change. It wasn't about making an omnibus law with much worse provisions. In that law, construction firms were licensed, and people are licensed under this law. It is a public secret in Belgrade that one licensed engineer holds 15 construction sites, and he only knows the addresses on paper, has never been to a construction site in his life. Do you know that from the Ministry? Engineering chamber, the woodsman picked up these from soccer, from college. The forest, which has not designed the garage in life, known for its yoghurt on Gorica Gajević while they were in college, I apologize to Gorica for using her name. Insignificant personality, no expert, by mistake professor. I'm authorized to say that by mistake he's a professor and that's what his colleagues are saying about him. Now it's those who are trained to be construction heads, so-called building heads, so-called buildings. Drive engineers, become excess labour, lose the right to work. And, faster-better this Vučetić's Constitutional Court made a decision ten days ago, assessed the constitutionality of the law provision, it seems to me Article 117 concerning these people with higher school supplies, and he said – well, the assembly was authorized in another way to prescribe it. We have an engineering chamber that doesn't make any use of it. They don't even have publishing activity, they have big money that can't be spent, but it can serve as a good deposit for DS. That's a fact. Of course the Democratic Party is responsible for not being in the Assembly, she is the government in this country. She doesn't raise her hands, she doesn't vote, some others support, but they finish the job. You're building something in Belgrade if you're not a member of the Democratic Party. No way. From one law firm, a third lawyer withdraws and is sent to the city secretary for urbanism, and he has no idea about urbanism. That's what you know. Where did you get the idea that in Belgrade the second-degree body that solves the complaint should be at the level of the city? What makes Belgrade different from the White Palanca? What is the equality of citizens? What city? So what if it's the city of Belgrade? You give the same rights to every citizen by law: the one in the White Palanca, the one in Subotica and the one in Belgrade. If the one in Subotica writes a complaint and is resolved by the ministry, the complaint written in Belgrade will be resolved by the ministry. Oh, no, you made the plot. You don't care about the city, you leave it to the city, you clean your hands, and you live on people in Subotica, the White Palanca, the Shop, etc. Mr. Markovic, just one more sentence. I must remind you that in 1994, the Law on the termination of the Law on the Building of Objects was passed and thanks to the SP, at that time to the powerful party, in that article it remained in force in those cases where the first-degree solution was made, and in the proposal of the Ministry of Justice there was a judicial solution. Now look through your inspection that has been misused in Serbia under a law that ceased to apply 13 years ago. And today, there's a construction going on. Those who criticized that law use it abundantly today. Look at the Starship Community. Now it's clear to you why a radical can't be the president of the municipality, but must be the coalition of the democratic bloc, so that it doesn't come out and see what the company's fantasizing and what's going on. Today, Serbia's most decent builders have no machinery, no machines, nothing. They have a purse, a bow, a lawyer, a Democratic Party membership card. With this amendment and the addition of this law, you do not prevent it, but you support it. That's why we don't want to vote for that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24947	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RUDING LAW (principles) You are now free, so let Minister Naumov enter, please. You've received a bill from the government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group – one hour 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes 24 seconds, MEP for European Serbia – six minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MEPs, three independent MPs per five minutes, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Before I give my word to the proposing representative, I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised for this item of the agenda: Branislav Rankic for the SRS and for the SPS Dragan S. Jovanovic. I remind you that today we will only be working until the end, I hope only, in principle search of this agenda. Thank you. Does Minister Radomir Naumov want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24948	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over the past few decades, can be said from the mid-20th century to the last decade, mining and geological research of mineral raw materials have achieved a significant level of development. A number of metal mines, nemetals, lignite surface spears have been opened. He was put into work for our country a significant number of oil wells. All of this gave strong momentum to other industries, especially metal complexes, chemical industries, construction operations, as well as other industries that rely on mineral raw materials complexes. However, in the last decade of the 20th century, for famous reasons, there has been a depletion of the mining production of numerous raw materials, as well as a decimation of the production of colored and precious metals: copper, lead, zinc, gold, silver. The causes, of course, lie in the intense exhaustion of quality, and for the exploitation of favourable ore reserves. That's what they'd say on one side. Also, there is a reduction in the cost of production in terms of economic isolation, a drastic reduction in the amount of investment in the exploitation and exploration of beds, i.e. investments in prospective and detailed investigative works. The inability to invest has led to the rapid exploitation of existing machines, plants, as well as the beds themselves. All of this was negatively reflected in the balance between unearthed and newly found ore reserves, and mine production was made at the expense of known reserves, which led to their drastic reduction. However, the time in which we live forces us to take decisive and rapid steps to overcome this situation in the mineral and raw materials sector, in order to provide enough raw materials and energy in the future, above all, from domestic sources. This will create conditions for smooth growth and industrial development, as well as for countries in general. To that end, the Ministry of Mining and Energy is making a major effort to attract domestic and foreign investment in this capital intensive industry. In order to attract the necessary investments in the geological research of mineral raw materials, successful tenders for concessions for research and exploitation of birth minerals, as well as three concessions for research and exploitation of copper, gold and accompanying mineralisation in the Black Summit area of Bora. In addition, about 70 authorisations for detailed geological research of all types of raw materials are issued annually. Large investments in travel and construction infrastructure have led to the opening of new and renewable existing reserves on dozens of quarrys, technical and architectural stones. One of the preconditions for achieving the high objectives set in the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which is a complete reconstruction of the mining sector, with the confidence of the private initiative, is certainly in adapting the current legislative and sublegal regulations to the modern way of organising and managing a mineral and raw material complex in the emerging conditions of market economy and competition. It has proved necessary to implement certain improvements to the current 1995 Mining Act and to several regulations and sublegal acts. It has also been shown that it is necessary to implement and modernise the work of the state administration through the establishment of a mining agency, as a technical and technical institution that needs to accept on its shoulders all the more and more jobs resulting from this established concept of mining industry. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, as I said, the current Mining Act is basically well-set and treats the area of mining in a modern way and enables the development of the mineral sector on a market basis. However, in the application of this law, the ministry has seen certain shortcomings and inaccuracies. Due to these facts, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a proposal to amend and supplement this law, which is now in front of you. What are the basic amendments to the Mining Act? First of all, a fee for the use of mineral raw materials. An amendment to Article 16 which regulates the fee for the use of mineral raw materials is proposed to make payment enforceable, because in this existing law it is inaccurately formulated. The new proposal contains world experience on how to calculate the fee and determines its relative height, i.e. percentage and fee. The need to specify the level of compensation in the Mining Act stems from the need to know the relevant elements of fiscal policy and in the early stage of geological research, as well as the decision to open mines by the economic factors investing in this area. The compensation funds are mostly part of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget -- 60%, and the smaller part of the municipality's budget -- 40%, so the funds allocated in this relationship will flow into these budgets. Part of the funds will be poured into the AP Vojvodina budget. This is due to the fact that most of the mines in our country are located in devasted areas, and the funds promote the work of local self-government. It also ceases to apply to the law on the use of goods of general interest in respect of the compensation for the use of coal, oil and natural gas. Another key amendment to the existing law is the establishment of a mining agency. The mining agency will have the following jobs: the creation of a balance sheet of all mineral raw materials, the preparation of sublaws and rules on technical norms, the preparation of strategies in the management of the mining sector, the provision of information to economic operators and the promotion of investment in mining, the implementation of fees for the use of mineral raw materials, the issue of licences. Of the numbered, these first three, therefore, are some preparations and tasks for sublegal acts, are actually related to tasks that have been carried out at federal level for decades. The establishment of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro led to the implementation of these technical affairs under the authority of the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia. The payment and control of the fees for the use of mineral raw materials is a large and complex job that requires specific knowledge, skill and technical equipment so that this job can be effectively carried out. The mining profession is, I move on to the part where the licenses are one of the few technical professions where no license system was introduced. Due to the great specificity and complexity of the problem, we believe that the best solution is to entrust the administrative business of issuing licences to an independent and professional institution as a mining agency. It is predicted that the agency employs up to 15 people, including the department in the AP Vojvodina, with experts mostly in the mining and economic direction. The establishment of a mining agency will make it more efficient and transparent in the field of mining. When it comes to licences, the intention is, therefore, to create a framework for the introduction of this system of licences through the amendments to this law and thus to strengthen the system of responsibility in the scope of the profession. Licences for carrying out mining work and monitoring of mining works, mining project design licenses and technical control licenses shall be provided. In addition, conditions for the issue and withdrawal of the exploitation authorisation are further established. Instead of so-called. the project of exploitation, as one of the necessary grounds for granting approval, requires a feasibility study under the new proposal. A sublegal act regulating the content of a feasibility study will be adopted immediately after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Mining Act. The company which has been granted approval and the Ministry will conclude a contract closer to defining the rights and obligations related to the exploitation process, and in particular the rights and obligations to take measures to ensure general security, environmental protection, as well as other measures prior to the exploitation of certain mineral raw materials. Only approval shall cease to apply: at the request of the undertaking, the permanent suspension of exploitation, the expiry of the period on which the mineral raw material is given on the use or termination of the contract. We also seek to move closer to the office of the conditions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for our own purposes by amending and supplementing the law. In this way, an increased amount of broken stone, adornment stone, sand, gravel, clay was allowed, but the conditions of authorisation and control were strengthened. In relation to the existing solution, there is a distinction between a legal person and a natural person who exploits the number of raw materials for their own purposes, in terms of quantity. Finally, one of the major changes is the abolition of members 14 and 15, from the principle of legal certainty of investment. These legal principles apply in all sectors of industry and in all countries of the world where there is a rule of law, and therefore there is no justification for a derogation from these principles in the case of the mineral sector. In particular, this means that the right of exploitation is acquired exclusively by an investor who has conducted geological research, without tendering and the right to compensation for the funds invested. In the real conditions of the market economy, businesses do not invest huge financial resources in the geological research of mineral raw materials in order to satisfy some professional curiosity about the construction and composition of the earth’s crust, but to discover new and expansion of existing reserves, and exploitation and profit are the ultimate objective of each company. The abovementioned members of the existing law have not so far been applied for obvious reasons. Finally, the process itself and the tender and other requirements when it comes to this procedure are otherwise in the Law on concessions. Therefore, the current Mining Act, I stress, is not bad, but for reasons of inapplicability of essential elements such as charge, or compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, needs to be amended, perfected in accordance with practice in other countries and trends that otherwise exist in the mining profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24949	Thank you, Mr. Naumov. First, do the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) First came the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Dragan S. Jovanovic, and then Mr. Branislav Rankic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24950	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Mining Act for three rational reasons. The first reason is because it is a fundamental law that is good and good-quality in this area, the second reason is that we have a proposal to amend and supplement which aims to improve the application of this law and its operational application and the third reason is that our parliamentary group positively assesses one continuity of the activities of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. To remind you, since the adoption of the Energy Law and the adoption of the Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, it is the only strategy that has been adopted in this assembly; and to mention one negative phenomenon, which is that we have not adopted a strategy of economic development so that the energy strategy is adopted in one complicated way, which is alternatively, depending on several elements that this strategy has not given. Let's get back to the law. The Mining Act certainly represents a strategic document that regulates an extremely important area in the Republic, and I appreciate that all these changes and additions should result in the final and necessary creation of conditions for greater investment in general in the Republic, and especially in this area that many other areas that can relate their activities to mining activities. Mining is an activity that is present across Serbia; at this point we have about 200 locations in the Republic where any ore, any oil, anything else is exploited. In any case, over 20,000 families in this moment in the Republic live on this area, if not more. And we certainly have hundreds of places where research is currently being done in this area. I'd like the mining area, just in a few sentences, to look right at this point, and that's energy. We know that our base primary energy or base energy reserves in almost 99% make up coal resources, and slightly less than that, about 92%, make up so-called. low-quality lignites, whose land is abundant. Of course, it is also known that out of that amount of about 13 billion tons of coal, only about 14% is bound to the colliberal carbon base, and only about 3.3% to the skeletal base. I would like to point out that these reserves produce more than half of the total electricity produced in our Republic. I note this because later I want to say a few words on the subject, so I simply position that activity in that sense. We've heard about the basic proposals for amending and supplementing this law. What I would like to point out, and perhaps even to a few specific dilemmas, first of all refers to the regulation of the payment of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, as well as the regulation of the rights and obligations of companies which are granted the authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I think that the agency that will be formed to a large extent is similar to the agencies that we have already formed and that her tasks are similar, but it is worth mentioning that one of the basic tasks is related to the issues of developing a strategy for the management and development of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Serbia, and that speaks enough about how important this area is. However, I just want to say a few words about this matter of compensation. In the amendment, we have that these fees will range from 1% to 5% to the calculated value of total income, meaning 1% for coal, 5% for non-metallic raw materials and raw materials intended for construction materials, and other areas range between these limit values from 1% to 5%. I want to point out one possible consequence that I see, and above all, it concerns larger companies or companies that will be treated in the future in the application of this law. First of all, I would like to quote the position of Article 1 of the 16th where it is explained that the total income will be determined by compensation. It reads this: "The total income of Article 2 represents the amount that the company generates from the used or sold mineral raw materials, determined on the basis of the principle of cause of income and expenditure, in accordance with the accepted international standards and the real market value of the mineral product used by the undertaking. "It is quite clear what it says in this attitude, however, I want to point to the following: it is necessary to say and to have a clear knowledge that we at this point in the area of work of companies that are not yet able to market business by the owner of the state. I specifically think about the production of electricity where we said that we expect the market to work in the next few years, we even define it as our obligation, but realistically, that's not the case. We are witnessing that the product, or electricity, remains very tightly controlled by the state. What's going on out there? What I said at first through numbers, let's say, an example of the surface spears of the Colubara. It is widely known that over 25 million tonnes of coal is being dug there annually, it is large quantities, and they value the unit of their product from the price of one kilowatt hour of electricity. In no way can we say that they are subject to universal recognition and universally accepted international standards, because the price of their product is still below any level of internationally recognised prices. So their total income is formed on the basis of still state-controlled prices, and the very fee that will be determined on a percentage basis relative to the total income has such a characteristic. I'm not sure if any other companies that are going to be approved in the application of this law for the exploitation of mineral raw materials will not be able to establish their prices, again, according to widely accepted international standards. Probably will. And that's that inequality I'm pointing to, and I think it's going to be related to the damages of our biggest producers and our largest companies that are going to use mineral raw materials. The second thing I'd like to say in that sense is the fact that in this distribution compensation is proposed to be a 60-40% ratio. We had today the Industry Committee that we talked about and I think that the amendment that was submitted to this part of the amendment and the supplement, that this relationship is 50-50, makes sense; when the debate on amendments is probably going to say something more about it. Why does it make sense? We are witnessing that still the biggest problems in the middle appear precisely in those municipalities and areas where direct exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out, and I think it is quite realistic that at least 50% of the compensation that is defined in that environment can be planned by some other developmental direction or something else. In any case, in this way local self-government is put ahead of a higher level of responsibility to dispose of these funds according to its plans and programmes. I don't want to say now that the law that's no longer going to apply, and as far as the fees these companies have been paying, that's the law on the use of goods or whatever it's called, it's been pretty messy and we've had a great variety in the separation of these funds, especially in their purposes. I consider this a positive change, which I think should be supported in this 50-50% ratio. I just want to say a few words about the last position that stands in this article, which points to the distribution of these funds. I have to say that I'm not very clear on what I'm thinking, I'd like the minister, if he finds it appropriate, to explain it a little bit. He writes: "The way this member's fee is paid closer determines the minister in agreement with the finance minister. "I thought the quality of this member was precisely that the area of payment of this fee was regulated in a way that, by applying the law through one automation, this rather large issue was resolved. Referring to the agreement of ministers in my opinion significantly reduces the quality of the law itself. If it's a matter of agreement, then it leaves the possibility of getting rid of a case to case, which I don't think is good. I may not have understood this attitude correctly, but at least it sounds vague and I have the impression that it does not fit the quality of the member himself. I would just like to note that there is also one dilemma about erasing Articles 14 and 15, which the minister explained in his presentation. In fact, these members arranged the area of approval for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. This was arranged in a way to explore tenders and to collect offers, and that those organisations and companies that had the right to research under equal conditions participate in a competition to gain the right to exploitation, and if someone else gets that right, then they have the right and the possibility to seek their funds back. And it wasn't so bad, either, but I agree that in these new conditions, it can represent a certain slowdown in the process itself. However, there is now another set of circumstances, which I think is complicated by the overall work. Namely, the right to research is subject to regulation of the second law, and it is the law on geological research. Now we have a situation that can almost be absurd. So one law regulates the question of research. There comes an organization, a foreign institution that invests in researching large financial resources and receives certain results and seeks the right to exploit, and the approval for exploitation is given on the basis of this Mining Act that we are talking about today. It is theoretically possible that the Ministry of Mining and Energy or from the position of this law that we don't even know that someone has been given the right to research, which is probably not the case, but I'm talking purely about formal phenomena, so it's only tomorrow that this company or this institution appears with a request for approval for exploitation. My recommendation to the Minister and the Ministry is to think about it a little bit more. I think that this Law on Geological Research should in some way contribute to this legislative regulation, to centralise and to have in one place all procedures and all procedures concerning this area and to approach the problem in a unique way. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on that right now, but in the press we've seen, which is good and affirmative, that the first concession on research and exploitation, after 70 years, we've already had the British-Australia firm Rio Tinto, which has already been written about, invests more than 20 million euros in research and that it's still about 120 million euros to be invested in the construction of mines and plants for the production of refined baby acid powder and that it's an investment that's going to open hundreds of jobs tomorrow. The phenomenon is extremely affirmative, but I think there is room in the formal relationship to think that this legislation is approaching one law, given that it refers to the problem in general. I repeat once again that the SPS parliamentary group, with all these remarks I think there is room to talk about, will support this draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24951	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister has given us mostly three reasons why amendments and additions to the 1995 Mining Act are being proposed. In the SRS' view, indeed one reason is the Agency's introduction and that's what's new in relation to the existing law. It is also new licensing, i.e. three types of licences issued by the Agency. A number of members have been deleted, and some have been redefined and it is mainly redefined by members done with less expertise than it is in the existing law. Namely, what's this about? The lack of an existing law is primarily in that the area of preparation of mineral raw materials has not been processed and it is contained only in one member where it defines what it is to prepare mineral raw materials, while the exploitation of mineral raw materials is dedicated to many members of the law, a whole chapter. I will remind the minister that the directions to the mining college are the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the preparation of mineral raw materials, that they are being studied by objects that are completely different and that the exploitation of mineral raw materials represents the exploitation and extraction of mineral raw materials by the time they start preparing for further metallurgical processes, mainly. The miners say PMS, LMS, and when they say PMS, first of all they mean the fleet in the mining jargon. So it is incomprehensible that both the previous law and this one have only one member relating to the preparation of mineral raw materials. By the way, what was defined as the preparation of mineral raw materials under the existing law was much better solved, because by changing this member in which you say what it is that preparation of mineral raw materials introduced and the concept of peletisation and accumulation. I will remind you that it is a clean metallurgical process and that from the moment the fleet produces the concentrate, its processing represents metallurgy, and because of the investment in certain metallurgical aggregates, for example in the Smederevo ironworks, the concentrate is not adjusted, so it is used on the peletization or for the accumulation of the peletisation machines to create pellets that are suitable for the consumption, in order to achieve the process of folding of concentrates. So I don't know which experts were behind this to suggest putting these two technological processes into the process of preparing mineral raw materials. What's also new in this law is that the bill promoter erased the term "real treasure" and replaced it with the term "mineral raw materials". I'll tell you that these are two different concepts, first of all, because some of the mineral treasure only in the second stage of processing becomes mineral raw material. It's an example of oil. It's only when it's removed and started in phase two that it becomes mineral raw material, and until then it's a mineral treasure. If you weren't sure whether or not it was necessary, here's your explanation, in terms of law making, where you're talking about ore treasure. So you deleted it from the first article and replaced it with mineral raw materials, but when you talk about the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to this law, you use the term "real treasure", of course, because of the knowledge that you can't always replace it with the term "mineral raw materials". You also stated here that this is a preparation, a basis for issuing a concession. We have a concession law without these changes. There's nothing to say about concessions here. Of course, these changes will not lead to an increase in the number of concessions issued by the Republic of Serbia, nor a reduction, as it has been regulated by some other laws. And without these changes, you can see for yourself that for three locations at the Black Summit at Bora, we practically set concessions. By the way, I'll tell you that one of those locations is located in a populated area, and that's part of the left of Lake Borski, where there's a huge number of cottages. I think the President of the Assembly has already received tens of thousands of signatures from the citizens of Bor who will strongly protest it, and these days there will be expert gatherings in Boro for the award of concessions in populated areas, which should not be done. You said that in the last few decades, especially in the last ten or fifteen years, there has been a decline in activity in this sector. In the case of RTB Bor, I will tell you that since 2001, there has been a drastic decline in all mining activities. Speaking of what happened after 2000, I have to give you an example that by then, monthly production, even at the time of the bombing, when the country was under sanctions, at RTB Bor from its own reserves was about 30,000 tons of copper a month. Today it is about 3,000 tonnes, with the largest amount of copper obtained from imports and concentrates, while by 2000 only one quarter was an import concentrate. Let me tell you in numbers, and then I'll tell you why I quote numbers, how important that is. Then the price of copper was about $1,600 on the London Stock Exchange, and today it's over $5,000. According to the production that RTB Bor once had from domestic concentrates, with the people who were employed there before the restructuring process (which, by the way, is completely illegally introduced into RTB Bor and there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, I was talking about), we could, at the terms of that time, and at this price, count that we could make a total income of $540 million per year from our own reserves. Mr. Minister, who decided that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the previous government and in this, that the state would give up more than half a billion dollars, such a huge foreign income, by in a perfiduous way destroying the practical functioning of the entire RTB Bor, above all because of the revolution of crisis headquarters, bringing incompetent and unprofessional people to jobs until then, and that is another thing that this law, unfortunately, will not give any effect with all changes. By the way, there's a story spread in Bor about the future privatisation of RTB Bor and I can tell you that local television of course doesn't inform anything about it, we don't have a local press release, no one from the government finds fit to inform, and there's a rumor spreading, no one knows. RTB, appointed by the government, says it will be called on March 1st; March 1st has passed, and it is not called; someone speaks on May 1st, some speak on June 1st, and this has been going on since 2000 and 2001, respectively, since the introduction of the restructuring process. Why has the Constitutional Court ruled that the process was unlawfully implemented in RTB Bor, and the main consequence of this process is that more than 5,000 people have lost their jobs with minimum severances? Because restructuring is being conducted in those systems whose debts exceed the value and in systems where a privatisation tender has been launched, and no one has shown up in that tender. There was no other case in Bor, but there was someone of his own free will, so he could appoint board members there, since the administrative authorities were suspended, from the then and present authorities, and that he could control what was going on with RTB Bor... I would like to ask in the form of a parliamentary question, that someone would answer me why the Institute of Copper in Bor, who regularly recorded the production of gold in RTB Bor by October 2000, has no record of gold production since October, nor of what is happening with that gold. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia, several people from the Democratic Party, whose man is the director of the Institute of Copper in Bor, certainly have and it is unfortunate that they hide them from the public, would be very interesting. What we resent about changing you, besides avoiding the term "real treasure", even though you later used it to change certain definitions. In Article 2, where you are described what is ore treasure, you have stated that these are organic raw materials in a solid, liquid and gasy state. In primary school children learn that there are three basic aggregate states: solid, liquid and gas, but later through schooling, especially in technical professions, it is found that there is a plastic state, that there is a state of plasma, that there are some other states, and also materials in a dilute form. You had this in the existing bill and you deleted it, which is a much more suitable, wider and quality definition than the one you put on, unfortunately, explaining what mineral raw materials are. I'll also tell you that in the field of metallurgy there is an entire object that studies the processing of metals in plastic condition. The plastic state is an aggregate state, you shouldn't have deleted it in law, because that division is very bad. I've already said that you've listed something here in the preparation of mineral raw materials that certainly doesn't belong, but in article 7, you left out something that those who have dealt with mining know, and these are people who have opened mines around the world and Serbia for years. It's just that you've thrown out some work as part of the mining work. I will read the whole article in order to make it clearer: "Road works, within the meaning of this law, are considered works on: making drilling; in wells and making all horizontal, hairy and vertical cave rooms; reconstruction of mining facilities, facilities and devices; opening, developing and exploiting beds... ". You put "opening, working" on "preparation, opening." So, you've been avoiding it, and those who do this job say it's one of the most important parts of doing mining work. You also kicked out in Article 8; instead of "objects, plants and devices" you only put "objects and plants". The device is something that may belong to the facility, not necessarily, but also has its place in the overall process in mining or any other work. Then in article 10, you have a very ghastly definition that truly the Serbian language doesn't know, and as much as I've tried to understand it, I haven't succeeded. You had a nice definition that said: "The company, or another legal person who is exploiting mineral raw materials, is obliged to do and explore at the same time in order to restore the reserve of mineral raw materials... ". That was quite clear, but you "researched to restore mineral raw materials reserves" deleted and wrote "research for innovation of reserve status". Believe me, when I spoke to those who are mining engineers, they said they didn't understand this, what is "exploring to innovate the reserve state". I mean, if they understand, they don't agree with that idea. Article 15 has been expelled. Why? "The granting of mineral raw materials to use is done by public competition or by collecting offers. "What is wrong with it, if mineral raw materials are already given for use, is foreseen by the law to make public competition or collecting offers; why have you deleted it and how will this be done now? Will someone from the government now say there's no competition, there's no collecting bids, there's this one and that one for determining certain jobs? That's not good either. You did not define well in Article 16a of the law on the allocation of funds to local self-government and the Republic on behalf of funds obtained from compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, where you changed that percentage, which is good, for the benefit of local self-government 40% and for the benefit of the Republic 60%. However, when it comes to autonomous province, you say that 40% of the Republic's income is and 60% of the province's income is autonomous. In the autonomous province, there are units of local self-government on whose territory is the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Let's say, if it's done in one municipality, then it's not clear whether that municipality will get 40% as they get in the Republic of Serbia or whether the Autonomous province will decide to say split, so 30 to you, 30 to us 30. Then it wouldn't be good, because the law would be discriminatory towards municipalities in Serbia. Then some municipalities in central Serbia would get 40%, and these others wouldn't. So you should have listed here if the Republic has 40%, 40% of the income will also have the municipality as a unit of local self-government, and 20% if you're willing to give up will practically be incomes in the Autonomous Province budget. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, that our mining is in decline. And if you are in a situation, please contact the director of Kinotheka; I think they have films from the beginning of the last century where Serbia is practically made up of nudity, there are no forests, where Povlen, Malen and other mountains in western Serbia are naked, where Serbia has been exposed to erosion and skating. Of course, in hundreds of years, that condition has improved. Why? Because it was then that it started working intensively to open mines in Serbia and that a number of mines with underground exploitation, primarily coal mines, managed to replace the use of forest for heating. For years, however, it has been said that the underground exploitation of coal mines is not worth it, that the state cannot subsidise anything and then we come into a situation where the forest is cut in cold, that Serbia is practically re-entering a period when our mountains or mountains will be bare and we will have problems again, and we are already meeting them, such as the rinks. Why would the agency issue mining licenses – this could have been resolved in a different way. The agency didn't have to be here. I find it very interesting that there are no mining engineers among the members of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering. So, I have paper in front of me; among other things, the Engineering Chamber of the Republic of Serbia issues licenses for responsible contractors, where the number of engineers of architecture, engineering, traffic, forestry, hydrogeology, construction engineers, graduate electrical engineering engineers, geodesy engineers, graduate geology engineers, but mining engineers are nowhere to be found. Responsible designers are also listed by engineers of engineering, geodesy, forestry, etc., but mining engineers are nowhere to be found. Why aren't mining engineers members of the Republic of Serbia Engineering Chamber? I'd like you to ask around. And if the Engineering Chamber can issue licenses to all of those for certain works, there are also responsible performers, responsible designers, why can't it be for mining engineers? When it comes to members of the Engineering Chamber who are classified in this alphabetical order, you have responsible planners, where there are also no mining engineers, responsible urbanists, where there are also no responsible designers, where there are no mining engineers and responsible workers, where there are also no mining engineers. All in all, this law will make no difference in the situation of mining better. This one didn't do it either. Whether or not to adopt it, the situation in mining will be as it is, because mining cannot function only as an economic branch and because it is closely linked to all economic activities in one society. In order to be able to use mining products, or what is the subsequent consequence of mining processing, it would have to have money for that, it would have to be more employment, other economic operators would have to work. Then we'd get into a situation if we could really recover and mining and that one number of those mines that used to work, and now they're closed... By the way, seven caves work with underground exploitation, two surface spears. You have an active metal mine in Milanovac and RTB Bor, a copper mine and non-metallic mine in Bor. You have an experimental mine, so-called Nodular exploitation or underwater in Kovin, which is in the experimental phase, and the rest is a dead sea when it comes to mining. It's sad, remember the Zajac mine near Loznica, the lead and zinc mines at Ljubovija and a large number of other mines that worked successfully and where people fed families, now it's at the stop stage. You know that mostly in the cave exploitation, when it comes to metal mines, it often works with aggressive environments that bite machines and devices, and if you leave one period out of operation afterwards you can put all of this into old iron, and our desire is to restore mining, because a large number of families in Serbia live on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24953	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Mr. Rankic, that parliamentary question was addressed directly to the minister. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. Before I give the first word from the list of registered speakers, Milisav Petronijevic, after whom Rodoljub Gačević will have the word, so I give Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Business, on the basis of Article 93. Rules of Procedure, a word to MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my Lazarec municipality lives, everyone employed in Kolubara, out of mining and energy, of course I should define this bill. I would like to point out some objections as to this bill of amendments and additions to the Mining Act. In fact, I would draw particular attention to Article 16, which is said to be – compensations that are set aside, five percent; these are extremely large funds. Of course, it takes a large part to re-cultivate the degraded land. In Kolubara, unfortunately, I have to say that, a little more than six thousand acres of degraded land has not been rectified, so it's terrible to look at what it looks like. In this proposal, however, a slightly higher percentage of the allocation of these funds is now a good proposal, but 60 per cent should be allocated to the Republic and 40 per cent to local self-government. In the local self-government was now on the SO Lazarjevac debate where the funds were discussed, which the local communities were getting, etc. There are great injustices in this sense that for years these funds have been misused and are not used for the right purposes – to make ecologically polluted environments of protection and to do something for this municipality and for local self-government, of course, if it has in mind the health status of people in the municipality of Lazarec, like all diseases there are and how many sick citizens. Therefore, more investment needs to be made in environmental problems and less resources to end up in personal pockets; much more control than it has ever been. It should also be noted that, according to this proposal, private persons whose property has coal, non-metallic, or other precious substances can exploit it. I don't think that's precisely defined in this proposal, and I think the state should still have greater control so as not to introduce any major chaos into this area. I also have a problem with this proposal because this mentions the processing of sand and cheddars and some other matter that are more related to other matter than mining; I think this is too high in this bill. We know that the largest coal sites are located in Kosovo and Metohija and that all of this is happening around Kosovo and Metohija, of course, is out of interest to take over materially, to occupy it, so I ask the question to Mr. Minister -- how will the government solve problems related to these coal sites, in general, to a complete energy system, how will we function? Will we be entitled as hosts under this law and by all laws, European and world rules to have our own property? Also, one of the questions would be, many times, mentioned and manipulated by individual ministers, would there be a continuation of the work on Colubari B. My specific parliamentary question is – will there be a continuation of the work on Colubari B and when? It was planned, because it has coal reserves for 50-60 years, because it was a thermal power plant and it's built on coal, and there's a possibility it's combined gas and coal, which is not exclusively and we have a much longer period than it is 50-60 years. Also, I'd like to draw attention... (President: Time. Since time won't allow me, I'll take the chance when they're changed, and we'll do more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24955	Excuse me, Mr. Stevanovic, would you like a parliamentary question to separate himself from the stenogram and turn himself in as a parliamentary question or did you just refer it to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24956	I officially refer these two questions, concerning Kosovo and Metohija and Kolubara B. I would like to be done in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24957	All right. That's why I just asked Mr. Rankic. In that case, the stenogram will give you a formula tomorrow morning and you'll check the formulation. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich. Then MPs Rodoljub Gačević, Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24958	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the SPS's position on the proposed amendments and additions to the Mining Act was presented by Mr. Dragan Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, expertly and competently. It can draw a conclusion from this, which concludes his discussion, that the SPS parliamentary groups will support changes and additions to this law. Given that counterpart Dragan Jovanovic has provided all the details from all angles and our relationship to the amendments to this law, I will keep your attention only in one piece. With great respect to the need to regulate the conditions and way of exploiting the mineral treasure, in order to perform more effectively the work of exploiting mineral raw materials, I will focus my attention on the second part of which this law regulates, which is a compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. It is for these reasons that law-making is to see that it attaches special importance to it. No matter what this law applies, the cost of business and business will be higher, although it can be relatively. I think it's a much bigger and more important effect that, by applying this law, a member referring to the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, income in those municipalities where it's used, will be exploited by mineral raw materials. There's a lot of reason. Even though the previous law also regulated compensation for the use of mineral raw materials... However, when it comes to heights, he transferred it to the government; the government, by its regulation, appeared to me in 2002, determined, I will specifically talk about coal, 3% for broad consumption, and 2% for the second. Even though it was already a 1995 law, and I think it was a good law, a fixed ratio of funds belonging to the Republic -- 80% and 20%, respectively, we have the fact that it's simply not applicable. We're free of percentages, we're free of charge, if that doesn't apply. The first question relating to this part of the law regarding fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is – no longer allowed to apply, otherwise it would be pointless to pass the law, to regulate relations etc. There are many reasons why municipalities need to exploit mineral raw materials to pay that fee. I'll take an example, Colubara. Areas of the Lazarec municipality and partly Uba and Lajkovec have significant energy potentials based on which large surface carbon-exploitation spears were developed, and of course a powerful thermoenergy system "Nikola Tesla" A and B and Velika Crljeni. That's nice. But that vast area has suffered and is constantly suffering great damage. So we respect the justification and need to develop so much potential, both the spears and the thermo-energy systems, but in this area the land is fully constructed, degraded. The entire settlements are moving out, cemeteries are moving out, infrastructure has been developed, these roads are not even juicers anymore, and the environment is very dangerously degraded. It's just that these municipalities have a fee for not telling the damages. Data are frantic; large quantities of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater polluting air, land, underground and surface waters are daily excreted. You will ask me, and what remains? Nothing. And air, and land, and water, and both. The dumps are not treated properly, so whenever an unfavourable direction of wind is the entire area of the pits with large amounts of ash. The entire settlements have been threatened, so not just the part where the coal excavation is being done, but all the surrounding settlements. Of course, you will say, well, part of these means should be compensated by the application of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. It's not controversial, of course we supported it and we should, but I'm talking about this part of the fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Let's just say, problems arise with wasteland, fecal waters, coal dust, waste water. The whole area is a black point of ecologicality in Serbia. So, on the one hand, we certainly have a need for great potential for coal production, the thermo-energy potential for electricity production, but also this country has an obligation to return to these municipalities some of the funds that are obtained at the expense of the exploitation of mineral raw materials, because of itself and its own development. Again, when I just said, the relative thing is whether it will be higher costs, those costs will just be predetermined that you can plan the business. By the way, they were partly, but versed, as they had influence. It's not disputed, it's not Kolubara, it's not Tesla, they helped the area, but it's something else. And it's even worse when politics gets involved, so it becomes a matter of political marketing. Here's an example in Obrenovac: the municipal government is doing DS; it calls the CEO of TE "Nikola Tesla" and says they need some water in a village, and he says – okay, we'll do it. They make, Nenad Bogdanovic comes, opens up that water line, and the whole story leads to nonsense, except for marketing. Therefore, Mr. Minister, in your activity, in the area that you cover, most of all in the EPS, the main levers are still being held by the DS people, they are very loathsome about this government and this government. Now at least by applying this law, that matter will be arranged and it will be known how much it takes to give, how it should be given. And here we have one question, and I just want to keep your attention on it, because I think that's the lack of this proposal. In fact, Article 16 provides that the 60 per cent fee belongs to the Republic of Serbia and 40% to the municipalities where the exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out. Of course, I absolutely support that proposal to make this relationship 50:50%, as I heard today during this debate, but that relationship has also been taken into account when it comes to Vojvodina, expressed the specificities of the AP Vojvodina. I don't even know if it's justified enough, but I don't understand it either, and that's not the question. The question here is why is Belgrade's specificity not shown, for what reason? Belgrade, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, is fulfilling the functions of the municipality, so Belgrade is a municipality. The Lazarec municipality has no municipality function, it is a city municipality in Belgrade. Such a solution as is provided for by this law will be such that the 40%, or the 50% god, goes to the owner of Belgrade, Nenad Bogdanovic, does not go to the Lazarevic municipality. It is possible, of course, that when income is determined... Excuse me, Lazarec is a city municipality and it would be fair, at the expense of the use of mineral raw materials and exploitation, that the fee belongs to that municipality, in this case, more precisely, the city municipality of Lazarec. How, Minister, do we solve this issue, because there's no category of city hall here? You can probably say -- you know what, it's supposed to be that community. In Belgrade, nothing is understood, in Belgrade the government works on principle - Nenad Bogdanovic is the boss, and what belongs to others, depending on who is in power of any of the city municipalities; if the Democrats are in power, they will get more, and if they are not, they will get less. The purpose of this law is to degrade that degraded municipality, which degrades the environment, develops local infrastructure, destroying land, settlements and everything else. In fact, it also places responsibility on the municipality's neck to worry about the future of the municipality by using these funds, to worry not only about the development of local infrastructure, water, sewerage, roads, but also about the future of the municipality when one day coal exploitation disappears. I'm simply asking a question, since some sublegal acts are envisaged here, and I don't know why that other minister, about bringing in a sublegal act, make sure that there's a possibility or that an amendment be made in the course of this debate itself, it's quite all the same, the government can do it, but it's important to me that we understand each other. The Lazarevic municipality, the city municipality, should be a priority, not Belgrade, and will then see how much it will give Lazarevec. So, not to be too long, the essence of this whole story: from 1995 to 2006, 11 years of how the Mining Act works; for all that time, no compensation is paid. I don't count what I'm saying as an example, because it's not a fee, it depends on who manages. The bottom line is that these municipalities should be given all of this, because they suffer the greatest damage and the essence is, at last, that it should be given to the municipality, even if it was a city municipality, as is the case with the municipality of Lazarec in Belgrade. Of course, I repeat in the end, the SPS parliamentary group will support the amendments and additions of this law, and we insist on the answer to this, when it comes to the status of the city municipality, or the means to belong to the city municipality, rather than to the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24959	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a National MP Rodoljub Gačević and then a National MP, Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragovic, and then Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just heard Mr. Secretary's explanation, reasons for the amendments and additions to the Mining Act. I believe there are new mines in Serbia, but I am convinced that there are many more closed mines in Serbia, and it is not compared to open mines. Secondly, that the mining equipment is very outdated, that in poor condition there are reasons, and I believe that and I am fully convinced of all this, but the situation in this respect cannot be improved by the introduction of a new terminology in mining. Well, to start with these terms that are vague and strange to me as a technology engineer, and they're just making a bad picture, it's more of a blur on the whole termology and the whole area. It says the words "red treasure" are replaced by the words "mineral raw materials." I remember a definition from a high school that says, ore is a mineral from which in an economical way metal is obtained. Without this adjective "in an economic way", mineral is only a potential ore, and only with this definition is the ore, because iron is also in the salad, but salad is not iron ore. In this area, it is said: mineral raw materials and hydrocarbons in the country are in a state of gas. For my ideas, for my understanding, for the understanding of all the earlier older generations, it is incomprehensible that the gases are also minerals. I know minerals can be in a gas state, but in the sun, in Alpha Kentaur, in Sirius, where temperatures are one million degrees, but in these earthly conditions it can't be ore. We're talking about Earth, not extraterrestrial ore-exploitation conditions. Besides this, I don't think it's even a real goal to pass the law exactly as it is said and to improve something, but rather put it this way, change of terminology, in packaging one, and the main goal is actually to create these agencies as special organisations, etc. So, what you would say is "play around the jorgan's skin" to introduce this as the main goal and reason. And here's what it says -- the agency and the list of these jobs -- what the agency actually does. I don't see any reason for that introduction. There's a ministry, maybe there's a service that all these jobs can do. This is, for example, point 2) – monitoring and forecasting production trends and prices of stock and other products. Forecasting? Well, it's not an agency or a sports forecast, or a bookie, or a meteorological service. Why not say tracking and predicting, if there's something that wants to change, but some terminology that I don't know what it's for, just to make it feel like something's changed, something's been brought in, etc. Point 4) says – providing information on international movements and the best... I don't know. There's nothing about international movements, nothing like movement, any movement, any movement, any word that would define this, that there's a specifics to say with the movements of what. When it comes to the rights of natural persons to use some mineral raw materials, stone, gravel, sand, etc., physical faces can mean to use up to 300 meters cubic; this dimension of cubic meters is clear, but nothing stands here for which period. Whether this applies to one year, whether or not to apply for each application, means if a request is submitted then the decision is considered, so when it is exhausted if someone has accepted it, etc., pays the tax, in fact, without any compensation for personal needs, then that it can be renewed and another decision is made again. Or is it considered once in a lifetime? It's not specified by anything, to make it clearer, more precise. If there is already something to be made clear or in some law changes made, let it be indeed and certain. By the way, it's not a waste to mention some mistakes. For example, on page 2, he says "peletation and briquette"; I guess he means palletisation. But in order for the text not to go on like this again, this combination of letters still needs to be replaced. Further in Article 15, it is said: "The way this member's fee is paid is determined closer by the minister agreed with the finance minister. "If there's anything you want to complicate, I think this is on the right track, because there's not a minister standing here. He's setting up a minister, he's not standing anywhere that minister, but I assume he's the Minister of Ore and so on. I doubt it'll go away without an arbiter, that they'll be able to make a deal. I think we're just making this complicated. Why isn't the Minister of Mining appointed for that? It's got who's gonna follow how much further payment, what's gonna end up, etc. So it could be done that way and I think it would be much better and easier to write it that way. In Article 16a, I may not have understood well enough, but if it is said that from the compensation for the use of mining wealth 60% goes to the Republic, and 40% to the municipality whose territory is being exploited, and when it comes to the autonomous province, 40% to the Republic, and 60% to the Autonomous Province, it is not clear to me whether anything remains to the competent municipality whose territory is being exploited, or maybe it is regulated by special relations between the Autonomous Province and the Municipality, or if there is a solution to further compensate for these taxes. So, as far as this proposal is concerned, I would understand the changes that are aimed at new investments and attracting new investors from abroad or, for example, new concessions and so on. However, what is written and all these arguments have no real basis for all this, nothing is achieved. I think this is deception and blurry, that a lot of things aren't done right and that needs to be changed. I'd rather decide on, say, some law that will predict the following things: that the law prohibits the opening of mines that are dangerous to the environment, like nickels or cadmium. I read about it in the newspaper last year, there was a noise about it somewhere, Tara or Wekra Gora, for the concession was interested in an English firm, that within a hundred kilometers, the environment would be polluted, that it couldn't survive a plant or animal world, that it would be a desert, something like the Sahara. I don't suppose anyone wrote that in their head. Therefore, such things should be prohibited by law, not only by giving concessions to someone, but also by any use for our domestic purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24961	Thank you, Mr. Pantyhose. The word has a folk MP Natasa Jovanovic, then Ljubomir Kragovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24962	Thank you, Mr. President, although we are not in the Eurovision Song contest, which Serbia-Montenegro will not go to this year, that you need four or five names in advance to announce. It's enough to say next, now it's a colleague of Kragovic's after me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24963	I beg your pardon, I must explain to the MPs, many have thought the same as you. According to the new Rules of Procedure, a large number of MPs, since they are not required to attend the session, have been monitoring the monitors, and I have been citing more than one next speaker for several months, so that they can prepare and schedule their time in peace. It's just a matter of collegiation, nothing more than that. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24964	Thank you, Mr. President, although you can see for yourself that the list of the remaining speakers is from the list of SRS MPs. Everyone, for God's sake, is alive and well, in the O.R., and they're waiting for someone to seal their guns to say what's wrong with this law, and the law is indeed a disaster. We believe that the legal solution whose changes are now being done far better than the proposed one, and we cannot believe that Minister Naumov, as someone who, after the five-octobaric coup, was first in the coalition power with Zoran Djindjic, the Democratic Party and with this whole yellow mob click, and then, after that, as chairman of the EPS Management Board, was reportedly distanced from them, is now reaching for even more radical measures, but not in a positive sense, but in a completely negative way, when it comes to the Mining Act. It is amazing, Mr. Naumov, that you have not in one word rebelled, that you have not protested as a minister at a press conference, when you have already said today how important this law is, and you have referred it as a minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia as early as 25 October 2005 to the Assembly for consideration. As well as at what speed the law came on the agenda, so is the situation in mining in Serbia. What the esteemed fellow engineer Mr. Rankic said, not only has nothing changed six years ago, but it is not the end of it. What we have left of our mines... I say this on purpose because none of you, of the resolute ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, tends to mention some law, not the other autonomous province, Kosovo and Metohija, but only Vojvodina. It is likely that the ground has been prepared by the previously adopted Law on concessions and by the Business Society Act. Now, by abolishing members of the 14th and 15th previous laws and by establishing a mob lobby agency that will first... And let me tell you how it is spoken - RTB Bor, not Bora, as you say when you go to Bor, but Bor. Whether it's your lapus or you're convinced it's Bora, it's not, it's Bora. As far as mining and global politics have been going back 50 or more years, major mistakes have been made. At that time, the brozomania, in that communist time of the former SFRY, mostly the management personnel or the great directors in our mining complexes relied on the fact that the possibility of exploitation is enormous. Like Hamovic and Lazarevic today or this former Zoran Dracula, who is now engaged in the mugging and importing of copper and raw materials from Ukraine, suspicious quality, as well as processing in Bor, many of these communist personnel have since then, and then these same non-communists have continued to work since 2000, rich in mining torture by using their positions, through the London Stock Exchange, primarily through the trade of tones and tons of copper, to earn for themselves, for their pals. I must mention again the case of the famous Miodrag Savivić, who publicly admitted it, after the DOS brought him to power after October 5th, that he had one day lost $20 million of state money in the manager's kick-off, gambling on our RTB Bor copper, and had never been responsible for it until today, as many others who have now left the miners and members of their families behind. What is an exact data, and which probably did not have time to mention Mr. Rankic, I had the opportunity to visit Bor and Majdanpek and, together with him, who is also the chairman of our district board there, to visit all these places and today extremely poor citizens of Bora, is something he told me a few years ago. When I went there and asked him – in this process of restructuring, which has been determined by Djindjic's government, Vlahovic and other ministers, where Bor and the citizens of Bor will be found, he told me that it would probably be nothing, because it is preparing the ground for a variety of lobbyes that come to buy RTB Bor. "Rio Tinto", the Australian-English company, "Debis" from Germany, "Dandi" from Canada, which won concessions at the Black Summit, as well as the already mentioned Drakulić, who as an exclusive... And who knows how many of these exclusives will now be, since you have abolished the members of the 14th and 15th basic laws, who will be able to do whatever they want and to earn huge profits on the people's and mines' torments, above all, by robbing our country's mining wealth. The data from one lab since 1931-1932, which was done by German experts, which he was telling me about back then, is that besides these famous spears and bazaars, which are now closed and working on the edge, from which it could be earned, as he himself said in his presentation, half a billion dollars a year, there is the possibility of opening at least 7-8 more spears around Bor and the Old Mountain. Not only have you never gone out with that information, but the previous minister and ministers before you, because who cares at all. The best thing is, the mob comes, picks up their stuff, and the workers get fired from work, miners run out of bread. Then remember, and remember these words both Djindjic and his cabinet ministers, one of these "yellow" mobsters, to tell the miners in Bor that they could handle peanut production, so one furniture production plant was opened, so they were offered various alternatives. Not only can RTB Bor work full capacity with a half-billion-dollar income, as said counterpart Rankic, who came there to live and who wanted the best as an engineer, and trained at the mining college there, to provide the city, as well as many others who came, exceptional experts from that area, but there are opportunities for 7-8 more who are not open and who no one thinks about. That's what you do with all the potential the country has, both in scientific terms and in working potential. Just to remind you of the incredible disaster that has hit some parts of Serbia, when it comes to land erosion and this flood disaster. You know that in the daily press, one of the professors from the mining college (again a real parallel, what are these scientific workers from three institutes and two colleges in Bor and Belgrade will do now) said that when the agency takes over everything) it invented a kind of patent that in many localities, I think, in Italy and in some other areas in Europe, managed to set up some electric cars, through land-tightening, premeditated it to get to the rink. He said a nice man that not only his knowledge, which was untapped, really apologized to the professor if he followed the transmission, I forgot his last name, but also his other colleagues who were dealing with the issue, not the government of the Republic of Serbia, but said that when the first slides started, you quickly called him on the phone, your ministry and this "capital" Velje, but it was too late because, in that people's "better to prevent than to heal", everything must be thought of in time. It is not well thought out, because you are not in your presentation, nor are any government minister, mentioned the frantic information about our mines, or mineral sites located in occupied Kosovo and Metohija. What about it? Mr. Minister, if the general fact is that TE "Oilić" has been known before, while it was under the authority of the EPS, which is not now, because it's completely out of our power system, because it's under occupation, there's the management of an Irishman... The Cypriots do not have any idea that they are running full capacity, but they are tendingly Separatists and terrorists, who are now executive authorities, excluding Serbs with electricity for two, three or six months. It is better to ask the question when Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have electricity, not when they do not have it. Why isn't that what you're talking about? Why is it necessary to praise the Mining Act in this way and to set up an agency for these remaining seven spears in Serbia, when you are not interested in new finds, when you are obviously not interested in what will happen to Bora and when you are not interested, what a colleague spoke about earlier, how the Lazarec municipality will benefit, when it is indeed so in the statutes of the city of Belgrade, that the municipality, the Zemun and every Belgrade municipality has the status of an extended local community and everything will go to this mobic Bogdan's cash register. What I want to point out today and take advantage of the opportunity, since you've come, and we have submitted many amendments and we are particularly drawing public attention to the fact that there is no longer a system for collecting offers and applications for using sites, because you have abolished those members of the law. Mr. Minister, I want to tell you, today there was a word when it came to "Colubari," that it was completely incorrect information that you and your ministry went public with, and competent in the EPS, about the collection of electricity. It's not a April joke, but the new tariff system came into force on April 1st. Not only the new prices, but the new tariff system. Experts from the SRS employees in Serbia's Elektroprivred have calculated these days to make it look like this: high voltage, which means that of the 110,000 volts used by the Serbian economy, destroyed both under previous reach and your authority - the 22% increase. Where do you want worse information for the public and for the economy? You even went one step further, Mr. Minister, so you said, of course you are aware of it and you are not doing anything, because your party and the whole of Kostunica's government have allowed Hamovic and Lazarevic to be rich in stealing and reselling electricity, where you will have a worse message for the citizens and for the economy at all, than to say – there are no more countries to deal with any subsidies and to treat the price of kilowatt-hour as a social category, but we have to move to market conditions and the price is much higher in order for the production to be paid. You first have to deal with it, Mr. Minister – and before you, Mr. Markovic, who, to this day in front of the MPs, has not delivered a report on the work of the Survey Committee and on the robbery of citizens committed by Hamovic and Lazarevic – first of all, by the fact that this mob duo continues to do so, that Drakulić is doing this in Bor, which I was just saying, that who knows how many more Hamovic and Lazarevic and those from the Democratic Party and the whole of the former DOS are uninterruptedly wealthy. The mining work is tough and these hardworking people are being forced today, like these 7,000 unemployed in Bor, to live off some church girl, some pathetic social aid, while a bunch and a handful of mobsters get rich. Is there any vision for that eastern part of Serbia for you when you pass a law like this? Did you have this information that has a colleague, Rankic, from people from three institutes and colleges in Boro, that there are many more unopened and real copper sites? Is it normal for you to leave a part of the state like Kosovo and Metohija in such a way to NATO occupiers and Shiptar bandits who now hold power there without being able to react in time and to provide the Serbs with electricity, and to carry out this new tariff? The citizens don't know that, I have to tell them before that unpleasant surprise, but the shock comes with the first subsequent calculations: the relationship between the green zone and the blue zone has changed. Instead of the earlier 600 kilowatt-hours in the green zone, it is now from 1 April 350 kilowatts, and in blue it remains 1,600. In this difference between the green zone and the blue zone, when the average consumption of one household is calculated, which is done by economists who are employed in Serbia's Elektroprivred, and from the SRS are, the addition is not 15.14% for households, as you said, but 19.8% plus VAT. This is not only an extremely devastating situation for the citizens of Bor, for citizens of all Serbia, but this law and everything you've done as a minister so far, and this government, shows that you don't have a strategic national vision or what you're going to do in the field of mining, or what you're going to do in other areas of the economy and how you're going to deal with these problems that aren't your heritage, but you've nominated them when you were part of the coalition government. That is why we believe, and because of the solutions we have offered by submitting a large number of amendments to this law, that it is indeed time for the citizens of Bora, who will soon... And you will probably run along with Velja Ilic and the entire government then, I expect Kostunica himself to appear five times in Bora, as the president of the municipality is elected, to promise towers and cities. When you leave, say it's RTB Bor, not Bora. But for the citizens of all Serbia and for people who realize that you absolutely can't improve anything in the Serbian economy or in the sector you run, the best solution is to go to elections as soon as possible and to have professional and responsible people, who will also deal with the mafia in this sector, and Serbian radicals, come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24965	I am notifying, as I sent a report two years ago, and all three of the MPs and the MPs have them before them, and I am also informing that the next one will have the word of MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24966	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment and addition of the Mining Act is one cosmetic makeup that will not actually happen more specifically, no improvement will be made in the area of mining in Serbia. To quote the minister, he initially pointed out that mining and geological research have produced significant results in the past ten years, and then the next sentence – in the last decade, there has been a freezing of production due to unsatisfactory findings, due to percentages of ore in concentrates, etc. That's two sentences, one rules out. On the one hand, improvement and great progress, and on the other hand, closure and katans. This is probably an idea to justify why Bor doesn't work today, why Trepce doesn't work in Kosovo Mitrovica. We heard from more colleagues, and especially from Mr. Rankic, why Bor doesn't work, the reason is October 5th, the reason is crisis headquarters today Bor campes, and I'll remind you why it doesn't work. The blink was working, Mr. Minister, and when the Shiplars left the Trepcha combination. There are few Serbs left, but they have managed to replace and even double production. Trepca also worked during the bombing, and everything stopped when the occupier arrived, when an alleged peace mission called "merciful angel" came and no more exploitation of the ore in the Trepca combination. Secondly, I would like to ask you something, Minister - who has forbidden you to mention the words of Kosovo and Metohija? Because the law says: a member, a municipality, a local self-government and a Vojvodina; you do not mention Kosovo and Metohija in any single sentence, as if it were not in the state of Serbia. I resent that as a People's MP from Kosovo and Metohija. I'd like to remind you that there are a lot of mine treasures right on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, Trepca with its mines was the largest producer of lead and zinc in Europe, second in the world with production of accompanying metals, silver, gold, various alloys and finished products. He doesn't do anything today, thanks to the occupiers first. There is a thermal power plant in Obilić, scientists say there is lignite for a hundred-year exploitation. The site has a value of over $30 billion, and when the lignite is used in the production of electricity, the value of the site exceeds $50 billion in just one location around Obilić. These are all the figures that are just saying why Kosovo and Metohija are under occupation today. If we assume they spent five billion dollars to bomb Serbia, they'll probably only get 50 out of Obilić and justify their assets; not to mention the other mines, like the nickel mine in Glogovec, etc. I want to remind all of you here that the combination of the Trepce fifties last century participated with 20% of the budget of the then SFRY. We all remember, and then how strong Trepca was, those passwords of the Shipar separatists, students when they boycotted and closed in the mines -- "Trepca is being built for Belgrade". One resource Serbia must not forget and must take care of so that the resource will eventually start exploiting and bring improvement not only to the people of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and the environment, but also to the whole state of Serbia. What exactly is changing here in the Mining Act? Only two items change. One is compensation, one is only two digits. Earlier, there were 80 per cent going to the Republic of Serbia, 20 per cent to local self-government or municipalities, and now it's changing to say that 60% to the Republic of Serbia, 40% to local self-government. Another variant: 40% to the Republic of Serbia, 60% to the AP to Vojvodina, and no mention of Kosovo and Metohija anywhere. There is confusion here and I ask the question of what is the difference between local self-government in Vojvodina and Serbia or anywhere else. I guess it's the same law on local self-government, too. And why the detachment of these 60 percent of the AP Vojvodina? The question is, if we know what the current composition of the government in Vojvodina is, will those funds be passed to the local self-government where the explosion is being carried out. The second reason is the opening of the mining agency. An agency that is too high, which will only burden citizens of Serbia, in which the job will be found by party friends of the current ruling furniture. You forget that we also have a mining college and a mining institute, which could all these jobs, with the orders of the Minister of Mining, to carry out. The agency is just one excess apparatus that wants to burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like one thing to say, and that is the problem that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and today do not have electricity. It's a very complex problem, but imagine yourself not having electricity for three days, and then you'll see how hard it is to live. There are various efforts to do this, you have tried; on the one hand we hear that there is resistance from this organisation that was formed in Kosovo and Metohija, so-called. KEK, on the other hand, the Ministry of Mining, and then comes up with some alleged shooting, they imported electricity from Bulgaria, not let the Ministry of Mining transfer the current; the Serbian Ministry is offering electricity, they won't take it. I don't know, what's main, what's heard, is that there's no electricity because you're not paying. The ministry better allocate funds to pay Serbs for electricity in Kosovo and Metohija than to form a mining agency. I would recommend that you deal with it in the future, no matter what the winter is, the current is necessary for life, and now it is gone, there are very large restrictions, we have little attention and to focus more attention to allow Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija at least to have electricity, if nothing else, 12 out of 24 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24967	Zlatan Jovanovic has a word and then Radisa Ilic, Veroljub Arsic, and Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the proposed amendments and additions to the Mining Act, I recognized a few, in my opinion, key things. The first is a mining agency that has never existed before, which is being educated by this bill. As far as I could see from what was written in the bill, this agency came in kind of like collateral damage or order to have an agency here too, because I don't see any real authority, jurisdiction. Of course, it will come as a budget consumer on the burden of the citizens of Serbia, on the burden of the budget, but once again I say - I do not see what its specific competences are. We'll start in a row. The Agency shall carry out tasks relating to: 1) participation in the creation of a strategy for the management and development of mineral raw materials of the Republic of Serbia. That means it's part of some team and some process. Under 2) monitoring and forecasting of production trends and prices of stock exchanges and other mineral raw materials in the country and abroad. Again, tracking means prognosis, something that's not concrete. Point 3) participation in the creation of a balance sheet of all mineral raw materials. There's still some participation without a specific task. Point 4) providing likely information is probably a printing error, about international movements and best practice in the field of mining. So, something that's a college act or optional. Point 5) re-participation in the organisation of seminars and promotional activities in the field of mining, provision of consulting services and periodic issue of informants from the domain of their work. One propaganda job. Point 6) re-participation in the preparation of concession documents for the exploitation and exploration of mineral raw materials; point 7) re-participation in the preparation of sub-legislative acts and rules on technical norms and other technical regulations; 8) promotion of investments in mineral raw materials of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing concrete. Finally, point 9) is something concrete. So, the only concrete thing in this proposal, i.e. in this description of the Agency's work – is the issue of licences in accordance with this law. So, to issue licences, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to allocate substantial resources for the work of this agency. On the other hand, this bill does not further mention this agency in terms of its organisation, structure, who will manage this agency, whether it is the Management Board, the Council, the Supervisory Board, etc. I want to say how many differences there are with the legislator: in one proposal that we had on the agenda today is defined by a law governing the work of the agency, and by the director and the board of directors, even the amount of compensation that members of the board receive for their work in the agency; there is no mention of it here and no mention of who will be arranged and within what time period of this question. There was a vague statement of the minister. He said that, in addition to these jobs, the agency is controlling compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I've never seen a bill check here, so I don't know if I have the right text of the bill, what the minister explained. The other thing that I think is crucial is these famous fees that we're talking about. It is nothing new and crucial in the essential sense, because the existing law also provided compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. The existing law prescribed a fee ratio for the Republic and local self-government. He was more unfavourable than the one proposed here by local self-government. This is something that is more quality than the existing law, but the question remains why the existing law has not been applied. Who guarantees you that this law will establish order in the area of payment of these fees? We had a law that gave us the opportunity to introduce compensation and to pay those fees. Why hasn't it come to life since 1995, at least I don't know, or it's come to life very symbolically? It didn't come back to life at all. That's the question: why isn't the existing law respected? He left the possibility, specified relations and compensations that go to local self-government and the Republic, but no one applied it. Who now guarantees that the same government that did not comply with the previous law will respect the provisions of this law that it proposes today? I find these amounts of fees unclear in percentage of total income, and 1%, and 3%, etc. I don't think that's the happiest solution, that this isn't the smartest one defined. It was meant to be defined in another way, especially this next position 3, which Mr. Jovanovic also read. And again, it seems to me that it's very important for this to be emphasized here. The total revenue, on the basis of which the amount of compensation is calculated, shall be the amount that the undertaking generates from the used or sold mineral raw materials determined on the basis of the principle of cause of income and expenditure, in accordance with the accepted international standards and the real market value of mineral products used by the undertaking. I think it's a rather confusing, vague, incomprehensible definition and that in a more precise, more specific and clear way, the amounts of compensation should be prescribed. Who, and by what methodology, will determine what is this total income that the company generates by exploiting certain mineral raw materials? I said already, this ratio of the amount of compensation prescribed by this proposal, 60% for the Republic, 40% for local self-government, for municipalities, is better than the one that was in the existing law, but of course it's not the happiest solution, because it would still take more resources to stay local, because they are in some way the most threatened by the existence of some raw materials in their territory. I understood this point 2 in Article 16a that when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials of the AP Vojvodina, then it's a different relationship. In fact, that's where the Republic was damaged in relation to... We understand it's about Vojvodina and that's not what we're discussing here. This is where the Republic is damaged. Here are funds that are less income than in central Serbia. He'll get the same amount, but the Republic will get less. Why do you do that? If we have a de facto situation that we have an autonomous province under Serbia's control, this is a concession to Vojvodina. What is this concession for? What powers are passed on to the Vojvodina by this law? Only supervision of law enforcement in Article 12 is transferred to Vojvodina in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and on that basis it receives more than the Republic of Serbia from the fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials on the territory of Vojvodina. I think this is the advocacy of Canka and the Democratic Party in Vojvodina, to be precise, the autonomists of Vojvodina, and nothing else is at stake. The next thing, Article 17a of the Bill of Law says – a company which has been granted an approval for exploitation and the Ministry closes the contract to determine the rights and obligations related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, in particular: the level of compensation, deadlines, the manner and conditions of payment of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, rights and obligations to take measures to ensure general security, environmental protection, etc. I don't understand why the conditions aren't specified and why the Ministry is allowed to make a deal with whoever's doing the exploitation, with the company that got the approval, because I think it opens up room for doubt. I doubt that companies will be in a different position, depending on political membership, commitment, etc. The law should have defined all these conditions so that they could all be in the same position, and not now according to some personal affinities, sympathys. Someone's gonna get better, and some more unfavourable terms at the Ministry. This isn't good. The last thing that belongs to those key ones is Article 46. The proposal, which reads: "The law on paying and directing funds for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and the production of oil and gas ceases to apply at the end of a year from the date of entry into force of this law. "It's that famous law of rent, as we say in the field. It was a law that was important for several municipalities in Serbia. So he didn't refer to all the municipalities. He was referring to municipalities where electricity, oil and gas were produced. I don't think this is good, and I'll tell you why. If this law, which was passed in 1990, and which, to be precise, began to apply only at the end of the last decade, many municipalities would remain deprived of significant funds. That's not good. In particular, I will give an example of Bajina Basta, a municipality that has two hydropowers in its territory: a Peruvian and reversible; in this financial year, there is revenue on this basis, under this law, from just over 30 million dinars. It's 10% of the Bayin Garden municipality's budget, and that's a significant asset. These funds are not just fixed and established and this law has not been passed without any justification. He's got his own excuse. In the Bayina Municipality, the climate was changed due to the existence of two large accumulations, two large lakes. This has also led to a change in the health newsletter of the population. It is similar in Obrenovac and other municipalities where there is electricity production, either from hydropotentials, or from coal, where there is gas and oil production. The reason for this is that it is done because the law on mining has regulated the issue of paying compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, as a mere treasure of general interest. He can't replace this fee for the use of mineral raw materials. Why? Because water isn't mineral raw materials. Bajina Basta does not have a mine and will not receive a fee for the use of mineral raw materials, and will lose 30 million dinars from the rent. On the other hand, there is a problem in Obrenovac and Lazarovac. If I understand correctly, and perhaps I haven't, so correct me, the Lazarus will be compensated on the basis of the nettles on his territory. There is a thermal power plant in Obrenovac that uses this coal, and smoke and dust, or ash swallows the citizens of Obrenovac, and they have nothing from this fee. Is that okay? Please, I don't think this is a good thing, that this someone has broken over their knees, without seeing the real consequences that are going to arise, and that this should be prevented. I don't know, I'm just left with a question – whether this is someone from negligence, negligence or incomplete consideration that has done the consequences, or whether this is a request from the European Union, that these companies that are producers of electricity are maximum disbursement of all obligations in front of future privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24969	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and the People's Messengers Veroljub Arsic, and Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has remembered that something has changed in mining, of course, to the damage of the miners themselves. When I say miners, I mean first and foremost all the employees of the mining industry. It now seems most important for the state to rename "ordinary treasure" to "mineral raw materials" or to establish another one in a series of agencies that will, of course, draw funds from the budget, or from citizens of Serbia. Speaking of the agency, whose establishment is scheduled for Article 12, it is asked with the right question why two mining institutes, for which it coals the project, for which two mining colleges, in Belgrade and Bor, and for which the Ministry's mining body, if now the Government, or the Ministry, forms this agency. Since the planned operations of the mining agency were earlier in the work cycle of the few institutions mentioned, we are rightly wondering what is the purpose of making the government another agency. The miners, of course, needed DOS in 2000 to meet political goals, we all remember that, and then everyone forgot them. All we can think of is Kolubara, so caring Covic, one of the then DOS leaders, who has changed several parties and mentors since then. The miners soon realized where this European doss leads them. Today, in mining companies, we only have two things that are current: when you're fired, this year or next, and what is your severance. What's left outside the mine shaft is being stretched out through dubious tenders, and that's in vain. Let us not forget that it is mining resorts, machinery, business space and residential facilities. It's just enough to go to some mining settlement and you'll know how the miners live. Go to the Shadow Mine, Resavica, Baljevac on Ibra, and you will know the result of government policy reflected in this population group. This government and this ministry have just been difficult to challenge miners a month ago in a protest outside the Serbian government building. Several hundred mine miners with underground exploitation, with white helmets, with a torn-up worker, of coal black suits, had to quit work to come here to Belgrade to seek justice. The miners are now working under difficult working conditions; there is no modernisation of resources for work and safety systems in caves, in which nothing has been invested in the past years, because it's been working there like 50 years. You, Mr. Minister, and your colleague Mr. Lalovic did not pay contributions to PIO miners for the period 2004 and 2005, so during the ministry. Because of that failure, if I may say so, many miners couldn't retire. Am I right, Mr. Minister? That's why they came here, angry at both the government and you, Minister, to return to them what you denied them and what belongs to them under the law... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: A colleague, please interrupt for a moment, I have one very important information; can you do it according to the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24971	Are you done? The letter gives you a sign, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24972	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24973	You'll continue later. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24974	I apologize, Mr Markovic, my colleague Ilic, an SRS MP, probably understands that I have, because I have never done this before, to announce something very important to the Serbian public, the minister who is here, a few MPs from the ruling structure and, of course, to all those who are following the assembly's transmission. The arrests of members of General Ratko Mladic's family began this afternoon. Miroslav Jegric and Vuko Jegric, the brother-in-law of Ratko Mladic, have been arrested, who for years have had absolutely no contact with a Serbian hero, a celebrated Serbian general, whose family you're closer to today. His cousins under the nicknames Kiko and a certain Branko have also been arrested, their apartments are being searched, people are being raided today by police, and they are probably doing so in a wider circle of his family at the moment. On his son, who has a small workshop or garage, financial police today began to perform an incredible financial press release at the top of Serbia's government. You should be ashamed that at the moment when all this is happening and when innocent people get hurt, when you're trying to court villains like Carla del Ponte and all those who are your mentors, you're discussing a law that has absolutely nothing to do with the fate and better future of the Serbian people. On the other hand, yesterday you spoke praises about those you wish to pardon by law on amnesty, who have avoided defending the Serbian country and serving a military deadline. That should serve you honor. But be assured, because of this information and because of what you're doing to the Ratko Mladic family, his close and distant relatives, the people of Serbia will, no one has to tell you anymore, to get up on their feet. Now I must say clearly and loudly that the government of Vojislav Kostunica must leave as soon as possible, because this kind of confusion and shame and what you are doing, with the humiliation of Serbia, Serbian heroes and the Serbian people, can no longer be put up with. Excuse me, colleague Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24975	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I didn't realize by which member of the Rules of Procedure, but anyway. In any case, I sincerely hope that from what's been said about the pay phone, not all the data is correct, because that would mean, if I understood you correctly, the way you presented the data, that we would all have cause for concern. I sincerely hope not, but very soon we'll all know the exact information. You know very well that I can't do anything else, except on the basis of information, not news, tip-offs, or a pay phone statement, anything to do, so among other things... Please, don't, you've already interrupted the MP twice, this is really an exception I've never done, so please let the MP finish, and you'll be back later. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24976	Information was important and should have been heard by Serbian citizens. In Article 13, you are still engaged in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, as you say, on land in property, both for enterprises and for natural persons. The problems that arise usually arise from the degradation of the environment, the absence of recycling, because after exploitation, huge gaps that stare and usually turn into public dumps remain. The quantities listed here are usually exceeded and no one is seriously controlling it. Is there any example that any of these private individuals involved in this activity have been punished for a more serious economic offense or for violating the Law on the Protection of the Environment? Serbia is famous for the findings of many rare elements and mineral raw materials and is precisely the reason for the great interest of foreign companies in the geological research and exploitation of our natural wealth. All we can think of is an affair about the location of nickel ore and pine; if there were no fierce resistance to the public because of the government's ocular actions and, I think, the English companies were to open mines in the heart of Serbia, we would have the consequences of destroying the natural ambience of ten kilometers in a circle. That is why these amendments and additions to the Mining Act also seek to pave the way for foreign investors to exploit our natural wealth by simplifying certain legal provisions. What I would like to mention about this law concerns the concessions that certain companies received for a certain period of time. I mean, first of all, cementists who use laporant ore, then the deer do, and some others that they've won over the past few years for the owner of foreign companies. Serbian citizens rightly wonder how many years concessions have been received for the use of Serbia's economic wealth, which monitors the amount of ore dug out and whether it adequately corresponds to the quantity of the total product. By law, out of the total funds achieved from the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials to local self-government is 40%. The question is whether the municipalities they have on their territory are receiving this intended fee. This is literally a prescribed legal solution from the Environmental Protection Act. Article 27, which refers to simplified mining projects, points 5) says – for the production of individual oil, gas and groundwater wells, as well as for groundwater facilities for exploitation, preparation and transport of oil, gas and groundwater. Is that you, Mr. Minister, getting ready for the water trade, since it's well known what demand for drinking water will be in the world in ten years? This article suggests that water as a side by-product will still be a cost-effective investment, although in some ways you interfere with other bars, which the gold mine would gladly take advantage of. And in the end, one interesting thing, it has nothing to do with your ministry, but it mentions mining equipment. This is the interestingness recently passed on to me by former employees of the famous Staff Factory in Paracina, which has been in bankruptcy for almost ten years, while a small part of the decision of the Trade Court has been sold to a foreign buyer. So, the 2004 final list mentions a dedicated loan, so I'm talking about a 470 million stand, 472.942 dinar, for the purposes of coal, metal and non-metal mines, and the next loan for construction facilities of coal and non-metal mines. It's just amazing, it looks like it's been a while since they buy mining equipment, I guess they're digging wool. I would have one parliamentary question as part of this topic, to note: is there a concession agreement between the Serbian government and Holcim Serbia by September 2005 (that means the "New Popovac" cement factory in Popovac), since this company has exploited the laporac ore for its production needs, and how many years has the concession contract been concluded if there is one? So, how much in 2005 did Holcim Serbia, on behalf of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, pay the Republic of Serbia, or the Municipality of Paracin, and according to the Law on the Protection of the Environment at the end of 2004, versus 60:40% as foreseen by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24977	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24978	Mr. Markovic, I appeal to article 100 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure you wrote. It is offensive for this National Assembly that we are discussing a law here and that several hours ago, and at this point, the family of General Ratko Mladic in Serbia is being arrested. Ms. Jovanovic asked you a moment ago if that information was correct. Since you are unable to verify this immediately, I would suggest you interrupt this session, because this seems really demeaning, and for this humble number of MPs here and for those citizens who may be watching this television broadcast. Because we couldn't wash it off our names to sit here and argue and change that old Serbian saying - wound the son and send it to the army, to - wound the son and send it to the mine. Please stop this debate, you've already scheduled a follow-up tomorrow at 10.00 and you'll check to see if this is true, because what we're doing, according to this information, is done in a brutal way. Please, today is April, not June 28th, 2001. I guess you're different from the ones you criticized during this election campaign. Either interrupt the session or provide some information, but don't disrespect us that we're here now acting like everything's in the best order of our country, and everything's falling apart. Yesterday you said clearly, the traitors are rehabilitated, what is worst in our society is rehabilitated, everything is amnesty, our army is shut down, the colonels and the colonels are retired by order of the Atlantic Alliance in Yugoslavia, which is leading the human policy in our army. We don't have, people, then the state. If you continue after this announcement with the session, it is an insult to the MPs of the SRS and we will leave this work because we cannot work on such conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24979	Thank you for your clear attitude, Mr. Krasic. It is by article 100 that I work and we all do, that respect for the dignity of the National Assembly means that we take care of facts among other things. You know very well, as I do, that there have often been news on every TV daily; day-to-day newspapers, and the Assembly is writing some news, but dignity implies that someone who runs the Assembly and presides it does so on the basis of information, and in no way expect that something that has not been verified affects his work. And your personal answer is, you know very well, during the bombing, I was doing my job while the bombs were dropping, because responsible people are doing their job. If they think they can't, they can't, of course. You know, as you yourself have announced, the People's Messengers decide for themselves. I have no right to decide on the basis of information I don't have. As soon as I have the correct information, if there is, for the news that you have said, then I will, of course, pass it on to the MPs, and I will do so. But understand me, I can't based on what the speakers say about the pay phone, without doubting where their information came from. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, national envoy Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24980	Mr Markovic, it never occurred to any of the Serbian radicals to play with such things and, unfortunately, with the fact that Ratko Mladic's brother-in-laws, I will repeat, Miroslav Jegric and Vuko Jegric, and his further members of the family today have been brought in and arrested in the most brutal way, the arrest is being carried out further. And that he put pressure on his son all day to betray and subdue his own father. That's your hypocrisy in a situation like this beyond the limit. You're saying if you had information that what I'm telling the Serbian public is true, you'd do something. Members of the Ratko Mladic family are arresting your authority, Mr. Markovic. You, Kostunica, Boris Tadic and all those who are ready to serve The Hague tribunal are a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian people. I call on Serbian Radical Party MPs to leave for today's assembly session. We have no intention of discussing this bill in a situation where you are hunting Serbian heroes and Serb heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-05-0.u24981	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I suppose you have confidence in the news that you got, that you didn't want to insult anyone with false qualifications, but that's simply a way of expressing it. Since apparently no one is present in the O.R. anymore, I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. The sequel is tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. on the principle debate of united agendas. Thank you very much, and I ask you all to do your job responsibly.
