ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26472	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their voting cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that we can agree on a working day. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Vukosav Tomašević. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee was moved to Tuesday, May 16, at 10:15 p.m., in a small hall. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move on to a joint principle search of the 12-15th agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF PRIVATION AND BASE OF THE ACTIONARY SOCIETIONS "NIS - CAPITAL", "EPS - CAPITAL" AND "PTT - CAPITAL" A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points 12, 13, 14 and 15 and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9 plus 9 – 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia – 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, three independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In case there are no presidents or vice-presidents of the parliamentary groups there, G17 plus authorised Nikola Novakovic as an authorised representative. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, the Proposal for a Law establishing the Action Society "NIS - CAPITAL", the Proposal for a Law establishing the Action Society "EPS - CAPITAL" and the Proposal for a Law establishing the Action Society "PTT - CAPITAL". Do the representatives of the promoters Branko Pavlovic, Veljko Milosevic, Miroslav Veličković, Zoran Mrvaljevic, Relja Popović and Dusan Zelec want a word? Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26473	A little explanation, since I don't have a Rules of Procedure at hand. I see here certain gentlemen who are not MPs. According to parliamentary practice everywhere in the world, only MPs, ministers and presidents of the Republic can enter this room, if we invite him or if he wants to come. The committees can be attended by citizens, but I don't think they can come into this room and talk to us MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26474	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic, you have quite rightly concluded, starting with the belief that the representatives of the motion act are someone who is a representative of the government. According to our new Rules of Procedure, in the event that the President of the Assembly has proof that the State Secretary for the Law of the Government, and he can be, and of course, MPs, either individually or as representatives of a parliamentary group, either as representatives of a particular group that is more than 20. But since the law is always above the Rules of Procedure, and there is a Law on People's Initiative and a referendum, it obliges that one point be placed on the agenda when certain conditions are met, and they are, not to quote, the number of signatures collected. In contrast, these points were collected after verification, since there are various folk initiatives that satisfied only one part, so after the verification, signatures were collected, in an adequate way the signatures were presented and in an adequate manner a confirmation of the validity of these signatures was obtained. In contrast, it was necessary to get the government's opinion. The government's opinion came in December 2005 and it was negative at all points, and they are accordingly, and due to the inability to consider in a regular session the points put by the president of the Assembly on the agenda, withdrawn by the proposings, because it was necessary, just to avoid confusion, to get at least one more opinion on the legal option from the competent body. It was won a month ago, and immediately the president put it at the first next session in a regular session, when only the president of the assembly decided on a proposal to put something on the agenda, and MPs voted whether it would be. So that's on the agenda. Therefore, under the Law on the People's Initiative and the referendum, it was possible to have a legal act here, and then enters into the work of a member of the Rules of Procedure who says - a representative of the proposings. Since they are valid in the course of the presentation of this proposal, they are not all able to address each other, but since they are listed here, they are present at the invitation of the President of the Assembly, through a professional service. Otherwise, not before, and after that, it's not possible. As you know, even the highest state officials representing the unity of the state, such as the President of the Republic, can come on call, and thus always happens, therefore, at the invitation of the President of the Assembly. In this case, according to the Rules of Procedure and by law, as signatories of the initiative and valid proposings at the invitation are present gentlemen whose names I have read. I suppose you realize how specific this is, so I'd like to ask you for a specificity. Since you are not familiar to the public and to the MPs, but I suppose to the unions or those whose signatures you represent, I pray for something that is not common, therefore, when addressing representation. So there is no need to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a representative of Proposer Dušan Zelek.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, citizens of Serbia, it is my great honor today to address you here. My name is Dušan Zelek, president of the unique union organization NIS-NAFTAGAS. It is part of the oil industry of Serbia, which is carried out with basic activity, which is research and production of oil, gas and geothermal energy. We were initiators to make these laws because at the moment when the decision was made to take place in the privatisation of large public enterprises, we estimated that these were the last major values in this country to be sold, and therefore we launched action, trade unions, for the making of laws that would benefit and employees in the oil industry of Serbia, pensioners, and we also asked the people who did these laws to cover those laws with the same rights and all other citizens of Serbia who so far have not taken full advantage of their right to sign in, or have not used it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26476	I'm sorry, please, I have to interrupt, I'm sorry, don't get confused. It is necessary and I am now almost using the fact that only the President of the Assembly can interrupt the speaker, but as a rule, because order is being violated, I beg your pardon. Due to the establishment of order, since many MPs, because today is not normally a working day, but only by decision is a working day, do not know when and how to continue the search at the next point, as it is an important law, and it has arrived by emergency procedure and must be prepared for the amendment, a notification is necessary. According to Article 85(4), today it will be until the end of the debate, not only when this, but also the next point, of the law on the return of church property. In case the debate on these points ends in the morning, in which case, at 1400 hours, there will be a sequel, so before 1400 hours will certainly not start a sequel to the next point. Excuse me, please, for interrupting and continuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26477	Thank you, Mr. President. You didn't deconcentrate me. So, we have demanded that laws be drawn up that will be treated equally and that will benefit all citizens who have not entered fully or have not entered at all the right to grant free shares. We estimate that the existing law is not good for citizens, is not good for NIS employees, due to a number of arguments. The most important thing is that the grant of these free actions will be in an indefinite period after 2010. After 2010, a large number of people who have achieved the greatest rights under this law, because they have the highest number of years of work experience, would achieve the highest number of rights to grant free shares. Unfortunately, because of years of internships, he probably wouldn't be alive. That is why we have requested that the distribution of such actions be carried out immediately and certainly prior to privatisation. The proposals of these laws, as well as the law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, which would allow these three large public enterprises to exercise the right and other citizens, have been created, and we as organizers, trade unions from these three large public enterprises, have gone into action to achieve that legal basis so that these laws come to you in the Assembly for consideration, that you have the opportunity, considering these laws, to point out their lack of capacity, to propose, to talk to you. That's all we've asked, to consider these laws justified and to allow the Government and you MPs in the National Assembly who are above the Government to indicate how to fix these laws or to propose if you have something better than these laws, which will benefit you. We have estimated that, apart from employees in public enterprises, about 3.5 million residents and citizens of the Republic can benefit from the right to grant free shares. Very quickly, when the National Assembly expert service allowed us to go into the procedure of signing the legislators of these laws, within three or four days, 542,592 citizens signed this law. A couple hundred thousand signatures arrived late. We had a limited deadline. From that moment on, these unions were just the organizers of the action. This has been given, by the number of promoters, the treatment of the people's initiative. This is why this is a historic moment in the National Assembly, for the first time, the proposals are being considered, and these are the bill's proposals, based on the people's initiative. You have so far considered the laws proposed by the government or individual parties. The proposals are behind Serbia's citizens for the first time. We've proposed laws that are really good. These laws have passed a review on the Legislative Committee. The laws have been carried out under all legal and economic procedures, based on international conventions and international recommendations on the management of financial flows. The proposed laws that are before you are extremely good for a good and responsible government. They are good because their consistent application would guarantee better quality management of state assets. These laws are also good because they meet last year's and earlier commitments to reorganise and privatise large public enterprises. They are good for Serbian citizens for three of the most important reasons. With their adoption and consistent application, a large number of citizens and their families would receive very quickly decent income from the privatisation of these companies. Another important argument is that all Serbian citizens would get far more quality and reliable services from the public sector. The third extremely important reason is that the adoption and consistent application of these laws would significantly strengthen the pension fund. We are all aware of the situation of the population we call pensioners and the current law and what is ahead of it in the transition process. They'll be the biggest losers. These laws would greatly strengthen the pension fund and provide first pensioners, and then some of us who are at the end of the working century, and you, more decent and dignified extension of life after the end of the working century. Those laws are good. You have before you a response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to those laws signed by Mr. Labus. I'm not going to look back on the guy's arguments, it's inconclusive to apply these laws because of technical inability. I will consider two important arguments before you. The first important argument is that the application of these laws would form companies, as we called it, of a holding type capital society, where the state would get a percentage of assets and management of these enterprises, and immediately after the adoption of these laws, it would have to allocate 30% of the value in shares and assign to employees in the privatisation register and in the pension fund. It is estimated that the Republic of Serbia has no interest and that it could not find common interest with the entities with which management rights should be shared after the division of these actions. I felt cold and insensitive when I read it that someone called me a subject, and the other three and a half or four million citizens who would gain the right to these actions. It is impossible and unacceptable that the Republic of Serbia cannot find the same interest with four million citizens, and that is adults, full-aged citizens, representing nearly two-thirds of the electoral body. The second argument and conclusion of the government's remarks is that the formation of these companies has an exclusive tendency to be companies that would make profit, without guaranteeing that they will meet their obligations for which they are registered. I work in the oil industry of Serbia and ask everything, so of course we asked to form companies with the sole goal of making profits, of course that's the first goal, and now the second goal. I can tell you, until now, the government has not managed public enterprises well, and I know about NIS because I've worked in it for 30 years, of course our goal is to make that company profit. When it makes a profit, what we oilers could do otherwise, because there's an argument there, there's no certainty that it's going to meet the obligations it's registered for. In NIS over 80% are employees of people who can only work at NIS, nowhere else, and what we oilers can do if we make profits and what else to invest in, except what we've been doing so far, and that's oil and gas production. They wouldn't plant pickles and peppers. It's the only thing we know we're doing with that profit. So, so much for answers. We are now being watched by a large part of Serbia's citizens. It is a serious task for you to discuss the arguments, to consider these laws. Of course it wouldn't be acceptable. I won't, and it can't. It's street arguments. This hall and the National Assembly must discuss more serious arguments. Finally, in this situation of Serbian citizens, the allocation of these free actions would be one of the serious ways to allow for the existence of a large number of Serbian citizens. In this principle debate, and we will certainly discuss details, I use the opportunity, for the first time in this House, to address you now and as a citizen, therefore, not as the promoter and organizer of these laws, ladies and gentlemen, to ask you, and you are aware and part of you is in this situation, do you know what is the most popular sport among young people: learning foreign languages. Every penny is invested in learning foreign languages to get out of this country as soon as possible. I'm also the father of an adult child. I don't have any arguments to keep her in this country, I don't have any serious arguments. I haven't made any big financial supplies in so many years, so I was raised. I didn't use someone else's methods. I was so raised. I don't have the arguments. This way, by adopting these laws, and you're going to make at least one argument for us to tell these children, there is, something's going on in Serbia, stay here, don't turn this country into a country of old fathers and mothers. In front of you a large number of people, I end up with these gentlemen, there is no chance in life of making a strategic decision and an important one. Of that small number of people, some of them miss and then their whole lives wonder what it would have been like to have done that. I appeal to you, on behalf of those 540,000 signatories and three-and-a-half million who expect the right to receive actions that some will be a clue that have existed and worked in this country, I urge you as MPs to please the will of the people, to take advantage of the opportunity that has now been given to you, and by that folk colonel or deceased, to choose an opportunity to make a decision that you will not be ashamed of and that will enter into the history of the parliamentary here. Forget about the daily-political interest, this is the interest of the people, the great part of the people, I said two-thirds of the electorate's body is at stake. Make a decision, consider and accept these laws. By the time you're in a position to vote, I appeal to you, think about it, each of you has children and many of them are preparing to leave this country. By adopting these laws, you will give us at least one, both to us and to you and to other citizens, an argument to try and keep them here. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26478	Do any of the promoters want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, citizens of Serbia, my name is Miroslav Velickovic, President of the Union of Elektroprivreda Srbija, as one of the initiators for proposing these laws, which, of course, later became a folk initiative. My colleague talked a lot about it. Gentlemen, I will not speak to you of justice, nor of honesty, nor of your debt to the people you represent. I won't question any of that. I want to point out to you the chance you have and which is now in front of you, the chance that once or for most twice in the course of life comes to a man. It's your chance right now. You have the opportunity to, by adopting the law establishing the "EPS-Capital" AD and the other three proposed laws that are now under discussion, correct the injustice that is reflected in the fact that some Serbian citizens have received free action in the privatisation process, and some unfortunately have not. We're all talking about transition. Our transitions are full of mouths when we speak in the successes of its realization. Well, we've moved this far in legislation, we've been able to get this close to Europe. I can't help but notice that we talk about the victims of that transition incomparably rarer or perhaps not at all, that we talk much less about those who have all these changes, I repeat, they are necessary, they're well attached. Many have lost their jobs or can't pay for schooling to their children, I can't, God forbid, even pay for their treatment. Not to mention, these are the very victims of the transition. I'm going to do it again for the third time, so there's no delusion, it's perfectly clear to me, and I know that change is necessary and that they can't fully respond to everyone. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it doesn't matter when a man loses his job, just like my predecessor talked about it, just because he worked in some socialist calligugant who used to buy social peace, so here's the subject of privatisation. What I'm trying to tell you is that it hurts a lot, that it hurts a lot when you're unjustly victimized by a transition. Such a transition injustice is the fact that the government is denying free action to a vast number of Serbian citizens. It deprives them of their right to the justice of God, which is, we'll agree, a minor problem for them. It deprives them of this right, despite the Constitution, which you, as MPs of the Serbian Parliament, would certainly have to bear in mind. I am fully aware of what it means when I say that the government is denying the right to free action for a part of the citizens, because the solutions it offers, which, unfortunately, you ladies and gentlemen Members through the laws, is not a solution that satisfies more than half of Serbia's citizens. The government offers actions that neither now nor in four years, when they will be, if they will be brought to the market at all, will be worth nothing. The government offers public-owned companies shares of these companies after they are sold. When they will have value, just -- on paper, which means everyone who went to the market knows enough about it. For those who work in the public sector, the government is offering, in fact, promises actions from the privatisation register, which, we all know, is empty. When it's full, you don't know. So, the government doesn't offer anything and it says that it has to be so, that it's a transition, and I'm telling you that it doesn't have to be, that it's an injustice that you ladies and gentlemen of the peoples can correct. The draft law establishing the "EPS-Capital" AD, in a package with other proposed laws on the agenda today and on which you will vote, not today, but after discussions in particular, this package of laws offers a solution that enables the division of actions that are truly worth, depending on how many employees he has spent in enterprises, 500, 1000, 3000, perhaps 5,000 euros. They are worth it to teachers and teachers, doctors and nurses, civil servants, judges, military members, police officers, cultural employees, private workers, all who are employed in enterprises in restructuring and bankruptcy, pensioners who have acquired internships in these areas and unemployed in all categories. It's a lot of money for them. Whether that money will be won or not, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament depends on you, depending on whether you vote for these laws or against them. That's exactly your chance I was talking about at the beginning. I don't envy you at all. You play in front of an audience that counts over four million. So many citizens of Serbia await the outcome of your vote, as the outcome depends on the quality of their existence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are rightly proud of the number of laws that you have adopted and which we need on our way to orderly society. I am convinced that there has been no law that has affected the lives of Serbian citizens more directly and faster than those of which you will now plead. Imagine four million people who, on a direct transmission, today or some other day when you say this, will find out what you've just decided. They'll know the same day if they can have that money I was talking about in a few months. That's more than half of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. That's exactly your chance. You've been wronged to make a fair decision or to be remembered for the violence of citizens' rights. Then you are free of all the laws that will bring us into the EU there in 2014. Until then, who lives, who dies. Now you're choosing how you're going to get into history. Let me tell you right now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no argument that you will be able to defend yourself before the citizens if you do not vote for these laws. See what's the key reason for the government to be against these laws. I quote the last paragraph on page two of the material you've received. It says: "Departing from the proposed concept under which the EPS-Capital Action Society would have the status of 'clean' holding company, the question of the interest of the Republic of Serbia, which in the existing model has fully manageable and control rights (as well as the right of supervision to set up a new business entity), is raised in fact immediately giving up its 100% ownership in exchange for a number of actions of arbitrary value and division of management rights with entities with which, by nature of things, cannot guarantee the identity of interest, business and development policy objectives and capital management of that potential joint action society". Gentlemen, these entities with which the government does not have the same interests are actually citizens of Serbia. Well, who can she use? Okay, it's the government, it's the ministers. Rarely when an ordinary man meets one of them, and even when they meet, they're very far away, and they can't be heard. With you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, second case. You and those who have chosen you as messengers meet daily. What will you tell them if you don't vote these laws, if you leave them without theirs, I repeat theirs and theirs again, because they have the right to money. You don't have the same interests you and your citizens might have by chance? Be assured that as soon as tomorrow or the day after you say so, the citizens will meet you. Whether to congratulate you or to ask you this and other questions, of course it depends only on you, because I repeat again, the chance is yours, and you should be able to use it and play the game before four million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26480	Do any of the promoters want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26481	Zoran Mrvaljevic from the PTT and Telekom systems. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, Mr. President, very briefly, not to take up your time, but what I'm about to say in summary, I think he's talking about everything. I represent a folk initiative signed by more than half a million workers, more specifically, not to speak the figure, 542.592 professors, doctors, pensioners and others, who make up about two million Serbian citizens with their families. I remind you that this number is over 30 times greater than the law of the prescribed minimum. I am honored to present on their behalf a proposal for a fair law, which, by sharing free actions with citizens, when you MPs and MPs adopt it, will bring to an equal position a large number of Serbian citizens, who have so far been denied from the privatisation income of making better income for their home budget. So far, the minority has enjoyed privatisation revenues, which individually amounted to tens and hundreds of thousands of euros. This fair law would provide more quality and reliable services from the public sector, such as postal, telephone services, better heating, electricity supply, oil and others. This fair and economically justified law will strengthen the pension fund and ensure the safety of current and future pensioners. So far, this has not been done with any package of laws or economic measures. Based on this budget, there would be more money left for education and health care, which would affect better education and the health care of our Serbian citizens. This draft law respects the fundamental human rights of the Constitution and international conventions guaranteed. The needs of Serbian citizens with EU laws and monetary policy have been harmonised, in line with priorities in the fight against poverty. Only those who have not read or understood this bill, which has signed over half a million, affecting several million Serbian citizens, will be against it. The allegations presented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its explanation do not match the facts, measures and arguments made by this solution and a modern law. The government, without firm and proper arguments, is against this initiative of citizens and the bill of law that is before you. This law model, which respects strict criteria in each segment, which are justified and economically realistic, directly affects employees and pensioners, as well as part of Serbian citizens who are on the employment bureau and make them mostly young people or those who have lost their jobs as a surplus workforce. By adopting this model of the law, you will show your commitment to respect the will of the voters who voted for you and who pay for the work of each minister and MP in their pocket. People's MPs and MPs, I urge you to support and vote in favour of the people's initiative and, by adopting this fair law, show the citizens of Serbia that you really listen to their will and work in the general interest. Vote for a better, fairer and more economically stable life for workers, professors, actors, doctors, officials, soldiers, pensioners, those who are your neighbors, sellers, judges, teachers, nurses, postmen. Vote for this bill, vote for the share of shares to the citizens. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26482	Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the committees of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word submitted in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted only one group MP, which is the SPS and independent MP Branislav Stevanovic, who also has the first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26483	Ladies and gentlemen, the absence of any of the ministers from power, resolute ministers who should be Mr. Bubalo, means ignoring more than half a million signatories of these proposals and perhaps three times or five times as many citizens of Serbia. The Privatisation Act, which is together with these three laws on the establishment of stock companies, as far as we know for the third time in a year, comes on the agenda for changes and additions. This confirms the fact that this law is certainly not good, it is not good. The privatisation itself, which could be talked about a lot today, and time does not allow, is a lot of talk, and for a long time it will be said, a simple definition would be that it is illegal, looting, godfatherly and burazeric. Why do I say that? I'll explain in a very short time. Before the privatisation process itself, it was necessary to pass dozens of required laws that are related to the privatisation process itself. First of all, the Act establishing stock companies, then these laws that we now have on the takeover of stock companies and so on. So, dozens of laws that are related to privatisation, so I don't count them individually now. To arrange this matter, it is necessary to do so before that. This has been done knowingly in order to do privatisation in this way, and we already have the case of many who bought enterprises in Serbia, so they are in the background of certain parties that were once in power, both present and perhaps some future authorities. The adoption of the law on the establishment of stock companies, gentlemen, is one necessity. No one from the government has shown up today to explain to all the signatories, and to their families and others who have the right to carry out these actions, has found it appropriate to respect these people to explain, to make arguments to which this initiative can refute. So the arguments just don't exist. If we look both on the legal side and on any other side, there are no arguments here to bring this proposal down. Therefore, especially when it comes to the establishment of an EPS stock company, I am one of the EPS employees, and I cannot reconcile with the fact that if someone in the Nis tobacco industry, which I have nothing against, people have exercised their rights, "Knjiz Milos", and I can almost see in Senti, in a small tobacco factory, is neither small nor small, exercising their rights, and why not all of us in Serbia have the same rights. Also one of the great injustices occurred, even in the earlier period of the previous government, and these present ones continued that continuity, it's one scam over enrollment in the Central Register. In fact, somewhere over 30% of the total stock is not included in the Central Register. This means one of the illegal actions that could speed up privatisation and, of course, that machination means the illegality of privatisation. Also those people who were damaged by earlier authorities, and this government continued this same continuity, and that is what the law said when it was 15 days to be advertised, to the daily newspaper enrolling actions. Whoever doesn't answer, who doesn't read the paper, who doesn't know, loses his right to action. It's also another one of the big scams. Why? Because it means someone who has a pretty good punishment, so he can't run out of time 15 days ago, he has to pay for it at any time, which means even more if he puts it down. About Mr. Pavlovic, I would not like to spend a lot of words, a man does his job honestly, and about the very membership of the minority shareholders' association, I also heard some pretty bad ones, especially on membership fees, which I would not buy into that story, and the time does not allow me. I would also like to say that I will surely support this initiative and that I am very disappointed that a large number of MPs are not present here in this room, does not want to cross arguments, on the other hand, to refute this proposal and simply means going to that party discipline, by obedience. And to tell you what it's all about, gentlemen, because the former government, the current and some future one should draw out the main funds and the biggest ones for maintaining power, for financing parties and further tycunisation of Serbia. Also, I'd like to say, I'm employed at the EPS, at the Colubar Terminal, and I know that the same Lazarevians have brought DOS to power a known revolution, and we know in what way and now these same colleagues and comrades are extremely disappointed by the actions of this current government. I am, gentlemen, limited by the small presence of MPs, by no discussion, and above all by ignoring a large, vast number of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26484	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26485	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the proposers, colleagues and fellow MPs, here I will say a few words on behalf of the SPS on today's agenda, and, unlike the promoters, I will take a closer look at the whole privatisation problem. In fact, the strategic interest of the SPS is that privatisation in Serbia, if possible, and we will do everything to make it so, be fair and that the wider the circle of people comes into action that will be worth it. Because, for small money, some people become owners of huge assets, and hence affecting people's lives in a different way or that people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, get actions that will not be worth it, in themselves, makes no sense. That is why we are interested in any initiative that leads in the direction or which opens the topic of how the wider circle of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will come to an action that will have its value. I can't help but mention that at the end of the 1990s, the SPS had a Privatisation Act, the essence of which was that employees in the company were owners of over 50% of the shares. In 2000, the law was assessed as bad, secondly passed, we already know what kind of law was implemented and privatisation, in our opinion very bad. With amendments and additions to that law, I must say on the SPS initiative, the government has accepted to submit an amendment that allowed employees to be owners of actions in public enterprises up to 30%. It's something that exists, which is a fact. Our interest is that the state takes care of all elements related to the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that public enterprises have the importance for the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We don't just want to talk about privatising one company or one category of employees. I can't, and whenever a story about privatisation is mentioned, not to mention what has been done in Serbia over the past few years. Two thousand of the best companies, claim the best, have been sold for two billion euros. For example, in the mid-90s, at a time when the Socialists exercised power, 49% of Telekom, one part of a public enterprise, was sold for 1,536,000,000 marks and that is then to say from a large number of people experienced as catastrophic. Now many would like it to be, but it isn't, because in the meantime some other circumstances have happened that have completely changed and had access to this issue and should know that. After all, even this initiative would not be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if it weren't for this Constitution that many dispute, which was brought back to the Socialist era. I'm saying this because I need to be very careful when talking about any topic and we don't need it here in the National Assembly, at least I think, too much politics, politicization, blackmail or some kind of pressure. It seems to me that the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are responsible enough and educated enough to understand every law, but also to take care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like, in the course of the debate, if it is, to hear from the promoter what the value of the action is, what does that mean specifically, provided that this concept is accepted and applied in practice, what it will essentially mean. Without us, you, them, these, because the state has its own interest, citizens again think that some things need to be solved one way or the other. Maybe they're right, maybe they're wrong, but what you're gonna do is life. I think the state has several tasks to do with privatising all businesses, not just public enterprises, which is, if it's enterprises where the majority owner is, to prevent their further devastation at all costs. It seems to me that the state is not active enough to react to those enterprises where it is the majority owner, and where it is systematically being ruined. I'll state one example later, unfortunately, because I don't like to give negative examples. I wish there were these other positives, but it's also about citizens and some employees. When it comes to public enterprises, I have to say that it is an SPS position, we appreciate that the state must be the majority owner of public enterprises' actions. Why? For the simple reason that, through public enterprises, the state influences, and how, on the standard of life, as much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it, the standard of life. It also directly or indirectly affects the economic flows in society, and it must be taken into account. We're not blinded by the idea of just getting into action, so tomorrow someone else will sell, so someone else will determine both Serbia and the employees. So they're not crazy in the world when they make sure that in certain public enterprises, it means not all of them, which have strategic significance and which are essential to the fate of both states and citizens of the states, are the majority owner. And that's something to take care of. I mentioned an example of these social enterprises. This debate is a cause for me to talk about it. Namely, our SPS parliamentary group has received documentation on 12 companies that have entered the process of restructuring, preparation for privatisation and some circumstances, they are linked to a social enterprise, the Centertextile, where the state owns 97% of the value. They have a certain problem, and they found it quite logical to turn to parliamentary groups, in this case to help them through the public and using this assembly pay phone, to get some money, too, that is to say, in privatisations that follow as many employees as possible to take action worth it. So I was asked on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to publicly ask a few questions, and I am doing so on this occasion. Why doesn't the state of Serbia react to the fact that 12 companies, here I have a list, that you know that she didn't say that, is not responding for over $18 million by criminally selling Iraqi claims by the Centertextile Deutsche Bank in London. This affair, in which all Serbian textile factories have been damaged, is about textiles, in the last four months it has been written in all means of public information. Why is it that some people from the Ministry of Business and Privatisation are pressured by a dozen of the largest Serbian textile factories to withdraw their lawsuit at the Trade Court in Belgrade and offer them a third of the amount that really belongs to them? The argument to protect the interests of 700 employees at the Centertextile is totally unacceptable, given that damaged factories protect the interests of over 5,000 employees. Isn't it a shame for our country that the biggest trustee of Niteks' Nis for its claims from the Croatian company "Textil" Zagreb also through Jubmes Bank of Belgrade will charge three times the amount offered by the Serbian firm "Centrotextile". The damage to Nitex is two million dollars. Why has for several years been ignored and done nothing about frequent memos from the Small Shareholders' Association of Belgrade, which are accompanied by most of the employees, talking about criminal management activities. What I'm trying to say to the public is that I'm reporting the material that I got from these esteemed colleagues. If something concrete had been done, the management of the Centre could not conclude a harmful contract with Deutsche Bank of London regarding the sale of an Iraqi debt, which directly damaged the Republic of Serbia for over $18m. Why doesn't the Ministry introduce temporary measures in the Centertextile, when it knows that since the tenth month of 2005, the Centertextile has no legal board of directors and a supervisory board with mandates expired that day. Meanwhile, a dozen illegal decisions have been made, including a decision to sell the Iraqi claim to Deutsche Bank of London. Who's going to fit what's been allowed to run the Centertextile for years doing criminal activities and, logically, isn't it enough of an affair? How a state-owned company will be privatised, of which 80 Serbian factories and factories from other republics of the former Yugoslavia are asking for about 40m dollars. Who will compensate for the damage to the Republic of Serbia when it turns out that the "Centertextile", in which the state has ownership, is over 97% without property. I cited one particular example, I had a particular cause for it, and that is the initiative of these 12 companies to our parliamentary group. Not running away from this topic, I would like to continue, who will discuss both the proposings and the MPs concerned, to hear concrete information, because I repeat once again, and with this end, the interest of our party is that the greater number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will come up with actions that will be worth it, which will not only be paper that will stand in a drawer, but actions that will be worth it. If one way of privatization increases the value of actions, allows more people to get to it, then the concept should be supported. If such a concept is not lawfully prepared or there are cavities that make it impossible to do so, then it is simply necessary to find a way to fix it. I think it is the interest of the Serbian state to make privatisation successful, to give people satisfaction through actions for what they have invested, years of life, work and effort, and I think it is one interest that no one can question. Then let's see how we can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26486	The word is Branko Pavlovic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26487	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the first two addresses of the MPs were very inspiring, so now the path of serious argument has already been set out on only one subject, whether this package of laws that we propose is better than the existing legal solution. It's our job to convince you that it's incomparably better, and then see if there are any serious objections and shortcomings. You'll see they're gone. At first, I cannot without thanking the MPs for the first time being a part of the agenda, and we hope that other people's initiatives, which have met the legal requirements, will have the same or similar fate. First, our laws resolve the issue of how the state deals with state property. Secondly, as we address the problem for four million citizens who have not achieved the right to action in all 17 years of privatisation in Serbia. I will remind you that privatisation began in 1989, and in the 17th and four million Serbian citizens did not have the right to action at all, and you will see that, in the ordinary course of things, they have no chance in the current model before 2010 or some subsequent year. Our model solves the conceptual and good governance of state property, incomparably better than it is today, and quickly resolve the right to action by all citizens. This is extremely important to understand in the beginning, not only the employees of public enterprises, but all citizens. So, which are other categories of citizens, including those who work in public enterprises at the place, they also don't have the right for now – everyone who works or works in the military, the police, everyone who works in education, at all levels of our education system, science, all those in health care, everyone in the state administration, who works in the judicial system, all those who work in other social institutions, privates, it's very important, they also didn't exercise the right to action; there are farmers and ultimately we have a category of unemployed; of course, and pensioners in all these systems, a huge part. Our system, the legal solution, contains one very important thing, which is the capitalisation of the pension fund, therefore, better governance of state property, resolving issues for four million shareholders, capitalising the pension fund and a huge path towards solving this problem, and something that has been particularly important in the last days in the public, the issue of the privatisation register technique, how these actions are shared to citizens. The fifth thing, which is very important for our debate today, is whether our concept is intruding into the international commitments of the Republic of Serbia, and we will show that in no way does it affect international commitments, and whether or not it affects the functioning of public enterprises in the sense of performing their function of general interest for the citizens of Serbia. We'll show you no. Ambassador Obradovic specifically asked to answer several more questions. It is true, above all, that amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises in late November 2005 opened up the possibility of sharing up to 30% of actions without compensation in these companies to citizens. It wasn't possible before, now it's possible. The second question is any value of action, in a market sense, what is actually going on here. One thesis is that at all costs it must prevent further awareness of public enterprises, with which we absolutely agree, and our concept is largely based on a mechanism that guarantees the halting of public enterprises, and whether the state remains a majority owner, what happens in terms of the control package of the manager in our model compared to the existing model. Let's get in line. First of all, as legislators, we tried to fit into the existing legal framework as much as possible. So the existing legal framework says 70% to the state, 30% to the citizens. We say the same thing. The existing legal framework says public enterprises must have a general function, we do not touch at all in public enterprises and in their structure. The existing legal framework says, accountingly, in the distribution of 200 euros per year of work experience, no matter where you have achieved years of work experience, we say the same. So we fit in to the most possible extent in the existing legal framework. Before I tell you what's important and conceptually different, I can't help but look at the existing legal system of what's going on with state property. In fact, the state has a whole series of functions, judicial, legislative, executive, somewhere using public authority, and somewhere the state appears as the owner. She has one private legal function, she simply owns the property. It owns huge assets according to current regulations in Serbia, and among other things it owns and the total assets used by public enterprises in Serbia, and not only those at the republican level, but also about 480 public enterprises at the local site. It's all state property. We have a problem right now. There's no list of assets. So, you never, at any point and in any way you didn't have a document that would make you a list of state property. Imagine the owner who doesn't even have a list of what he owns. Imagine someone who, for example, owns a kiosk, I don't want to insult anyone, what you think, that he doesn't have a list of property in his shop. Of course there is. So every boss knows exactly what it is he has. The Republic of Serbia does not have such a document at all. It dramatically makes it difficult to manage the property, how they make decisions that something should be bought or sold when they don't know what it has. Another, equally big problem, we don't even know if there's any income from the property, we don't know anything. When we talk about public enterprises, they give us some of their balances, but it doesn't show, there's no price they pay for using state property. She's not here at all. You say, say, that Telekom did business positively or if the NIS had done business positively, you haven't been shown, wait, how much would it belong to the state based on property ownership, so then it's your activity. What does that mean? We're going back to the kiosk, for example. If I own a kiosk, so I let someone use it, he's got to pay me a rent. He only did good business in that booth when he paid me the rent, paid the suppliers everything they needed, paid the state everything he needed, paid the employees everything they needed, and then earned some profit. We as a state, like the Republic of Serbia, so then all of us as its citizens don't have that at all. We're an economy that's 60 percent based on state property in the economy today and we don't have the price of that property. It creates a huge deviant behaviour in Serbia's economic flows, creates a possibility, and as soon as you create that possibility, that's what happens to you. That's why you have what's common ground, a decline in the value of public enterprises, because the public firm is under pressure from day-to-day policy management: to deliver the mule, even though he didn't pay you, to deliver the electricity even though he didn't pay you and he won't pay you, to the one you can't close the gas, here you have to give up the charge of your services, here you have to have a depressed price of electricity, to the side that U.S.S. Steel uses for export, etc. So you just don't have a clean bill. I don't think you should take care of the standard of citizens at all. You have to have a clearly expressed bill, how much it costs. So it's much better to have a price. It must be small in Serbia, for starters, because of the difficulties public enterprises face. The price must be low, but it can't be gone. Actually, whose jurisdiction it is. It's the secretary of finance's jurisdiction. I don't mean the present and the previous. It is his jurisdiction to take care of financial flows in Serbia to see what the property of the state is and to see what revenue is from the property. There is no income from assets measured in dozens and dozens of billions of euros. Then how do you manage it and how do you know you have something to sell? If he had income from property, then he'd say, that property brings me big profits. So then he tells you, are you willing to sell us the property that otherwise brings us big profits, or does he say, this property doesn't make you any money? It's an argument. Without it, we're definitely in the dark here, and we need to get out of that darkness. We'll go back to our concept, because he's pretty much handling it. Four million citizens of Serbia; there are no legal proposals, this existing legal system goes to the end. What is their destiny? When will the employees of education, health care, state administration, military and police, pensioners, exercise the right to free action? We say certainly not before 2010, and I must say that the government's representatives agreed on that on the Privatisation Committee. They say, that's true, nobody gets anything safe until 2010, and maybe later. Why is that? Our existing legal system says that the obligation to share actions occurs to all others two years after the completion of the privatisation in general. The deadline for ending privatisation in general does not exist. There's some kind of deadline for privatizing social property, and there's no time limit for privatising state property. I'll remind you that according to this so-called. We have been engaged in the completion of the privatisation of social property since 2001, and the state has not yet begun. When we say 2010, it's actually a much shorter deadline than it's going to be real. The state will eventually end, according to an existing legal solution, 2010, and then two or three years after that some division of assets. What's our concept? Our concept regulates both key issues immediately. How? Since the state is the owner, and public enterprises are the users alone, we set up these legal proposals to form stock companies between the state and public enterprises. New businesses. To these new companies, the state transfers ownership, and they make use of the public enterprise. So far, the state has given the property to a public company, and now the state is transferring ownership to a company, which gives it to a public company. From the public firm's point of view, he hasn't changed a thing. He was a property user and remained a property user. What's the difference? Now he's using that property based on a contract and he has to pay for using it. So, we're introducing a rent to use state property. The state property cannot be used for free, because this difference in free use of state property actually allows state property in public enterprises to be used as a party and creates the possibility to satisfy party, many narrow interests, but rather the interests of rational use of state assets. The interest we are looking for is at the level of the lowest interest in Serbia, which is the World Bank level. When the World Bank lends us loans, then it has its own methodology for countries such as Serbia, in the problems in which it is, it is below one percent. You know what it looks like in the financial sector, incomparably more. We took a little, because we are aware that public enterprises are not able today to withstand the real market price, but in NIS, in general, it is 18m euros per budget. It only slightly reduces the possibility of archiving state property in one company for 18m euros in one year and generates income that has nothing to do with the sale. If our model were applied to all public enterprises in Serbia, including local ones, where there are huge important enterprises, state revenue, without any sales, would be at 300m euros annually. You're not selling anything, just from management. We are now going back to the stock companies and this is now the key answer to what Mr. Obradovic said. And in our model in these stock companies, 70% belongs to the state, and 30% to the citizens, we don't change anything here, but we just demand that the state with 7% of its 70% to have market quotations of those actions, and I'll explain to you later the benefits of that model, perhaps in another reporting, so that this doesn't be too long, and 63% of the packages remain state-owned. This absolutely provides the state control package, 30% get citizens, but now they get in one model that is extremely marketable for them. Why? Because they get shares before they sell, because the current model says, one of the state's privatisation agencies bought 70% of the companies and has already crossed over two-thirds of the company's ownership, which means that they make any decisions they want, they don't care about the remaining 30%, they don't care about that. Then we have hundreds, hundreds and hundreds so-called. Cases indicating an infinite amount of malfeasance, in which the buyer does not show profit in the company he bought. Of course he won't show when we offered him a model in which he needs to share with 30% of some other shareholders. Of course he didn't think of it now, so he left and bought a company for the first time in his life. They're all buyers, and most of the time, they're buyers of people who have 5, 15 or 25 of their own companies where they're 100% owners, and when you sell 70% to him here, of course, that he'll move the income of that company into the one where he's a 100% owner. And then we have criminal charges, insanity, imagine what you're doing, blow up invoices, fake investment, etc. You put it in a model that pushes it in that direction, and you put people in that direction, because you know what, citizens say like this -- let me sign in here, I don't have any action, at least to make something happen. Then when he makes the stock, then he's quiet for five days, and when he tries to sell those shares, then he sees that there's no buyer at all, there's no buyer other than what's already reached 70%, and he's the only one who dictates the price, and he'll buy him his shares when he knocks the price down to a huge extent below book value, there's no competition. Why would someone give money to buy action from the citizens to be a small shareholder to be harassed by the majority, and no one's that naive. Our model completely avoids this system-based trap in an existing model of privatisation. We say this, so the state has taken over the assets of a stockholder society and immediately there are shareholders, states and we, and here we come to this claim from the beginning of my exposure that our model is not contrary to any international commitment. We're going to simplify that, since it's now a current example, we're selling to the Pancheva Refinery, I mean as a state, we've taken over this international commitment, and now there's no more extraction. I think it's wrong, it's over, it's in your contract, and there's no more pulling out in the serious sense of the word. So sell. Our model doesn't stop the sale at all, but when it's sold, it's going to sell 100% of the property, or as much property as it's sold, and the proceeds from that sale go to this stock company, where the state's 70% owner, and the citizens are 30%, so we're dividing the money. I'm preventing you from reorganizing, restructureing public enterprises, which is in the government's control according to the current models; I'm not stopping you. There's a lot of problems, difficult problems, but our legal models don't deal with it. When and if you decide to sell something, only money goes to me as a citizen. At the moment when the majority package is sold, I go to the price paid for the company's controlling majority package, not the state's money from the majority package, and after the transaction has been completed for us citizens of action. We don't need those actions. Thank you. So it's all the same, 70-30 for you, and 70-30 for us, just right now, before and independent from privatisation. Do you know what that means? Incomparably higher market value of actions for citizens. Our model, in which the property user is obliged to pay the rent, further increases the value of the stock and the state, and there is no. They say, you know, the state hasn't strategically defined what it's going to do yet, but we don't mind, our concept doesn't interfere with the country's strategic definition. It has 63% in its ownership and in this new company, if adopted. Just in case the state gives up its national interest and decides itself overnight that something is not in the national interest, so the case will work to sell to the Djerdap, only for the situation that someone in the state has decided that it is not a national interest, then at least the money goes to the citizens, and not just the state. So our mechanism isn't selling, selling and selling. Our mechanism, protect your national interest, and that's all right. Just in case you somehow get that national interest to slip away, then at least the money goes to the benefit of the citizens, not just for the benefit of the budget. Of course, we were fully aware that by showing up such large and significant stock companies, even in small percentages of 7, 10 or 15% of stock on the stock market, the value of capital, the amount of money needed to buy these shares, will far exceed the existing financial capacity of domestic investors. Our rich people don't have nearly any money so they can compete in market conditions to buy even 10-15% of these public enterprises. What does that mean? We call foreign investors. We will, since we haven't met with strategic partners, and since you don't have anyone to define yourself as a strategic partner in the case of the oil industries. Look around us, no one went through a strategic partner, but more shareholders in different packages. We call on foreign investors to buy marketable actions, thus investing in Serbia a realistic billion-euro capital that is exclaimingly missing from our country. They, in order to be ready to enter into something that is minority action packages, must have a clear insight into what kind of enterprise it is where tomorrow as a foreign investor should be a minority shareholder. That is why our laws, gentlemen MPs, have taken the same solutions from developed countries. As we suggest that these stock companies be organised, it's the same as they have in the UK, Germany, France, any developed country, so a model of investment fund trasts is taken over. Now it's on the agenda and the investment fund law, which further simplifies the whole story. So when someone says that what we suggest is strange, in fact, it proves that at the very least, they don't know how the developed world regulated it. I must say, we did not propose what developed countries suggest to countries in transition. Not that, but what they're applying to themselves. I'm kind of safer when we apply what they apply to themselves in developed countries than what they advise others who are like in change to do. So, once again, let's simplify ourselves, we're equally worth a year's work experience and who's employed in a public enterprise or who's retired today, and he's been employed in a public enterprise, as we're equally worth a year's work experience to whoever's in education or who's in education, who's in health care or who's been in health care, the state administration, the military, the police, the private, anyone. In that sense, our models are fully consistent with the basic models that exist here, significantly improve and rationalise state property, and what is essential -- the deadline. That 2010, 2011, 2012, do you know what that means? This means that those who have largely created this property, the current pensioners, unfortunately, will not be among the living. The average age of men is 68.5 years. Move them from 2006 to 5 years in advance and you will see that those who have full-time completed and retired statistically will not be alive at all. Their families will not be able to achieve the amount of these actions where these people have built up their working lives, and in their places they will compete with their grandchildren or children, who will be 18, 19, 20 years old, who, unfortunately, will have no years of employment at all. So our model that says -- it's absolutely possible and feasible that the whole division of actions ends this year, is not only accurate and not just desirable from the point of view of state property management, but very fair, because that's what we satisfy interests, first of all those layers that created what is being divided. This existing solution, it really shows a certain amount of cynicism, calculated that these people will not be alive. We'll wait until we see more debates, and then we'll go back to capitalizing the pension fund and exactly the model and split it through the privatisation register.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26488	Are any of the other promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26489	Mr. Vice President, I am one of the signatories of the People's Initiative and I guess the only MP who thought it was important to be where half a million people are, whatever it looks like to someone else. So, as a signator of the initiative, I will vote however others decide, so it was my duty to say at the very beginning, that someone does not question my decision, given what I'm about to say. It has already been said here -- the people's initiative is the fluidity of the 1990 democratic constitution. I remind you, not as the founder, but as someone who quotes Mr. Mamulu, whom I very much respect, who said here the other day, about the examination and adoption of the laws on churches and religious communities, that the Corps of Minority, Human and Civil Rights in the Constitution in 1990, with full capacity, is fully compatible with all the constitutions of modern European states, and, as such, the People's Initiative is made possible by solutions from such a constitution. I remind people in Serbia, because time is going by quickly, so it seems to everyone that it's all started today, and some people seem to start from yesterday or tomorrow. That's not true. Politics, in a broader sense, is the interaction between the programme objectives of political parties that go to the elections and those who vote for them and citizens who, when the majority will is established, therefore most in parliament should, on the basis of the political will of these political programmes, draw up programming solutions in the exercise of power in one state. It would be normal for it to always be so, but it's not like that in our country at all. A large number of people in Serbia vote for right-wing parties, and are later expected to plead for left-wing solutions. That's not possible at all. I remind you that there is one party here that has 35 MPs, that is the Democratic Party, which is an associated member of the Socialist International, whatever that means, and today is boycotting the 500,000 people's initiative. Since the well-respected representatives of the promoters have, in a sense, dealt with politics a little bit, because they have certain political ambitions, they do not dispute it, and I will deal with a little politics, without questioning their concept in principle. I already said I'd come out for him. You have another political party that is very large, where the party's leader says -- I don't think I'm changing my political programme to get free action in Serbia. That's 35 and 80, you see how many MPs there are. Approximately, they represent about two million citizens. I have to say exclusively now, the SPS has done a study, according to the method of a random sample, when it comes to the signatories of this initiative: 61% of the signatories of the People's Initiative would be declared in the elections, that today, for these two parties I'm talking about here. Dear gentlemen, the matter is simple: "When a man marries in haste, he repents." Everyone has the right to make mistakes and has the right to have the real consequences of a mistake that makes sense or from the position of ideological determination. I remember a time when representatives of these and other Serbian trade unions wore "Let everything stop to Serbia to dawn". Today, as we hear, the proposing's authorised representatives say it's dark in Serbia, and I apologize for getting it out of context, but in part, I'm thinking the same thing. It will be a long time in Serbia for Serbian citizens to carry out a clean bill of what it means to give confidence in someone in the election. To trust someone in the elections is a realistic expectation that the one for whom you have defined yourself in the elections is obliged to turn your political programme, which you have supported, into real political life, if it is part of the majority in the National Assembly. It's very important to know. Otherwise, unfortunately, everything else is here in the sphere of theory and can be called the real consequence of the delusion that someone's goodwill here in parliament will one day be on the side of those who have played, so for one reason or another they voted for conservative right-wing or party that have a liberal economic concept. It was my duty to say this, because there are also advocates who think there are no more left and right. It's one story that's a hundred years old, and it's invented by the agitprop departments of political parties and by the writers of their political programs. That's not true. Time will show that this prophylaxis must be clear, that you must know exactly what who is doing in one country when it comes to power and whether its political programme is doing as promised in the election campaign. When it comes to these dilemmas that were mentioned here, there are lots of them, it's hard to make an ideal concept. There are opinions, I must say, because different people come to us, they address us with letters, there are opinions even two major unions in Serbia, those who call Cankov and Smiljanic, although I would not call them that, have their names, which are against this concept or to the greatest extent do not support this concept for the reasons which they state and which I listen to with attention. There are others who think that employees in these public enterprises have achieved the highest possible benefits over the years compared to many other citizens of Serbia, because they were first lucky to become employed in such a collective, then have had a whole series of other small happinesss in terms of personal and general standards, schooling children, recreation, rest, quality protection at work, perfection and a whole range of other things. But these are the most important state-owned enterprises. They're doing the most important state-owned work and the state just needs to have mechanisms to determine the right and proper regulatory control, and there should be no dilemma about it. Also, I want to say that in Serbia there are those public enterprises whose founder is not a state, but local self-government, cities and so on, where there could be similar or identical demands, but there can also be words about it in the coming time. That's what I said, and when the distinguished representatives were at a meeting here a few months ago, there are things that are not defined in Serbia until the end, where we could prove different things. A huge number of Serbian citizens invested their resources in the basic assets of Telekom, EPS and other public enterprises. I can give you a few examples that you'll understand. I paid seven-and-a-half of my profits at a location in downtown Cacacka in 1987. That's how much it cost in ten wars. The post office only made a commitment, then the post office, that everything I installed with my money would become the primary asset of the PTT Public Enterprise in Serbia. That's what you'll find in every village where the electrification was done. That's what you'll find in every village where the telephony was done. You will now find this in 70, 80 municipalities of Serbia, where citizens finance a network of gas and so on. Now that we're talking about this, we need to make sure that they have some rights in this whole story. I am not talking about these rights that Mr. Pavlovic spoke of as citizens by general concept and general solutions. Why am I saying this? Because it's not possible to make an ideal solution. Someone will always be unhappy, there will always be people who think it could have been better and so forth. I have to say, unfortunately, I know the outcome of the people's initiative, and that's not why I'm happy. You probably didn't either, but here, you said, for the first time in the National Assembly, there was one right for the people's initiative to come on the agenda, that it was possible for the citizens to see that the authorised legislator of a law not only had to be a national MP, 15,000 citizens or a circuit assembly, but that they could be citizens like this joined around one goal that they think is common, which is worth political engagement and political struggle for them. I think this should be a practice in Serbia. There are other demands from other stakeholders in Serbia, who believe that they cannot otherwise set something in Parliament's agenda and with this, this has been a good opportunity to see a few questions. There was an opportunity, once again, to establish that there is a Constitution that knows and respects this category. There is a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which ensures that what is given by the Constitution must be implemented, put into the agenda. There is a moment where it is clear which political parties ignore the people's initiative because they do not attend parliament. There is a way to see who will vote for the People's Initiative and there is a way to see who will vote for the laws proposed by the People's Initiative. Anyone who can understand will understand. Once again, gentlemen, as a signator of your initiative in the voting day, I will vote for all the laws you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26490	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. Here you go, Mr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26491	Just to use it to be a little bit more dynamic, to explain the two dilemmas Mr. Baralic made in his presentation. One question is - and what about public enterprises whose founders are local self-government? We are fully convinced, since in these cases it is also state property, distinguish the founder who may be the Republic, the city or the municipalities, from the owners. He's also the owner in all cases of the state. Therefore, we have absolutely no dilemma that the same concept should be applied to all public enterprises at the place, with the size and scope of these companies not being needed for everyone, such as NIS or EPS or PTT, which contains Telekom. It's possible a company like that could be built for a local. I have to tell you that this concept of solving the locale would actually allow a very fast and simple solution to a whole series of other problems like denationalization. Make a stock company run by the Belgrade City Property Directorate. Admit to previous owners certain rights in management actions in the company, so let them manage it and rent it. You'll see they'll be much more pleased right away than they've been struggling for decades to keep their pay here or there. So this solution of ours is not only possible for local self-government, but that, when applied, an extremely fast and fair and economic well-being would solve a whole series of other problems. The second question Mr. Baralic raised was absolutely relevant. In fact, we have a situation to book a whole series of our public enterprises as their property, and then state property, something that was built with private money, private funds. In fact, I have to say that we have come to the conclusion in the analysis that none of our company's audit findings are good. This is very interesting when you look at the first information from one of the world's most reputed houses "Meril lynch", which is a consultant for the oil industry and refineries. They also say, we have a hard work to do on making value estimates, because none of what has been done before is useful. Our legal proposals contain the methodology of the audit finding and determine what the state property of this company is. These audit findings that we propose to these legislative proposals will be the first fact base to determine exactly what is being built by citizens' resources. You have, say, Mr. Baralic thought the entire low voltage networks were built by means of the citizens and then included in the EPS etc., gas, connections etc. For the first time, these audit findings, which are envisioned by these legislative proposals that we are discussing today, will be possible to withdraw the demarcation in financial terms, followed by the possibility and compensation in some sort of action or financial sense of these people. So we were absolutely aware of this problem and we installed, to the extent possible, an act to begin solving this problem already in this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26492	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the joint search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 93? The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milorad Vucelic. I haven't forgotten you, I have to satisfy the procedure, Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26493	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, the SPS as you know is the last defense of public enterprises. As you know, in this House on the path of privatization of public enterprises and their escape from state control, public property stands only the SPS. On that question, she's ready to bring down every government, including this one. Other issues can be treated like this and can be thought of anyway, but this is a question for us all, and I mean the question of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia's future. It is widely known that the SPS considers the 2001 Privatisation Act, with all its additions, to be very bad. It's known that logically we think, and I'm going to show it in the presentation, that our 1997 law on our own transformation was countless times better and, of course, another difference arises from all differences. Unlike all other political parties and parliamentary groups, we are the only ones with a concept and economy, and the production and development of Serbia in which these companies are publicly owned. We are the only ones who believe that such an economy can function as a market economy, and those who are skeptical immediately to it say that no one will say that France is a less market economy, and in it 54% of the social wealth owned by the state is publicly owned. All those neoliberals who smile, smile, and say that there is no one to say that they are not a market economy and that they are not an economy that rests on market principles. And, of course, from these differences, all other differences arise, including differences in access to these laws. As is known, the SPS MP Slobodan Milosevic received union representatives, spoke with them and supported these laws in the draft phase several months ago or perhaps half a year ago, I don't know how many, but about a few months ago. Today's date should be entered, if not in gold, and then in a red letter in the calendar of the new Serbian parliamentarianism. Today, for the first time since 2000 on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, as has already been said, there is a bill really proposed by the people. More than half a million signatures by full-time citizens, those who elected you dear MPs in the last elections, more specifically over 540,000, submitted a bill that would allow the adoption of a package of laws, which would allow for the distribution of free actions to employees in public enterprises and public services, which, I stress, would correct a huge injustice for millions of Serbian citizens. If I'm not mistaken, it's somewhere over four million Serbian citizens. Because I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in the privatisation process, all Serbian citizens who are employed in social enterprises, as well as those who worked in them before retirement, have received and receive free action. Some of them, like the shareholders of the Apathian brewery, "Knjiza Miloša", "Soko Sturka", "C Market", Pivare "Celarevo", were given hundreds of millions of euros by selling their shares. And gentlemen, let me remind you, that is precisely, to return to the beginning, according to the law this House passed when it was ruled by the SPS, it is according to that 1997 law. It was a law that was the right social reform, in which a self-counter worker turned into a shareholder, and he was also a shareholder and continued to work in the factory. After that, the state took over this social property the same way we did in 1991 with public enterprises and then privatized and sold, not often counting, as you know, on its true and real value. Compared to these workers, employees of public enterprises, the public sector, health care, education, judiciary, police, the military, according to current legal solutions, citizens are second in line. These laws, which came from the next initiative, can change that. The materials you have obtained have an explanation of the justifications of these proposals in the Constitution, as well as an explanation that the current situation of NIS, PTT, Telecom and EPS is contrary to our current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You also know what holding these companies under control means for the parties in power and what it, in this party's involvement, represents, which opportunity represents for various syncures or promotions of some of the party's interests. If the laws on the establishment of public enterprises in 1991 are the institutionalisation of property then existing social enterprises, such as the property of joint funds, in which the workers of these companies singled out the funds from their salaries, at the time of sanctions and wars and at the time of the second organisation of the economy and the concepts which then ruled, that it was only now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the time had come for the ruling parties to give up the management of them, which is very bad, for the benefit of all of us, for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. And that this government, especially the one before it, was a bad boss, was more than clear. In the now ruling parties, all of them, I read in the papers, when they are presented, are successful managers, entrepreneurs, good Serbian hosts. Then you certainly know what every good host does with his property, takes care of her, maintains her, makes sure she's bigger, and if she's really good, that works. Of course, at all times, I know what and how many there are, and the state, the owner of our property of public enterprises, doesn't do much. To be more trouble, to manage low, to God for social reasons, to the prices of certain products, to deliberately deprive public enterprises' assets, to be sold at lower prices tomorrow, or to say in vain, and to move into the hands of other and new owners. This is often done between party interests, even within the ruling coalition. From 2000 to today, there has been no published report on state property. And we had finance and economy ministers, and general property sectors that were considered prominent economists. They were and now, in this way I say it, they're prominent. Besides, there's no need to be a prominent economist. Ask every owner of a small company, a grocery store or a kiosk, if he knows what's in the store at all times. Of course he does, but our country doesn't know, or the boards of directors of public enterprises who use the property of the state. I understand the commitment of the parties to power and those who hope to come to power once within this concept, I understand this commitment to the boards of directors of public enterprises, it is sweet, but in every man's life there is a moment where he has to separate himself from his mother's lap, and the same is true and must apply to today's political parties in power. True, he says one of my friends, but psychologists also say it's a very traumatic experience. They don't know what the property of public enterprises is, whose transformation is proposed by these laws, nor by the resolute ministries, nor by the capital, nor by those who are not. They're just interested in not being told that I'm insinuating, that these companies are functioning during the term of office of this or some other similar government. This property is not taken care of by the finance minister, nor by the economy minister, they are not involved in the business at all, except when the salaries need to be controlled. The laws under discussion are clear to anyone who wants to see it, this is the state that changes from the foundation. They allow, without getting into the status of public enterprises and without affecting their further privatisation, and at first I said what the socialist's position is about, which is very important to some hearts too, the quality of care for the state property that is available. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that these laws are good for people, for all those who are citizens of second order, employees of public enterprises and those who have the misfortune to work in the public sector, doctors, medical staff, teachers and teachers, judges and judicial staff, police officers, peasants, employees of the SCG Army, and pensioners whose humiliation has reached tragic conditions. They all get these laws. The Socialist Party of Serbia has supported and supports the government, aware that some of the unpopular measures the government has taken were necessary. The SPS, however, thinks there is no reason for Serbian citizens to be smurfed in this case as well. On the contrary, the adoption of these laws would be a better life right now and here for a large number and the largest number of Serbian citizens. Citizens, who with reasonable interest follow this debate, know that. This parliament should know that, too, and should accept and adopt these laws, fortunately and well-being for the majority of the country's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26494	Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of the law of Article 93 who wants a word? He doesn't want to. Here you go. Of course, it would be easier, what Mr. Vucelic said, to defend the 1997 law than to adopt a new one now. But those who didn't want to defend him will now find it hard to adopt him, because I can only see that they are registered on the Socialist list and defend their concept. The others have a different concept, and I hope that the citizens of Serbia, who signed this petition, will have that in mind, and especially those who broke the 1997 law, and are now representatives of the signatories to have him returned in a different way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Relja Popovic of the Associations of Elektrovojvodina Novi Sad, members of the Union of Workers of the Elektroprivreda Srbija. I will try to focus your attention not on repeating what my predecessors have said, but to apostrophe the most significant details that would try to clarify all of you the reasons why we insist, as representatives of the promoters in front of over half a million citizens who have signed or voted, because that is also a condition for handing over this initiative. There's been a lot of use here. True, we want to amend the law on privatisation and adoption and adoption of these three system laws immediately and now. The benefits of this are not only for those of us who propose it, they do not only have employees in the public sector, they do not have these four million citizens. As Mr. Pavlovic mentioned, the biggest benefit will be the state, will finally know what it owns, will finally manage the property in the way the good boss should manage. Here in the face of the government's opinion and now in the past few days it has been mentioned most often, the problem is the privatisation register, it should become a privatisation fund, it takes several years. Where the privatisation fund, which prevents the government from making regulations for the past four or five years, has not made the privatisation fund and distributed the money from the existing privatisation. Let's see, let's brag, we've got the tobacco industry, the brewery, the cement store. It's estimated to be about 140m euros somewhere. Have you ever discussed here the amount of the 15% dividend that has been split by the 2001 law? No, there's no mention of it. We keep mentioning successful privatisation, there's been so much money, and 15% of the current regulations are supposed to belong to these small shareholders. Where they are in that privatization register, who decides on, in whose name here or elsewhere someone gives up or directs those funds in some other way, as it is otherwise said, some pension equal, and again from the same users of the proposal of these laws, teachers, pensioners, educations and all those on whose behalf we speak here. It is also not a little bit important to mention whether we have overprotected our interests from the public sector, and yet I say it is incomprehensible that there is news in this country, a sign that someone owns not thousands of hectares of arable land, but is talking about hundreds of kilometers of territory, and most often as a result of the application of the 2001 law, the Law on Privatisation. So it comes into possession, based on such consequences of such a law, several hundred square miles of our country. We shouldn't have any delusions about all this. This is good not only for these people who signed it, not just for the people who spoke for their families back then, not just for all the ones we counted, and let's count them again, they listen to this, they signed it, they were here a year ago. So, pensioners, teachers, education, health care, science, state administration, and you here who are ahead of us. It is useful now to adopt, but it is for the future of their children, because it is a terrible concept, as mentioned earlier, that in five years 7,000 euros is the maximum for one pensioner by existing regulations and concept, count on five years from now for so much less capital the state will have to hand it over to the public. Don't miss that chance. This is not a law aimed at one or another political option. This is a folk initiative. It was signed by all citizens regardless of political belonging and whatever the government's stance on all of this, and this lack of presence speaks enough today. You have a chance to correct it, to finally put an end to a process that lasts and a process that goes back 17 years. I think we're the record guys in the privatisation process. Don't take that chance, not because of you, but because of our children who are supposed to stay in this country to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26496	I thank you, only unfortunately in parliament vote political options and according to the political programme of these policy options, something can go away or not, and your initiative is only in line with the SPS programme. That's a fact. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, my name is Veljko Milosevic, until recently the president of the NIS Trade Union, and from a month ago the president of the Independent Union of Energy and Petrochemia of Serbia. We have heard from this pay phone today, respected citizens, and I am speaking to you on this occasion, that the outcome of the people's initiative is predetermined. I must, on behalf of the promoters, on behalf of all these signatories, which is half a million citizens and those four million citizens of this country who are waiting with the impatience of the outcome of this people's initiative, to address the citizens again. We're not here to beg for help. We didn't come here to talk about how hard it is to live in a time of transition. We have come to explain the laws we have proposed, because we are convinced that they are serious, good for you, and for the Assembly, for the state and for us, all citizens of Serbia. If you want to listen and understand, you'll understand that these are serious and good laws. Like I said, in five days, the signatures gave half a million citizens. Imagine at election time for a month, so how many signatures would it be on these laws. Maybe citizens who follow the transmission of this session and have no idea of that number, but you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, need to know that. So much for the seriousness of this people's initiative. There's something I have to say about the quality of the proposed laws. In the language of citizens, not professional language, citizens who need to hear and see the reasons and well-being of the adoption of these laws that would come out of them. These laws provide for the sharing of free shares of all employees in public enterprises EPS, NIS, PTT, all their pensioners, all those who worked in these companies and those who worked in companies that entered these public enterprises. There are, according to pretty serious estimates, about 100,000. True, and the government recognizes our right to free action, but the legal solution that we are proposing and that we are here to explain would bring them truly valuable actions, unlike, to call it, those governmental ones, which are not worth anything. The actions we stand for would have value on the market, would have been money, and the Government would, of course, not, because we advocate the division of actions before privatisation and before the sale of the majority package. The government offers us after privatisation, which no one will be interested in, because it will already have a majority package. So our laws would allow one hundred thousand Serbian citizens to profit materially. Of course, what's good for 100,000 citizens doesn't have to be good for all of Serbia. Speaking of public enterprises, let me say this. The laws we propose provide for ways of good management of them and the property they possess. We all know that when the owner of the property was without mercy, the state didn't care about the necessary investments in the maintenance of the equipment and the development and that we're not talking. Why is she doing this? It's not my place to talk. It's my job to tell you that the laws that you're going to vote on are good for the future of public enterprises, because they allow good management of them and enable their development, and that's good for a country older than one government, you'll agree. Let's keep going. It is known that pension funds money is invested in large buildings in Serbia and crediting the Republic and municipalities' budgets. Electricity, the oil industry and PTT facilities are, to a greater or lesser extent, created by investing money from pension funds and budgets. The package of laws we have proposed also provides that part of the quality actions be allocated to the pension fund, that part of the state property is transferred to the property of the pension fund. It's about millions of euros, ladies and gentlemen of the people. This would reduce the problems that need to be addressed by a possible reform of the pension system and guarantee the real value of pensions to current and future pensioners. That, you'll agree, is good for about a million and a half people in Serbia. But it's not all that we've proposed to these laws. The laws we have proposed, which I claim to be good for both us and the state, solve the problem of sharing free shares with public sector employees. A problem the government can't solve. Let me remind you, the Privatization Register is a fund formed by the Privatisation Act, with the intention of providing action for those citizens who cannot achieve this right on any other basis. So far, the total accounting values have been coupled with slightly more than 100m euros, and according to what the government predicted, the actions from it will be divided when the entire privatisation is complete. We heard today when it was. The Privatization Register, of course, was spoken by my predecessors. With this, ladies and gentlemen, the number of Serbian citizens who will have a direct and tangible benefit from our laws is climbing to four million, and what is good for four million citizens, plus their children, must be good for all of Serbia, so before we say so - let's sell buildings and machines of public enterprises and share money with those citizens of Serbia, but I will repeat, we are looking for, and we are proposing and allowing the exact opposite, good management, effective management of the property of these companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these four million citizens, I hope, are watching this TV broadcast and waiting for a reasoned debate, which is mostly missing from your side here. It will depend, of course, on the fate of our actions, worth a thousand, two, five thousand euros or nothing. You can vote both yes and no. I made my arguments, and my fellow promoters, why you should vote for it. If you vote against, you'll have to explain to the citizens of Serbia, you'll have to tell them why you took their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26498	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pavlovic. No one here is going to take any money. For the first time, actions and the right of workers were taken by repealing the 97 law, when the right of workers to be owners of these actions was effectively abolished. And who was fighting for the immediate lifting of the law, of course, to go straight to the public scene and say, and not right now this law, and in 2000, it was so to immediately abolish the 1997 law, and now it is the MPs who have been abolished. Those who voted here to change that law were abolished. Here you go, Mr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26499	Thank you, little dyspression. I have the pleasure that now that all the effects of the 2001 law have been examined, I remind myself that I was the only one in the DOS to vote in principle against that law at the time, so that I was clear in 2001, in which direction it was going and that this could not be a good solution for a country in transition as Serbia is. Let's go back to a few questions and maybe bring in, as far as we're concerned, the debate is over. We are very pleased that those MPs who agree with this concept have come out and expressed their views, with certain disputes in parts, and expressed their opinions, but I am very uncomfortable that no one who disagrees with this concept has come out here to hear why. It would be a real parliamentary debate if all those who will be against this law tomorrow, and some of them have already voted on the Privatisation Committee against one of the four legislative proposals in principle, went out for the assembly speaker and explained to us what their motives and reasons are. I must say that their motives and reasons have not even been heard on this Assembly Privatisation Committee since they didn't discuss it at the time. So it would be important for the citizens of Serbia if they had heard of another side, but then I can't rather go on with two or three more issues that are important to understand this whole concept. With an apology for going out for the third time, but simply four legislative proposals are in a united debate and then it is not possible to present all the complex elements of these proposals at once, and that someone who listens to it understands what we're talking about. Most often in public, you will hear disputes that this is populism, that this is a submission to the will of citizens, you will hear a whole series of negative value courts about us that we have been working on and on representatives of the unions who have presented this people's initiative. You won't hear the arguments, and I always warn you, whenever someone starts talking by saying, he's ugly and evil, I don't know what kind of, pay attention to whether behind those valuable courts follows any reasonable, rational argument that could justify such qualifications. When you're reading what's written, and it starts with the thesis -- it's populism and what's said, and especially with the thesis -- it's a citizens' retrieval, then you'll see that there are absolutely no arguments behind such claims. We have been having an extensive public debate since 15 June 2005, when we also submitted in writing the draft of these laws to the Ministry of Finance. We are constantly having a public debate, we have 54 stands in Serbia. No economic argument why this would not be good for the state or for the citizens has ever been presented. The government has made legal arguments in its opinion, and they come down to the fact that our laws would not be in accordance with the legal system, and if you read those two or three sides of the reasoning, that is their basic thesis. Fortunately, the Legislative Committee has sat down and discussed these very issues, of course, made a decision that this is all right, that our legislative proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legal system and that their adoption of any problems in the legal system would not exist. So we have a situation where there are no objections to economic content and we have the Legislative Committee of the Serbian Assembly, and our belief is that all of this is legally clean and harmonised. Now the question is, why there is no open debate, why those who are against can't come out, in my deep confidence, for this pay phone and say, we're against it and that. Because it is of fundamental interest today to be against these legal proposals in continuing the party expropriation of state assets used by public undertakings. They'd actually have to go out for a pay phone to say - we'd be against it because we want to continue to arch state property. Any attempt at a different argument would actually be revealed to a vast audience here as an empty story, and then it would be seen that we are absolutely founded just and exclusively on an argument. No populism at all. The fact that a solution has been found for four million citizens, it is not populism in itself, would be populism if it were to harm someone else's very serious and important national interest, which in this case there is no talking about it. That's why there's no discussion. I hope that the number of those who, pressing the button in voting day, will put their name and last name below the desire to continue with the party spending of state property will be very small. I hope that the MPs in the voting day will justify the trust they received in the elections and say: no, we want the property to be used rationally and much better than it is under the current system, and we want to solve the problem for four million citizens of Serbia because it is a common interest. There are two things left not sufficiently clear in our concept so far, and I'm going to take the opportunity to explain them further now. One is the capitalisation of the pension fund, which is foreseen by our legal solution. And the second is, once again about that privatisation register, to make it easier for citizens to follow it, it's about the mechanism of how the actions are poured into one place, and then, after that, to all those who are in health, education, the state administration and the rest, since we are predicting the fourth legislative proposal, we are only changing that part. So the value of the actions that are really divided into the state and the citizens, in fact, by our deep conviction, is far less than the real property managed by public enterprises today. Since we are predicting a legal serious revision, this revision will show that the property is far larger and then requires additional broadcasting of actions. To what benefit? In favour of the pension fund. Why? Because the state owes the pension fund. The fact that it's a pension fund, but watch out, not a private pension fund, who took much better care of what was going on with their assets, so today they're doing property business, and they're normally paying off their pensions, but they're paying off the pension fund that was being taken care of by the state, which doesn't normally take care of property, and then neither does theirs, it's emptying it. I have to say that the generations that are currently retired were born after World War II farthest in Serbia and they had a very high employment rate. They had a huge number of years of work experience, so they made a very large amount of contributions. For their working century, those generations that were born before World War II were paid off, which were far less numerous, and now you have a large amount of people who are in high employment and who pay contributions. It's paid to a smaller number of people, pensions, it's got to be extra. They say the pension fund doesn't have a surplus, it has a huge deficit. If there's a shortage, that means the state is in debt. If the state is in debt, then he has to pay back what he owes. I understand that Serbia has no money today, but it has property. We predict that the assets, the actions of companies that manage the property of public enterprises, will make up for it with pension funds. What do we get? We'll get a pension fund as one of the biggest shareholders in Serbia. What does it look like in developed countries? Same thing. And with them, pension funds are the biggest shareholders in their systems. What do we get? We'll get additional rational management of state property. Why? Because the pension fund cannot play populism when it manages the property, it must make sure that the property is maintained and increased, because that is the only way it will make income, from which income will be able to pay pensioners their pensions. What does that mean for all of us who aren't close to retirement? That means the tax burden will fall immediately. Today, we pay our contributions, and besides, the state through the tax system, out of all of us, additional funds are being used to transfer it from the budget to the pension fund. When we capitalize on a pension fund, when we let him manage a large amount of shares in public enterprises, he earns income from such management. To a large extent, there's no need to finance it from the budget anymore. The whole so-called story. The pension fund reform, which always comes down to one thing -- how you're gonna pay pensioners less, the story is always in the table, and when you unwrap those table corners, it's always the same -- how to pay pensioners less, it's unnecessary. An economic rational solution is possible, in which you will capitalise on the pension fund, allow it to make its incomes normal and to a significant extent disbursement the employees today, that they do not have to, in addition to contributions, pay through the pension fund tax. On the other hand, you'll be able to manage state property much better, because you get one big shareholder who thinks he's an individual boss -- how to make property where I am a shareholder as big as possible. Privatization register. What did we propose these amendments to the Privatization Act? Our basic idea is, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia and under the existing regulation is obliged to pass a regulation that you share actions with all those who will not achieve it in another way, so it did not, then our proposal to amend and supplement the law avoids any bureaucratic obstruction and sets a 60-day deadline for the government, within which time it must resolve that issue. You'll hear how impossible it is. What's impossible? There are different solutions and they're all possible. So they say they can't do it before the privatisation ends. What are you going to do at the end of the privatisation? Here, the privatisation is over and you have some kind of fund that, not in 2006, as we propose, but in 2012, is filled with some kind of action. How do you share that with millions of citizens now? It cannot be divided, under existing regulations, without additional regulations in the power of the government. So, and then the government will have to pass a regulation that will either make an investment fund out of a register; what does that mean – it will broadcast company actions to millions of citizens, and this company will manage these different actions (the tobacco industry, cements, public enterprises, etc.). Or they will split the vouchers, and will auction for the sale of 15% of the shares of this company and this company, and the citizens will go in to the vouchers. Now we say a very simple thing: do it now. On the other hand, we say: apply the system to all public enterprises. There's no privatization register of what to expect, except for what to do with public enterprises. There's nothing to fill. The smaller problem, even this dramatic problem, is that it is 2010, 2012 or some later year. The key problem is he's empty. It's got to fill something up. What are you going to fill it with besides the property of public enterprises? Nothing. Here's an example of Moby 63. Serious property. In that company, the state owns 70%. Does 30% of these companies, according to existing regulations, belong to citizens? Yeah. Does the state sell 70% of 70%, so 49% of the company? No, she put out an ad saying she sells all 70 percent. What will educational workers, military, police, health care get, since the company doesn't have an employee, what will they get in the privatisation register? Nothing. Therefore, which we still have companies that would be significant: Petrochemy, there the state has acquired a significant part of ownership by the conversion of debt and cannot be divided; the PKK and there is no fourth company. Everything else is public enterprises. We tell you one simple thing: apply a model to all public enterprises, solve the issue of division of actions immediately, enable the privatisation register to be full and then oblige the Government to pass within 60 days a regulation that regulates how it will divide it. If they don't know, we know, they can hire us, we'll settle it in 15 days. It's not a problem at all. The government's answer is, it's impossible. Wait, it's not a flood, it's not a slide, it's not an earthquake. You've passed a regulation that put four million citizens in an impossible situation. When someone says they can do it the other way, they tell you they can't. Why can't he? Because I've solved things differently. Now we're going round and round. So absolutely possible is a simple and quick solution. Just what would happen? There would be control of what happens to the vast assets that are already there and that will blend to a much greater extent into that privatization register. Finally, when we simplify everything and we say that the key difference for citizens - if the existing system continues to end and if our system is adopted, according to the existing system, when someone makes 20 years of work experience and comes out tomorrow on the market to sell its shares, they will not get more than a thousand-and-a-half euros. In our system, when someone who does 20 years of work and gets out on the stock market tomorrow to sell their shares, they'll get six to seven thousand. That's what we're talking about today. We're talking about a huge difference in money that citizens can make, number one, and number two, we're talking about that they can make this year, not some 2010 or some other year.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26500	I thank you, Mr. Pavlovic. I also thank the proposings of the People's Initiative and these laws and representatives who participated today in the work and the interpretation of the legislative proposals that are on the agenda. I hope that if the initiative does not pass at this assembly session, the voters will support those who will provide them with a parliamentary majority so that this law is passed. I conclude the principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, the Proposal for a Law establishing the Action Society "NIS - CAPITAL", the Proposal for a Law establishing the Action Society "EPS - CAPITAL". I'm finishing my morning work. We'll continue at 14.00 hours of debate on point 16. A bill on the return and restitution of property to churches and religious communities, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We continue the afternoon work of the Fourth Session. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RETURNING LAW (RESTITUTIONS) OF THE IMPROVAL OF THE C ChurchES AND THE WRITING COMMUNITIES (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the independent MPs 9 plus 9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia - 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, three independent MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that an authorised representative for the DSS Arsen Kurjački parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search, which we will not begin until the representatives of the ministry arrive. Please, in five minutes, MPs will be informed of why all the representatives of the ministry, who were notified in time, are late. Please, in 14.05 notice, we certainly won't start before all the representatives of the ministry arrive. [[After break - 14.10.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll be leaving in a few seconds, as I have announced. Sometimes even ministers cannot believe to what extent the National Assembly is effective and accurate. You agree not to wait 14.15, since the notice is pointless, because the minister has arrived in the meantime, so there's no need to give an additional explanation. So, since I'm in agreement with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, opened a principled search, now I ask if the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodic, wants the Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs? Here you go, Mr. Parisian.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26503	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure and honor today to present to you the bill of return (restitution) of property to churches and religious communities. This law is one of those historical laws, which aim to correct historical injustice, when a government that was not democratic, even less national, took away property from people who had acquired it fairly and then owned that property on the basis of an ideology that went bankrupt before the end of the 20th century. The concepts of this ideology have been defeated on an economic, political, sociological plan and we are now in a position to correct the consequences of ideological blindness, which occurred especially in the 40s and 50s of the last century in Serbia and throughout Eastern Europe. Eastern and Central Europe, all Eastern and Central European countries have resolved these issues and unfortunately we are at the end of that column, one of the last, if not the last country that has not implemented the restitution of property. As a result, this government fulfills the promise made to its people to restitution of the property that has been seized or, in the event of inability to restitution, to give an adequate fair compensation to those who cannot be returned to nature. The bill before you is primarily directed at the restitution of property to churches and religious communities. This includes Christian churches, the Islamic religious community, the Jewish religious community, and other religious communities that are of course fully equal in our country, and this law treats them in an equal way. The reasoning that this bill follows shows that the Federal Law on Agricultural Reform and Colonization since 23 August 1945 has been taken from churches, religious responsibilities, monasteries and religious institutions, so to speak. Excess, what they believed to be excess, of more than 10 ha of their total area of fields, gardens, vineyards, orchards, urinals and forests, with those of greater importance or historical value being left up to 30 ha of arable land. Also, thousands of church and monastery estates of different areas were stately, so that these holdings were significantly involved in the education of the so-called so-called ". the agricultural reform and colonisation land fund. According to the Law on Nationalisation of Rental Buildings and Building Land since 1958, the seizure of church property has been carried out i.e. housing and business facilities, apartments and building land and these properties to churches and religious communities to this day returned. This law regulates a fair, fair, civilist, civil law, the process of restitution of property to churches and other religious communities. The law is also a precedent, which will serve for the recent adoption of a general law on denationalisation, which will actually regain trust between citizens and the state in Serbia. So the purpose of this law is to establish a private property institute, the purpose of this and the future general law on denationalisation is to reconcile citizens with their country and has one re-civilizing effect on our legal system. Kidnapped. It must not be taken what has been obtained by law. On that principle, legitimacy and legality are based on this law. In short, I will give you the basic solutions to this law. So the basic principle is the restitution in the natural form of the property that was taken away. The restitution obligation in natural form is the current owner of a certain immovable or possibly mobile property. When we talk about movable property, this law deals primarily with those moving things that are of historical importance, which are important for the continuity of church action, which are of artistic importance and related to the church. It's not other moving things, it's just being narrowed down to these things of special importance. As far as real estate is concerned, they generally return to nature, i.e. in natural form. Where that is not possible, the state will give the bonds compensation, compensation, compensation for that outstanding property. Physical persons, because the churches are, I stress, because churches and other religious communities, by definition of a philanthropic institution and did not ask to return property from natural persons, means natural persons who, of course, remain in possession of cargo business and property, but also those other natural persons who are not burdensome but well-being, free business or at non-market prices of property, and they will remain in possession and the state will compensate for the fact that the church or other religious community will not be returned. As far as legal persons are concerned, there is a distinction between legal persons who, under market conditions, have acquired property rights on that property and those not under market conditions, have acquired property rights, but through some administrative availability of those palettes, the method used in fact to spill social wealth from one entity to another over the past 50 years of the communist system. So those who have acquired their real estate under market conditions and other legal entities remain in possession, because they simply cannot be taken away from what people have fairly paid under the laws of the country, they remain in possession, and the state assumes the obligation to pay to churches or other religious communities. On the other hand, those who are not on market conditions will be obliged to return that property to their churches and other religious communities. That's the basic solution. Who will enforce this law? The administration, which will be specifically established for the implementation of this law, will be a republican authority. The administration will also serve as a general restitution when we soon pass a law on general restitution, it will certainly have several, five-six-seven branches across Serbia's territory, so that people don't all have to travel to Belgrade to submit their demands. Experience has shown that it is very important for the restitution process to be organised in a centralised manner by a republican institution with its branches. The decision taken by the administration we are talking about, the restitution administration, will be final and executive, the dissatisfaction party will be able to appeal to the Supreme Court of Serbia, or to the administrative court if it is established in the meantime. These are the basic solutions to this law. He was written in a very clear, classical civilian language, understood by an ordinary man, and it is very necessary, because this is a law that is intended for ordinary people and should benefit an ordinary man, at no extra cost at consultations by lawyers or some other specialists who would help the people apply this law. This law is intended for churches, the general law on denationalisation will be devoted to all those citizens who have been property damaged by a system that did not respect the right of property, and thus we will leave one mark in history as a government that has regained normality in property relations in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26504	Thank you, Parisian. First notification of complete information on authorised representatives. So, apart from Arsen Kurjakko, who is an authorised representative for the DSS parliamentary group, which I have informed you of, in the meantime, authorities for Nikola Novakovic have officially arrived in front of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and Meko Omerovic, in front of the MEP Group for European Serbia. I ask if the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go. The president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has at least two very clear principles regarding the assets you call taken away by various judgments, decisions, measures. There's one -- there's no coming back. Because it affects relationships created for 60 years, because it enters the legal order and because it enters legal security. But corrections to injustice, to the extent possible, there is and should be done. We have submitted amendments to this bill that we fully represent our concept. I would only ask that you give Mr. Minister, we have made an effort and we have made a copy for all the heads of the parliamentary groups, and also for the minister, approximately, of the bill, to make it look like if you accept our amendments. If someone didn't get it from the heads of parliament, I apologize, they'll get it. SPC is a starving, martyrly church. But she never tried to be a financial organization, she never did business, she never had a bank, she never got into capital. She was taken from her property, also taken from Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. Perhaps the most property SPC was seized by Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. The cause was always human. He was inhabiting the poor girl. It was done after World War II, so don't tell me it wasn't the people's government. It was the people's government, the people were with that authority at the time. Perhaps the moves are not from this historical distance to the taste of some who perform democracy or private property, but do not judge the time of 1945 when one bread was to feed 50 souls or when it was to accommodate the poor woman who had been burned, robbed property, murdered men. Each country leads in its own way. May I ask, whose property did you sell yesterday when you sold the Metropol Hotel? Whose property is this? The government sold it, and whose? You're called the kidnapped goddammit. The Greeks paid, to whom, who built this hotel, whose funds, which all the social enterprises built, built, and someone else gets money for it, some funds, so these funds go to new capitalists even to raise their capital. I'm not trying to get that far when I'm judging someone for the moves they're making, but I'm trying to do it at a time when they're making moves. After five, ten, fifteen years, it's easy to accuse and judge. After all, property was taken away from the churches in the west when it was believed to have exaggerated. Now, I think our bishops will agree that everything doesn't have to be returned. Not every injustice can be fully corrected. You're saying it won't be a natural person's duty to return the property, it'll bring back the state. And what's the state? The state is a set of physical faces. If you don't take it out of his pocket, you'll take it over the budget to others. Did the church ask you to make her every penny? I don't think so. I wish I'd seen a position of the SPC somewhere whose property I mean in the most part and taken away. Of course, I respect the principle of being returned to all, and that is why, in time, one law was assessed as unconstitutional by the President of the Republic, who was supposed to sign it, and even his congregation majority in this assembly never again put him on a re-election under the Constitution, even though she was obliged, even though she did not vote again. But the law on the return of SPC property was not in accordance with the Constitution. This one is in that part that treats all churches equally, but is not established by the principle of obsolescence of all the actions that have been taken, done and based on which someone has lost their property. That's why we've tried to really try to get what's possible to get back, give it to permanent use, because the state can make permanent use of this constitution. In the next constitution you've been writing for five years, predict that it can be property, predict, I won't mind if I live. But here, the SRS parliamentary group will have no objection to the new constitution predicting that it is the right to have. It's not possible at this time, you can give it for permanent use and you know it's the same, but in accordance with the Constitution. The state's assets are available through the Property Directorate and through various assets. If you adopt that principle that there is no fee in cash, what the church will do for money, to make her feel the sins of 1945. Don't talk to the representatives of the church. It's not a church organization to take from the people. The people of the church volunteer. Do not legally prescribe that the people of the budget should now give some money to the church because some property that cannot be returned was taken from the church in 45 years. If she can't be returned, she won't be returned. But if there's no field taken from the church, and somewhere there's a field of state, that can be given for permanent use, go ahead. If there is no first category there are others, give in twice the size of the country of the second category, five times the country of the sixth category, give for permanent use, no return. The word "return" should be thrown out, because you're opening a precedent for a law against which we're going to be much sharper. I hope you won't be in this configuration by now, so it won't even occur to you that you're proposing a restitution law. There is no courtship to the European Union because we will pass this law. Yesterday Angela Merkel said we'd never be in the European Union. That's not what I'm a skeptic said, that's what a woman who's opposed to certain European countries ever being in the European Union said. He says -- we'll be good neighbors, we'll form some organizations through which they can co-operate with us, but those countries won't be in the European Union. That's what the German Chancellor says. Don't put any more arguments into writing that we're passing this law in order to get in touch with the European Union, which you say we have accession negotiations. The argument was written before the negotiations were suspended. Now we come to what is crucial, which is urgency, urgency because of Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know what kind of state you live in, but with this bill of law and reasoning, the government tells me -- negotiations are under way on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, if property in Kosovo and Metohija remains state-owned, we will lose it, and if it is church-based, we will save it. You have to explain to me how you cannot save the state property, and you will save the church in Kosovo and Metohija, or perhaps for all the country in Kosovo and Metohija Albanians take, the church, you here from the budget to pay the fees. It will not be legally legal business or their companies, legal persons, etc. This hurts. It's easy to say in public, and you're even, which is incomprehensible, but here I was going after the fact that you can't charge me with every word, but it hurts when you say that Kosovo and Metohija are meant in Serbian territory. Unheard of. Then I had to add -- the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which is currently under protection, over there, according to UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Now in Serbia, you convince us that under the territory of Serbia you mean Kosovo and Metohija, and I accept that you only pass this law because Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia. What a blockade in your head that you must emphasize to us when you mean Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia's territory, and when not, because in other laws, I have not seen a provision for Kosovo and Metohija to be understood under Serbia's territory. Does this mean that no other law will be applied in Kosovo and Metohija and you do not count that this is our territory, and only for the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities in Kosovo and Metohija you treat in Serbia. Give us one law that has one member and say - from now on in all the laws of Kosovo and Metohija is treated as the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Avoid reminding us that we do not know what you will achieve in the negotiations on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26506	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26507	Yeah. I'll finish up soon, so if there's anything left, I'll use it later. So we're not a priority against you making damages, that you don't damage other people, and it's damaged others, and if you give it out of the budget. Talk to the church. The church won't insist on the 100% return you're predicting here. She knows what kind of church she lives in. She knows what kind of citizens support her. She suffered, and the citizens were killed. We're a poor country. A richer country or if you had managed to get us up to some level in these six years, you wouldn't have thought about it, you'd have paid in money if you couldn't get it back, and we don't have it from where, we don't have anything. Give them back everything that the state holds, it's very easy and very simple, don't touch the poor girl who built houses on their property or was inhabited. Colonization wasn't an act of retribution, it was an act of saving either from hunger or from who knows what. Besides, what would it look like to you today if it wasn't for colonization, whose would have been it? I can't agree that every bill begins with a conviction of 45, 48, 90, 95. Cut it out. Act like someone who's been in power for six years. Six years from now, you were able to correct all injustices, because many injustices are easy to correct, and some you will never be able to correct. Who is he who can correct all injustices. I don't think you'll have that much trouble with other churches. I expect bigger problems when you go into the business of determining the date from which you pay back your citizens' property, because if everything is unconstitutional and can be determined, the date from which everything that has been taken away is unfair, and before that it was all just. I don't expect that, even if you adopt our amendments... But, Mr. Minister, you're defending the bill today, and you don't even know if any amendments have been made to that bill. That means you'll refuse the amendments, I don't know if it's come from other parliamentary groups, but you're right from some state business you came to the Assembly to defend the law, prepared exclusively for the bill you sent to the Assembly. And this congregation exists and will exist when we are in power, and someone else in opposition, that the government hears the opposition as well. You don't have to listen to us, but here I'm counting on your conscience and counting on your knowledge. Today, the opposition has much to tell you about this bill. Maybe something you didn't consider or thought it would go away and no one would remember. Think carefully. It's not courting a church if you say-- we're paying you back your property. It's not an attack on the church if you say - we're giving you a permanent use. Only in other terms do you fit into the system, in the constitutional system by which you must behave, whether you want to or not, after which you end up sitting here as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the ruling majority thinks about our amendments, if the concept of the law, which we don't essentially touch but we adapt it to both opportunities and the Constitution, is changed to the extent that it is acceptable for us, here is an opportunity for you to experience that for one law proposed by the SRS parliamentary group in the voting assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26508	One note, so there wouldn't be confusion, a note for the minister. Since the law was passed by MPs on an urgent procedure for consideration, the amendments have come to the beginning of the debate, meaning until 14.04, and what is very important will be the time, more than 10 days, for the amendments to be carefully considered, so I simply assume that everyone who speaks will take care of it. I'm talking about a plan so the Assembly can work for the next few days. So I speak for all MPs and MPs. I am taking the opportunity to remind myself that I have sent one letter, as president of the Assembly, to all the heads of the parliamentary groups that refer to another category that is not explicitly defined. So, one period relating to the Jewish municipalities, I passed on to that, and you will all of course decide. The minister wants a word, please, and then I'll ask for presidents again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26509	Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, we have fundamental differences in understanding the social organization. Mr Nikolic spoke of it, believes it should not be returned and the concept of return should be excluded under the law that needs to correct the injustice produced by nationalisation. You see, the right to use is a unclean legal concept, which is invented as a socialist version of a substitute for using certain things, for property attributes when the state has a monopoly. It was specifically predicted by the Serbian Constitution that there was a right to use city building land because it introduced a state monopoly on city building land. It's a concept that no serious country knows. They only had countries with communist civil rights. No country that has a successful economy first has a state monopoly, by definition. The state does its job. The job of the state is the court, the military, the tax service, the security of the citizens. That's what the state's business is. The job of the state is not to be a monopolies, because when any entity, or the state itself, is a monopolies of property, such as city building land or other form of property, then you can't have democracy in the country, because one entity is too accumulated in power, and the state by definition is a slow, inefficient owner, and that property is deadened by state property. As a result, no efficient economy has a state monopoly and there is no right to use. Therefore, our goal of the project, which actually means rehabilitation, the recreation of the property institutes as one of the basic civilization institutes, is precisely to shut down these quasi-institutions, such as the right to use, such as the right of housing law, which is why a buy-in was introduced during the 1990s, so that these simple concepts, unclean concepts, in fact eliminated and things introduced into a clear legal framework can be recognised by modern legal civilization. We're really conceptually diverged about it. Second, you told the church what money would do. In that case, the government can say at one point, what it's going to do to someone else's money, what it's going to do to that company, what Perry's going to do with the money. That concept where the state wonders what someone's money is going to do under the law is an anti-legal principle. It's the principle where the state exceeds the legal order and it arbitrarily decides what to do with someone at a certain point. Another Emperor Dusan has raised our civilizational level above that principle where the state assesses who needs what, whether someone needs money or not, and that's exactly the money and that property that belongs to the laws of that country to that owner. So I wouldn't ask why the church needs money. I think the law should guarantee property. A church that doesn't need money should give it away, but anyone who has a certain property must be preserved, and the job of the state is to protect that owner in his rights. You also said, Mr. Nikolic, that the government in 45-50 was still a national government. You saw this movie that was in Belgrade one, a documentary that was the other day. You have seen well how this people's government dealt with peasants, with that layer of population that was most productive, with people who created and with people who hired other people, with those who were generators of the development of the economy and culture in Serbia as the government acted, with or without a court ruling. I repeat, often without a court ruling. It is a principle that we will never again, ever again, that principle of statelessness and violence that prevailed during that period in this legal, or dictatorial system. As for your comment on the Kosovo provision, I fully agree with your amendment and accept it, it is better than the text of the law. You asked the question, how are we going to protect our property more easily if it's churchly than we're going to protect it if it's state-owned? There is quite a simple answer, that authority currently in Kosovo will be considered by the international community as a universal superintendent, as a legal follower of the Serbian state, and is now considered as such. If something belongs to the Serbian state, they can easily declare that the government that is now in Kosovo is in fact a universal facilitator and property belonging to the Serbian state. When, on the other hand, this property is owned by a church, it is private property, which has nothing to do with the current government in Kosovo, or any other property in Kosovo. On that basis, we can protect that property from the Strasbourg court in the worst case scenario, if we don't find another solution to that property. That is why we believe it is necessary for this law to be adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26510	Thank you, here you go, replica, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Caton said that age brings debauchery, and I didn't expect the minister of this age to twist my words to the extent that this is bordered by debauchery. I didn't say the church didn't need money. And I contribute to the church money. I'm putting money on the icon. I said she didn't need the money based on the return of the property. Let's get this straight. I don't get into who in Serbia needs money, who doesn't need money, who doesn't need our authority, what you're throwing at us without any basis, meddling in whether a company needs money, whether a man needs money. Don't scare the citizens of Serbia with the power of the SRS because I didn't say it or think it. I'm just saying, in this business, in the business that will follow by the application of this law, there's no need to provide for a payment to the church for that property that can't be returned. It can't be returned, it can't, because that cash payment is from the poor woman in the budget, it's not from your pocket, Mr. Minister, it's not from that Greek you promised the hotel months ago. It's from the poor girl. You're engaged here in a debate about the Constitution. You who are a professor at law school give yourself the right to point out here that the Constitution is not right and that you are therefore passing laws that do not comply with the Constitution. You're here to convince me that the right to use doesn't exist anywhere in the world, exists with us in the Constitution, members of 60 and 61. Just to read to Mr. Minister - the natural resources and good in general use, as well as the general interest and city building land in state property or social property. Some goods in general use may be privately owned under the conditions laid down by law, but each country does so. On the good of general interest and on city building land, under the conditions laid down by law, you can acquire the right to use, or you might want to sell a river to someone. Since something can't be given for permanent use, you might sell the river, take out a man's sand, catch a fish. You can't permanently use something to give, but everything has to be owned. If the state owns it, and it's not a business entity, who's going to use the river, who's going to use the natural resources if they're state property. Or you'll bring in like those Canadians, explore where there's gold, give them a concession, pick up the gold, pick up the nickel, and you finish the job. You'll be forgotten in a year when you stop being a minister, you don't care. I'd like to talk here to the ministers whose policy is the meaning of life, who's going to sit in this room for another five, ten or 15 years, on the left or right, at the bottom or front lines, to answer for their actions, for what they're doing. By the way, I don't understand how it can be for the Ministry of Economic Relations to talk about the laws that apply in our country. Why didn't someone else do it, why didn't some other ministry do this law? And that in 45 years, if you'd shown up at some choir of people then and if you'd said what you're saying right now, I would have accepted. (President): Please, time. And now, 60 years after that, you're saying that the government wasn't a people's government, it's from a very large historical distance. They dragged economic development until war many industrialists for themselves, Mr. Minister, the people went naked and barefoot, all the factories that worked in Serbia worked for capitalists, for industrialists. Many of them cooperated with the occupier and you know it very well. You are now predicting the freezing of Ratko Mladic's assets because you are chasing him around the country, and you are telling me that the injustice was taken away by a judicial decision of some property. I agree, it's an injustice. And justice is to restrict Ratko Mladic's right to dispose of property because it is sought by The Hague tribunal. Then someone will say in 20 years, that Minister Parivodić worked past the people. It's not the people's government. How you justify your moves that are very much like what was done many years before you. You're just forgetting what you're doing in Serbia, so you wrote there that he's limited to the right to have action, securities of value, stakes in other legal persons, and he has one TV and one radio, that EI Nis while there was. You generals are now the poorest people in Serbia, with the lowest salary. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, I thought we'd talk about the law, and you've gotten into some political controversy and, unfortunately, the controversy over whether or not we're good at the Constitution. From the point of view of your legal views, you attack the current constitution. Mr. Minister, I could prove to you that this is a crime. A citizen passes a red light at a traffic light, so a policeman is found to take at least two thousand dinars from him. If he's had a little more drink, I'm not saying it's because I hear you've been to some opening, if he's had a drink, he can go to jail. And you here ignore the Constitution, claim that the Constitution is no good to us, repeat the the thesis that the Constitution is too tight for your wishes and for your reform laws. Perhaps this people are inadequate to you too. But you know, when you ask a question, an individual or a people, there's always justice on the side of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26512	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. We certainly stick to the rules that the speaker is full of immunity, so both ministers and MPs, and in understanding the satisfaction of the highest laws, but of course it is not an attempt to break them, but merely a statement about it. Arsen Kurjački first answered as an authorised representative, please, and then Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26513	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, has finally come to the agenda what was promised before 2000, and has now come with the will and courage of this government, the law on the return or restitution of the property of churches and religious communities. All the property of churches and religious communities in the most part was taken away by the Agrarian Reform Act in 45 and later by the Nationalisation Act in 58. Then it was taken away from churches, religious communities, religious duties, monasteries, religious institutions, all completely taken away, lots of things, and the most agricultural land and forests, the famous one over 10 hectares, then building land, residential and business buildings, moving things from cultural, historical or artistic significance. Thousands of church and monastery properties were taken away and large, then famous, agrarian fund was made of it. It has to be said and should be underlined, although it is known, it has been taken away without compensation and until today it is not compensated or paid. When something is taken away, then it starts to think, when time passes, and about getting back. Otherwise you can't say, when something is taken away, it comes back. We can burn ourselves in terms here, but what is taken away has to go back to the honest world. What are the basic principles of this law? The starting principle, first and foremost, is respect for property rights, which is something that is in the modern world of alpha and omega of everything, and that also implies the right to vomit violently, unjustly and unfoundedly seized property. It can be tried here to minimise the adoption of this law, courage and readiness, but this government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, has first begun to correct historical injustices. A long time ago, there was a promise before 2000 that the injustices would be corrected, several governments had passed, not to mention the famous confusion, when this assembly voted in 1992, and then the president formally did not sign. So, all of these were games before and after, this government had the courage to bring before you the MPs, before the citizens of Serbia, with a concrete proposal for the return of property. As early as 2005 in June, therefore, last year, we came out with the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets and it was said in article 10 that the return of property to churches and religious communities would be regulated by a special law. Then we listened to similar demagogue stories about how it is now just throwing dust into the eyes, how it's distracting the public, who recognizes it, how it's just buying time for this government. So this is a confirmation for all those "unbelievable Tom" who were at the time challenging and simply, we of the DSS by this law are telling everyone to see now who's holding the given word and that now you know who's allowed to look you in the eye. The DSS came out first after 60 years with a law like this and wants to correct historical injustice. Why should the churches return property to a very special law? For the simple reason that property, he said in the opening statement, Mr. Minister, the easiest and fastest can be returned. It's mostly state-owned property or still social property. They're more or less in a state they've been in before. Then, it's a small financial cost for the state, no matter what it's trying to throw out now, because it's the basic definition of this law that property is returned in natural form. So there's no burden on citizens or businesses. Third, there's an extremely good church record. Churches and religious communities are good hosts. They kept the deed, kept the documentation and very easily, that is, when compared to that property that was taken away from the citizens, they will be able to identify and start the return process. Of course, why is it important to return the property? The one who doesn't have an economic base can't work. We are interested, at least to those in this government, in allowing churches to function, primarily their spiritual mission and, of course, humanitarian, educational and cultural function. It seems a little unreal right now, but on one occasion, I'm going to show how the church used to act on all these principles. So, at the time of the communist regime, there was a flossula, which was like a joke, and in fact it was very perfiduously placed, so that the people would refuse the church. It was a flossula called "hodge and Pope's Greatest Thieves." It was very funny to whoever wanted to laugh. We never laughed at it, because the one who was economically exhausted, the one who was existentially threatened, which is our clergy, they had to charge their services, they had to, as it is seen in my neighborhood when the holy guide was seen, to see what was underneath the plate. How was it before you took away this property? I'll give you an example from the municipality of Srbobran, where I come from. It's a small municipality in central Back, about 20,000 inhabitants. By World War II, there was also a Roman Catholic, 1,500 catastrian acres of Chernozem. Who knows little about agriculture and pedology knows it's the most fertile country in Europe. There were 12 business and residential buildings, four parishes with clergy, with churchmen, with deities. One developed church municipality, with an economically strong background, and all obtained by legions, by employability, and by what is most bright in the tradition of the Serbian people. Every priest had, they call it a session, 20 catastrian mornings of the country, and he was a gentleman in the right sense of the word. He didn't have to watch what he'd get under the plate, everything was free. Then the popes could not be baptized as "hodge and popes of the greatest thieves", because they were gentlemen, they had an economic background, they had their own incomes and they could do their spiritual work, which they had defined themselves for. The second church mission, except for the spiritual one, was then in the Serbian national cuisine. Over 200 meals were prepared every day for the poor. That's how they took care of the poor girl. Permanent aid was given for church holidays, for ever more important dates. The church had this humanitarian dimension because it had the possibility of doing so. It was helped by schools, students, cultural and sports associations. These were constant activities. Gift students of Serbian nationality in Vienna, in Pesta, have been scholarshipd. That is how the Serb national being was preserved in Austria's then. It's the church that did it, thanks to the economic strength it had. In my family he was the first doctor to study in Switzerland about the cost of church all the time. What's the situation today? Today we have two priests, one church boy, only by which the blasphemers and none of the property. There is one president of the municipality in Serbia who is a prominent DSS official. Catastrophically defeated in the second round of his opponent, I'm not going to name which party, so I don't cause replication. His program, among other things, was that he would advocate the return of church property. He disastrously defeated the rivals with votes and Serbs and Hungarians, because they understood the message and supported that the property had to be returned to the churches. As soon as he got on duty, he immediately returned five bars to use, since he can't go back like this. He received support in both the congregation and the public. So he had a list of support for all those who believe that injustice must be corrected. It's just one example. From what he defeated, he had no support, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26514	Excuse me, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26515	Yeah. What are the basic principles on which this law is based? As I said, it is the right of property, natural and inalienable law, which means that no one can be taken away from property without a valid legal basis and without just compensation. Then, the second basic principle is equal treatment. It is clear that all churches and religious communities have equal treatment in their rights to regain their property. So it doesn't matter if they're traditional or non-traditional, they all have to have equal rights, because they're probably, more or less, everybody gets killed. It is also a basic principle in this law and legal certainty, protection of the rights of the so-called the third lifesavers. What does that mean? This means that we will not replace one injustice with another, we will not make new revolutionary campaigns and methods. All those who have legally come to the property that once belonged to churches, they can be sure that they will retain that property, but the state will defile the churches. That's the difference in concept. The state must depriving those who have lost property, which cannot return, or protect the rights of these third persons. What are the parts of the law? Like any law, of course, he has basic provisions, where it's precisely indicated that this is a special law. This means that it regulates only this basic direct matter, and everything else regarding this legal traffic and operation is regulated primarily by the General Administrative Procedure Act. It's true who are the bearers of rights and obligations. There are no ambiguous definitions. They have the right to churches and religious communities, i.e. their legal followers, and the obligation is primarily in the state, which is the primary and ultimate obligor. Of course, those who have so far been property users, companies or other legal entities, they are direct bonds. It is primarily thought of those who have not paid for this property and who have used other people's property illegally for 60 years. It is now painful knowledge for many who use other people's property, but justice is slow and reaching, it must be reconciled with having to return to others. Then, we have a decree on the items of return. I've already said it's mostly real estate, land, woods. The part that refers to the way the property was returned, the part that was a little bit flimsy here, but in the law it's very clear that it's the basic definition that everything is coming back in natural form. Of course, there's an estimate of the money part, but that money part is just like a college alternative, where it's not possible. Therefore, government bonds will be issued on the bearer. Then it is clearly indicated that the right to compensation for the non-use of property is not recognised. So in 60 years, churches can't ask for lost profit or any other income on that basis. Simply, the value will be determined according to its value at the time of the first-degree solution, and according to the state at the time of confiscation. Which are exceptions, the law predicted that, too. So this government takes care of the general interest. In the previous public debate, too, it was possible that this government would also be clearing the state, favouring churches at the expense of economy, citizens and so on. So, demagogy certainly won't be the end of it, but the provisions of the law are clear, and there it is said -- that it will not be returned to that property if this return violates the economic, technological sustainability and functioning of some economic operators. If this return of property will cause some enormous losses, the dismissal of a large number of employees, the inability to continue economic activity and so on, will not return. Of course, this must be taken into account not to go blind automatically with return, but to treat each request in particular. It has to be said that those assets that current customers are renting to someone else, that doesn't fall under it. If it does not serve them to make and earn for themselves and their families, but to rent, but not to rent others, it must return to others. Therefore, it is envisaged that, in the same way as a painless transition, a lease contract that should be used to solve churches and old users is allowed to leave one period of time for old users to adjust their business to certain new conditions, because they remain without part of the property. But it's armed, that time period can't be longer than two years. It is assumed that two years is enough for every serious employer to transfer his activity and continue to work. A procedure for the exercise of rights has been defined. A restitution directorate is being formed, a special organisation that is being removed from the government and is responsible and authorised to resolve this whole process that will take many years. This provides for a way of working on how to apply, deadlines. It is handed down by this law that the deadline for submission of the application should be until 30 September 2008. So there's plenty of time to find acts and papers, traces, to formulate the request and to submit. The documentation which must be in the requests is prescribed. There's an institute that's very important, and that's an obligation to provide evidence. That means we can't falsify that we want something back, and basically we can't argue, we can't stall and we can't make it impossible for us to return. So when the directorate gets a request and doesn't have enough elements to initiate the procedure, she's bound to be old enough to provide the necessary evidence. If a business operator knowingly obstructs things, does not provide specific documentation, they will require that such documentation and all of these data be provided and that this process is allowed to be completed. So, it is clear that the specifics and wishes and the will of the legislator to settle things, not only are the demagogues turning around, wasting time and that nothing is happening. The Institute of Alignment Agreements is also envisaged. So it doesn't have to go to court, it doesn't have to be delayed if the former owner, i.e. the church and the religious community with the current user, can make an agreement. They will make the settlement agreement and very quickly, easily and elegantly resolve the issue. In the end, we have to say and underline what the effects of passing this law are. First and foremost, that's what we said, no matter how anyone thinks it, but it's a simple correction to historical injustice. The injustice must be corrected, which justice will say must be available at some time. Next, enabling churches and religious communities to function in their primarily spiritual mission, and then all other functions that I have already mentioned. Then, it should be said that these effects will not go to harm and will not produce costs for citizens or the economy. We can philosophically say that society, for 60 years, has used something unlawfully and has gained a lot of things, so these small costs that will be produced by this return process won't be anywhere near what was taken from previous owners. Also, the effects on the preservation of Kosovo's and Metohija's assets, there was a debate here, the minister explained very nicely and clearly what the Successors mean, what state property means. It's not said that there's social property. We still have social property, agricultural goods, combinations, which were held as social property, and the church is a land and objects. The EU, the international community does not know the Institute, or the concept of social ownership. Red property exists. It is a corporate kind of property, or kind of private property, which is in the Western world, a democratic world, a world established, sacred. We want to return this sanctuary to us, and with this sanctity we will also preserve our property the church, or people's, national property in Kosovo. Of course, at this point, in this political situation, perhaps most importantly, and this is the foreign policy effect, which means that with this law and the implementation of it, frankly, we will recommend to the international community that Serbia, headed by this government, with the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica headed by it, has a serious intention to return, return the country to democratic principles and the rule of law. When we do, and when we are truly understood, and this law will surely speed it up, then Serbia's path to the EU will be much faster and much shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26516	Thank you very much, Mr. Coward. Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, then Meko Omerovic, the authorised representative. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26517	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it is my belief that the debate on this bill does not go in the direction that is necessary, given the importance of this law. I think that the debate on this law, both by the proposings and of course by those who dispute or support this law, is moving within the limits of the debate on the time that was 60 years ago. It just seems to me that this is some sort of subsequent revenge or rematch against what happened 45, 46, or some other year. That's why I'm asking you to get back to the subject. The theme is the return of property to churches. Unfortunately, this is one of the laws of the set of laws that represents historical laws, which the SPS doesn't look favorably upon, because, as you know, history has always been written by the winners, it's just a question of who and when he thinks himself a winner. If you're talking about whether a system was democratic or not today, then I think that by the standards of the modern world, the democratic system implies parliamentary democracy or a multiparty system, it implies human rights and freedoms. I don't suppose any of you are going to tell me, despite the fact that you may have been the ones who were defeated in 1945, that the regime before 1941 was democratic. The regime of Karadjordjevic, who introduced the 6-ianuar dictatorship, Obnavu, who arrested people and among other things who bested every nine Albanian child, as well as Josip Broz Tito. If we're going to correct historical injustices, then we should go deep into history. I don't think it's possible to correct wrongs, but to do other wrongs. In this regard, I would ask Mr. Minister and everyone else not to enter into political qualifications for a certain period, but to deal with this topic. The SPS, as heir to the Communist Union, is for the return of property to churches. The SPS was the first of all of you sitting here to correct historical injustices. We are the first, at a time when this assembly has 196 SPS MPs of 250, please remember that number because no one will ever repeat that result, so at a time when we had an absolute majority and at a time when none of us asked for it, we passed a law to bring back the country that was taken away after 1945. Further, build at least a tenth of the churches that were built at the time of the SPS government, and then we can discuss who will correct historical injustices. The SPS advocates correcting historical injustices, but on the other hand we also warn you that certain historical injustices cannot be corrected in such a way as not to harm the moment in which Serbia lives. So we are to have the SPC return to property, it's undeniable, that law we passed and it seems to me in 1992. The president of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic returned the law to parliament, estimating it as unconstitutional because it did not mention other churches and religious communities. To be honest, the problem has always been just that, and no one has mentioned it here today or here and I ask you to be honest with me when you talk about it. The basic problem with the return of property to churches, I ask you to publicly tell the citizens of Serbia, is that you should return the land, buildings and property to the Catholic Church, the Evangelist Church, etc., which made up a huge part of the territory of Vojvodina. So what do you think you've just now remembered is that you need to return the property to the church. That's what we talked about as SPS leadership long ago with the top of the SPC. Do not boast too much about this law because you will return property to the Evangelist Church, which was the German church, which killed Serbian citizens from 1941 to 1945. Yes, Prince Eugene's division is from these parts. Minister Radulovic, who I spoke to yesterday on the phone, told me that, after the SPC, the Evangelist Church has the right to most of this property to return. I suggest you bring back 400,000 Germans who were expelled by Partisans after 1945. Maybe it's also according to European standards. So the Catholic Church, when the Ustashas were moving to slaughter Serbs, before that of course preceded a religious ritual, when Catholic priests were baptizing and crossing Serbs into Catholics, it was not in accordance with basic human rights, with international codes, and I can't help but say this opportunity, evaluate me and evaluate me however you want. I think many of the laws that are passed here will be misused to erase the behavior of some people, an organization from 1941 to 1945. You can do anything, but you can't declare someone who was on the opposite side the one who helped this country defend itself against the Germans. You're not going to tell me that 400,000 Germans in Vojvodina were on the Serbian side. They were rare individuals. After all, if you return 400,000 Germans, I have also asked the minister at the parliamentary group SPS, this law lacks an assessment and a clear figure which is the property that is returning, how many countries, how many forests must be returned to the Catholic Church – as you know, Vojvodina has long not belonged to Serbia, Vojvodina has long had the predominance of the Catholic Church – and within the Catholic Church of many other religious communities or churches, as they are called today, as the Evangelical Church etc. And it's a really big question today whether laws like this have to be passed. The historical right also implies the right to lose those rights. The loss of these rights is defined among other things by the behaviour of certain individuals and institutions during certain important social events. If the property has been confiscated by individuals or the nationalized property of churches that helped the Ustasha movement, Hitler, it is not likely that they have a historical right to rehabilitation by returning the property. Then they have the right to rehab and those who were practically blessed when they were moving into all these raids. So, to be completely open and precise, evaluate me however you want, that's my personal attitude, that's not even an SPS, that's my personal belief, that the Catholic Church, the Evangelical Church and others don't need to be returned to property. Why? Because they lost that property in 1945. It may seem nationalistic, but it's not, it's in line with national and state interests. Of course, this law is also passed because of the Serbian Church in Kosovo and Metohija. You just paid a little attention to that in your explanation. (President: And the other 10 minutes, right? Yes. A little attention is devoted to that. Otherwise, as already said here, we should try, of course, to reach our historical rights in Kosovo and Metohija through the property. Now, on this particular case, Minister, you will see how respected that principle is in international law. I wonder if the Kosovo government, as it is now called, or as this interim administrator, UNMIK chief Petersen, is just waiting for the "Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia" to return practically to the SPC country. It will disappear as a map tower if Kosovo is declared an independent state. Yesterday, there was a Serbian church in Podujevo, one of many. It means I'm not spreading the subject any further. It is not disputed, we support this idea, we support that the SPC return to property, we support it to return to all churches and religious communities that have not lost this right by cooperating with the occupier. It is true that there are many examples that, after 45, many have been wronged, but there are also many examples where it was a reflection of sanctions and social justice against those who acted differently than it was necessary at the time of Serbia's war. Such injustices cannot be corrected, because it will verify the principle that after 50 years anyone can pass a historical law and say that something has been a mistake, and that this is how everything that is not being verified anywhere in the world is verified. I don't know if there's a country in the world where one head of a political party can say that Kosovo should be independent without being in jail tomorrow. I don't know about such a country. Especially because I'm upset about this subject being the most talked about by those who rode the priestes after 45. Don't lecture the SPS, because since 1990, since this party exists, we've been trying to get SPC the place it deserves in the Serbian people. Every nation has several fundamental values. One of these fundamental values is faith. But the basic thing of a nation should be faith in its own people. We don't have faith in our own people, and when we don't have faith in our own people, we don't even have faith in our own church. When so, at least say, if all political parties have the same attitude towards the SPC, then SPC opinions on important social issues must also be respected. Many parties, not counting on the DSS that I know has good relations with the SPC, are up towards the church according to which they were communists in 45, and look back a little. After all, I'm not sure that after certain revolutionary events, the SPC wouldn't have gone the way it did after 45 years that it accidentally made a different point. After a famous speech at the funeral of Zoran Djindjic, he was barely able to get his head out. I just insist that when we talk about this topic, we don't bring unnecessary divisions between us again. There's no need for that. What was there was. Historical injustices can only be corrected if some new injustices do not seem to be done. Of course, I absolutely support that attitude so that the property of the natural persons, which has been acquired in this way, is not subject to this law. We will face the same problem during another much more significant and important part, because, according to many estimates and data that exist, the property of churches and religious communities is only a small part of the total property that was seized after 1945. But we need to draw one conclusion from all of this. The conclusion is that the right to property is sacred, that human rights and freedoms are sacred. And not to measure who's in power, who's in a position to take something away from someone, and the other in a position to take something away from him. There have been many such examples since October 5th. We simply need to build such a system of values and such a state, where people will have the security to achieve human rights and freedoms, property, political rights and everything else. We will, as an SPS, discuss this law at our session of the Executive Board. Once again, I say that we are in favour of restoring the assets of the SPC and other churches and religious communities that have not dirtyed our hands in the events from 41 to 45. And we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take into account the problem of property and size and property of the Catholic Church, the Evangelical Church and everything else in Vojvodina, not to get into a situation where this law causes a lot of problems in everyday life in Vojvodina. The national structure of the Vojvodina today is much different than before 1941, you know it, but by the will of the Serbs. The national structure of Vojvodina reflects the tragedy of Serbs, as 400,000 Germans left Vojvodina because they achieved genocide over Serbs in World War II, and several hundred thousand Serbs moved to Vojvodina in the colonisation process and in the latest wars of 90-2000, Serbs who had lost their homes and whose Vojvodina became some new house. That's why it's not possible to correct historical injustices like that, and that's why it comes to the enthusiasm of those who have been victims of not historical injustices, but of individual acts of violence, crime, genocide, which, unfortunately, we've been exposed to all these years, for decades. In the end, the church certainly has its place, that the church should not return only when campaigns are pre-election. I think the churches of the Serbian Orthodox are filled with those who have realized that they should go to church only when it has become politically similar or modern, those who have seen the patriarch more times than they have crossed in life, those who use white candles, and as Orthodox are. So you have enough of those who think it's enough to get into church or cross over and be baptized. Being baptized in our people and in our language does not just mean being a believer of the SPC or believing in God, in Jesus. Being baptized in some way was always meant to be a normal man. I do not believe that many who were baptized after October 5 and who were baptized politically were then baptized. And so I ask you that those who think well of each other before they cross over to make no mistake by hand, which side and where to start and where to end, not to give lessons to the SPS, because, at least as far as we're concerned, a huge part of our members, members of the leadership, are those who belong to the SPC, other churches and religious communities, of course, depend on national commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26518	I'm sorry, Mr. Omerovic, I mean, I would have stopped the speaker if he hadn't said exactly that. So it doesn't mean being baptized just to be baptized, not in the sense that it's not normal people who aren't baptized, but in that peorative meaning, both words and other words, so I immediately started to react, but I heard the whole sentence. Minister Parivodic first called, then Meso Omerovic and Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26519	With respect, I listened to Mr. Dacic, and I stress with respect, because he said the key words. The right of property is sacred and human rights must be respected. It confirms that there really has been a fundamental evolution in the concepts, which we really really support, and thank you very much for that sentence. There are two or three things I'd like to point out. When it comes to how much of this property is to be returned, the calculations are that it amounts to about 3.5% of the total assets confiscated, or nationalised in that period, about 3.5%, so it's not some very significant number. One thing for me is the subject of controversy, and that's the question, we can't selectively return property to some churches and religious communities and not return it to others. Still, at a time when Mr. Milosevic was president, it was precisely such a law that was returned as anti-constitutional, and he would, and now the same constitution, have been counter-constitutional. The bottom line is, you're talking about the notion of historical rights and the loss of historical rights. Losing the right means someone's been confiscated for certain crimes and misdemeanors he committed. Confiscation can only affect individuals, only criminals. She can't hit an organization, and at least she can't hit the religious community, the church, because that church existed long before the crime happened and there will be much after that crime. That is why it is quite unacceptable to talk about the loss of historical rights of legal persons, especially religious communities, because it is always a crime that individuals and confiscation can only be exposed to individuals and no one else. That's why I can't support a selective restitution. Also, if we were to do something that would be against the constitution, to return selectively to certain religious communities, and not to return others, then the Croats could, say, declare that the SPC is a criminal church on their territory. So the Macedonians, as they don't like SPC now, and they could declare our church's property just as much as some, if we had lost our historical right, so they could. This opens up a complicated round of actions and reactions that would definitely not contribute to harmony in either our country or the region. That's why I couldn't accept that comment. But once again, I'm really glad to hear that property rights and human rights must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26520	Thank you, Mr. Parisian. The word is from MP Meko Omerovic, authorised representative and Nikola Novakovic. Once again, it's already been before, I respect the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26521	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are witnessing a debate over this law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not cease to surprise us and confuse us even more. Namely, there seems to be a reconstruction in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so a law that tells us about the return of property to churches and religious communities defends the minister of economic relations with abroad. Unfortunately, all of our relations with this foreign country, which we most often seek, is the EU, and in particular it confuses the fact and the possibility of an explanation that has been tried by the proposing, that this law is passed mainly because of property in Kosovo and Metohija. Is this sending one bad message to all our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija that our southern province is now in some way already treated by this government of the Republic of Serbia as abroad? There are a lot of misunderstandings, and especially we don't know, Mr. President, which is a committee, I'd like you to give me an answer if you can get out of place, authorized and competent for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26522	Of course I can, the Privatisation Committee has been authorised, the MP will speak after that, and the law is an emergency procedure, and therefore it is not necessary for the Committee to take an opinion when MPs, and the MPs, whether they think they belong to a position or opposition, are MPs, when they accept a session to get something on the agenda, then be treated according to the Rules of Procedure. So it's not necessarily an opinion. And the board of directors will speak later. Thank you, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26523	I thank you too, Mr. President. So you've confirmed my thesis on confusion and surprise by the government. It's not the minister who's supposed to defend, it's the minister of economic relations with abroad, and it's not the parent board in the Assembly, the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, but it's the Privatisation Committee. Really, my personal wonder is never over.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26524	Mr. Omerovic, I don't want to disturb your exposure, just so there's no confusion, the board is elected as competent under the law, not as to who will explain themselves in front of the government. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26525	Thank you for the clarification. So, as the National Assembly and its MPs, in May 2005, let me remind you, we passed the Law on the Application and Recording of Disposal of Assets, in the process of which we provided for the duration of this law by 30 June 2006. The law obliges the state to regulate the new special law rules regarding the very act of return of property, both for churches and religious communities, and for all other natural persons whose property was taken apart from their will and without fair compensation. The government has now referred the draft law, which is on the agenda today, on the return, or restitution of property to churches and religious communities, with a proposal to adopt the law by an emergency procedure, and for the sake of reason, the prevention of adverse consequences that may arise in the matter of seized property to churches and religious communities in Kosovo and Metohija, in light of the current political situation in our southern province. The Serbian government believes that in the event of a negative outcome of the negotiations in Vienna, any more serious chance, as we could hear, of the damaged churches and religious communities to recover their property, which could particularly injure the right of the SPC, which had a large property in the territory of the province of Kosovo and Metohija, which was timely nationalised. Article 36 in the draft law should be that protection mechanism, at least so said the legislator. Whether it is possible at all now, I am not sure that it is possible, and I would like, as I hope, all MPs of the Serbian Parliament that it is actually possible to do so. Churches and religious communities must be returned, and we agree for two reasons. The first reason is justice, because everything that's been taken must be returned. The minister said that in his opening statement. The second reason is for the churches and religious communities to be returned to their property, and this is where they are thought of buildings and land, so that they can operate on their own and that the principle of separation of the church from the state is consistently realized, especially when we of the SDP insisted a few dozen days ago, when the Law on Churches and Religious Communities was on the agenda. With the financial independence of churches and religious communities, budget donations would be reduced to protecting only what can be considered to be the protection and preservation of cultural, or historical heritage in the most important sense. However, from the bill of this law, which today lies before you, as well as before us, you can't see who, when the church returns, Mr. Minister, this property, within the same church, will be owned by the property. Before the war, we know, they were church municipalities and parishioners. I think it will now, because it says so, for example, in the Constitution of the SPC, and it should have been said in the very text of the law. I can't see it's accurate enough. Also, for reasons of justice and protection of private property, that is to say, protection of human rights, which you mentioned shortly by reporting for the word, the seized property must also be returned to the citizens. If the idea of material equality turns out to be impossible, because man, unfortunately, we have seen, is not an ideal being, if there must be market capitalist laws, which are cruel, then we have to go back to where we stopped and violently interrupted that process and restitution of the taken property. This is rightly indicated by the League for the Protection of Private Property and Human Rights. In their protest, they said the government did not show willingness to face the need for a fundamental, or comprehensive protection of private ownership, which is one of the key problems of transition in Serbia. We could read these days that the representatives of the Restitution Network were also at the headquarters of the European Parliament and the European Commission in Brussels, where they met the chairperson of the European Parliament's Committee for Petitions and handed him a petition on the need for natural restitution of the taken property in Serbia and the importance of restitution in the former communist states that are today EU members. I will remind you once again of this occasion, and we have spoken several times about the models of Slovenia that have become a full member, that Slovenia has passed such a similar law several years ago and when you ask them how the law is implemented, they say it is being implemented with a lot of difficulty. It cannot be otherwise, because the return process cannot go without problems and new traumas and original owners and later owners. But such a law must be passed, Serbia must enter into the process and start the process of returning the seized property. Today, I would take the opportunity here, Mr. Minister, to draw attention to the letter from the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia-Montenegro, which are all parliamentary groups, thanks to the fact that the President of the Assembly, who received the letter, sent it neatly to all MP groups yesterday, in which they are calling for the amendment to extend to the period from 6 April 1941 to 45, when the authorities appointed and dependent on the occupiers were taken away from their property. They said in a letter that after the war, a regulation was introduced to undo such an act to any earlier state, but the return was not done automatically, but at the request of previous owners. Some of the Jewish municipalities and organizations did not ask for this, for there were unfortunately no surviving Jews in many places, and the alliance did not have any data on the property of all the municipalities. I ask you therefore, Mr. Minister, with due care to consider this request, as the committee responsible may also submit, colleague Nikola, a similar amendment, so that it may become an integral part of the bill. I think that in that way, as MPs and as the most legislative body, we will make a correction, if at all possible, of this kind of injustice. I'd just like so much for the first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26526	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26527	I thank Mr. Omerovic for his constructive remarks. As far as the Human Rights League is concerned, I'm in touch with them and we're thinking the same way, so there's no discrepancies. Natural restitution, natural restitution is the basic method of restitution and under this law, and so will the general law on restitution and nothing is disputed. As far as Slovenian experience is concerned, we know what the Slovenian experience is and the Slovenians have helped us write some versions of the law, so we are still in touch with them and specifically with those people who worked on that job. As far as this date is concerned, I know the problem. We've been thinking about it. The main issue is that Vojvodina was well occupied by Hungarians, therefore, there were territories that were not at all controlled by the Serbian state, which had been occupied and with which the Serbian state had no legal continuity, so that in fact they would impose a obligation on me to the Serbian taxpayer, de facto across the state, to pay for crimes committed by the foreign occupation force, and we have a problem with that. Also, I know of this law on the non-essentialness of the legal rules of 1946, and he left a period of one year for the subsequent court ruling to resolve the issue. Anyway, we'll still think about it. Thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26528	Thank you, Mr. Parisian. Here you go, Mr. Novakovic, and I'm glad we're back in the law field, not the campaign, because this law was proposed by the government, at the invitation of the Parliament through its president, so you accepted that he be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26529	Thank you, Mr. President. He's here, and I've lost all hope. He's here and he's perfect. I always like to say it's beautiful. The law is beautiful, but this one is perfect, this is one law that regulates two substances.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26530	Excuse me, Mr. Novakovic, member of 104th Respect of the Parliament's dignity. The congregation does not suffer perfection, does not suffer this kind of enthusiasm, do not be angry. The laws are valid, but they're not perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26531	It's a matter of taste and I don't want to discuss it, of course I'm kidding. The courage was the lack of this government, it's gone. The property has no nationality, private property does not suffer any ideology, and I think the excellent step was to refuse to sign the first of that return proposal in 92, because this regulation was rightly returned to the procedure and never entered into force. Two were the basic elements. One is disrespect for the equality of churches and religious communities, and the other is disrespect for the rights that could be compromised in the application of that law. I think it's something like that, but it's not that important. Unfortunately for me, and unfortunately, anything I could still say in this euphoric state, said my dear friend Arsen Kuryacki of the small Carigrad, and that example of the small town municipality of Srbobran can be copied and transferred to all of Serbia, and so I hope, in every municipality and every church municipality, no matter who's there today, who's going to be there today, who's going to be, etc. The essence of this law's message is not property-legal character, it's much stronger and it's above it. It is fully within the domain of the highest upgrade, if we are to respect the division of the base and the upgrade, it is a change of mind where such a law and the next one will, of course, inevitably cause in the minds of Serbian citizens, force them to provoke themselves and finally clear up with the pain that follows us. As president of the Privatisation Committee, I meet her daily, it is a pain called Bolshevism. I don't tie her to any of my colleagues from the SRS or the SPS. I don't think that's it. So that's a message that, in addition to practicality, this law bears and is too much for all citizens of Serbia. That's why you shouldn't doubt the day of the vote, but adopt it with a full heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26532	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I apologize for the silly atmosphere, but yesterday we were discussing a law here that protects the right to intellectual property, so I had to remind myself, as Mr. Kurjački knows, on the basis of which recommendations this return was made, so I might be in a position to sue for intellectual property, you know, so let's get that right back. I'm kidding. There are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives for the discussion, and I would like to inform you that so far, applications for a word with the order of MPs have been shared by the following parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSSi SPS. In order, first the People's MP Rajko Baralic and then MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm sorry, it's going in order for, against, from a smaller group to a larger group, that's the principle of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26533	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ivica Dacic, the head of our parliamentary group, has expressed our views on this. We've had a conversation with Mr. Secretary about this law, and I'm simply asking that we speak precisely about the law and that we declare whether or not we're going to vote for it, not to describe the situation. There is no time machine in history and no one can do any surgery to change a few decades of the existence of a country and what happened in that country, because it's very delicate and difficult in a place like this. Yet only two sentences, not to be consistent about what I said at the beginning. Drawn from the context in which it happened, when the property was nationalised, today may sound so, but I will tell you, since the property of church and religious communities is concerned, that 76 foster homes for children without parents were formed in Serbia after the war, that of those 76 nine were in former monasteries and Orthodox monasteries. In Belgrade, 44th and 45th, practically everything was set on fire and everything was destroyed, that Leskovac was completely destroyed from the face of the country in the latest run of German and English aviation. I also remind you that in Serbia alone, I don't know about the other parts of our former and large state, there were over 700,000 aliens, who spent four years at war. I know it's hard today to justify or speak at that level of argument that people can understand, but I want to remind you that 9,000 children from Potkozar came to the orphanages in Serbia, that the first soldier in Bosnia's Dubica stepped for the army 23 years after the country was released, because there was nothing there anymore. So, it's a very difficult story, it's a lot of big wounds, and it would be very difficult for us to talk about them in one way or another today without having all this in mind. Of course, we have in mind that one number of these procedures has been done in a way that is unworthy of man, unworthy of human dignity, his rights and his freedom and his property. I dare say that some of them may have done it with sweetness, but it was very difficult to raise the ground from the ashes and trade later its economy and its industry, what later became folk, state, whatever property we want, etc. It's already been said here that the law was in the process in 92. I remind you that the law was passed by three MPs: Vojislav Kostunica, the late Zoran Djindjic, and I think Vladan Batic, I apologize, I don't know who the third was, these two certainly. For no reason, I know this time well, no time buying, or I don't know what else, the MPs of the SPS then, 126 voted in favour, so they wouldn't be accused of being against it. I have to say, he's a Free Milosevic, and that's when he showed that he's a legalist. It is not possible, in accordance with the constitution and in accordance with this other principle, Mr. Minister, which you spoke of, Mr. Minister, it was not possible to sign the law. The fact that the Rules of Procedure were later not respected, so the law was not returned to review and pleading, I attribute to the force of the SPS, which may have thought it might not have to be. Here, I now accuse her of breaking the Rules of Procedure, her own party. It's very hard to talk here too, and to remain at the level of all the rights declared that we want to respect in our country, to not mention what Mr Dacic was talking about earlier, because it's very difficult, I remind you, the property of some religious communities and churches during World War II was direct logistics, i.e. She served for the repression and blackest possible crimes against the Serbian people and other Serbian citizens. I wouldn't elaborate that specifically, because that's not necessary, because we all know it. I want to say in one sentence, it's not just so-called. Tito's Yugoslavia took religious communities' property. King Alexander took the mosques four times as much property as Tito's power. That's what I have to say, because I've been preparing for this law. When the fugitives are scattered, they're some others, but I just want to say that I'm not Tito's lawyer here, but is it possible that something he took from Tito's mosques is dishonest, and what King Alexander took is honorable? It's not. Let's figure this thing out, and let's say. Here, I don't want to waste your time, we work the fifth day in a row, we look each other in the eye here every day, we talk about important laws, and we're all a little tired. I hope that our party bodies will make a decision that will allow the SPS MPs to vote in favour of this law. I sincerely hope that's the way it's gonna be, even though I can't confirm it today. It's not simple, because there are a few questions that remain open and there are a few questions that may have certain implications that we're not aware of today, and I don't want to call the devil, because you and I know exactly what I'm talking about. In any case, I have spoken to you many times, distinguished colleagues from other parties, who exercise authority, here. You're all in election campaigns, talking about your political agenda and what you're going to do when you become power, you promised, among other things, what's on the agenda today. In that sense, I congratulate you on consistency when it comes to what you're doing in the campaign and what you started, although it's been a long time since you've established a government to realize. So let's just call it a real name, let's know what's going on. I said it wouldn't be easy for us to vote on this, it wouldn't be easy for us to say no, but I'm sure our vote will still be in favour. There's plenty of time to get to the bottom of this, but I was obliged to say a few previous sentences, to calm my conscience, and I have to say, you won't mind me, I'm addressing both current and potential SPS voters always.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26534	The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, and then another Markovic, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26535	Under this proposal, the SRS has submitted a large number of amendments, because it expresses a conceptual disagreement with the way or, to be more precise, with the view of how the vomiting will be carried out. We even filed an amendment to the title of the law. Now I wouldn't waste my time, since we're going to have 37 amendments per 15 minutes, and then we're going to explain in detail both the historical, and the legal, and constitutional, and the moral and all possible aspects of this bill. However, what I must, on behalf of the SRS, declare in the principle debate, is that there is no reason for anyone here to jump out of luck and say "he's here". Why is there no reason? For one very simple thing. First, the public needs to know that someone has entered the Assembly and the government to return their personal property and has entered to represent an interest group of those who think they should be returned to their property. It's their right and I don't dispute it. And I don't argue that they're playing kerffeks and some enthusiasms like the "prodix on" commercial, etc. But we must be aware, gentlemen of the People's MPs, that we are bound by this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you, from time to time, do not love, so you love, so you call on it, so you do not call on it, so give the primate to international acts, so the Constitution, so you are very selectively approaching the problem or the question of legality, so why don't you also say the ways in which you use something called legitimacy. I don't mind your pre-election promises, your personal feelings, your ability to take advantage of yourself. It is entirely legitimate of your right as an individual and as a MP. But I can say, and I think I have to say, it's not moral through this bill to announce some future laws that are passed out of purely personal interest, absolutely personal interests. So then there are various arguments used here, such as, say, that Laufer reported that someone in the municipality of Srbobran returned something, took care of the citizens of Srbobran, while not saying that in Srbobran "Elan" almost didn't work, some other firm was privatized, and that injustice, the one from Srbobran, does not want to correct it now, does not want to open the kitchen as it used to be, but wants to create a fountain in the center of town. Imagine the arguments for euphoria, which is the system of values. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the debate there is a question that probably shouldn't have been opened about the law that regulates, if I may say so, the issue of church property and religious communities. The question of justice, justice, the kidnapped and so on. And, unfortunately, they opened up absolutely incompetent people who know about it according to what they saw in Veljko Bulajic's films. It has to be read a little bit, to consult people who know history, who wrote, described in detail this historical period. It must be said that during the Garibaldi Revolution, when a national state was created in Italy, when revolutionaries took away the great Latins from Roman cardinals, when two-thirds of Italy was owned by the Roman Catholic Church, the people were Scandicated - kill the Pope, for thirty-five years the Pope was imprisoned in the Vatican Walls because he did not recognise human rights, democracy and his relations with the state only regulated 29 years with the Lateran Agreement, which the Pope concluded with the representatives, not even the Pope, but the Secretary of State, with the corresponding Minister of Mussolini government. There are now some stories being heard here, but this is why the SRS will specifically prepare for the 37 amendments, point to the historical context of everything that's happened and try to bring you back to the discussion, which is in some way limited by the constitutional norm you have called upon in the light of this bill. If someone thinks that by pointing out the first plan of the church and the religious community, and on that basis if they find out that they get sympathy with ordinary citizens and that this concept that you're advocating is going to be broken, then you're counting on opening a wide door to that final blow that you started a few months ago when, miraculously, from the same minister here, the Law on the Recording of Property, then that mortgage, everything that's inapplicable. I have to make my personal point, when Mr. Parivodić explains some law, I won't vote for that law for a living head. That law has nothing to do with it. I know he's unconstitutional, inapplicable, and he's not moral. It's my personal attitude and I have evidence for it. Who can support this concept? They can support members of the Crown Council. Why? You remember three years ago, when they gave some keys there to this NJKV heir, Aci Gici, he said nicely in pure Serbian -- and when will you give me my keys to my house? So they're pushing those who think they should get back to them. Who's pushing? Those who have some particular interest on the basis of the late grandfather, grandmother, or I don't know who, and those who represent him as the folks of the Dutch interest in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But all in terms of human rights of private property as sacred and miraculous, one gets commendation from the minister. Of course, private property is sacred, but the question is, what can we do and how can we correct it? In order not to make a big mistake, I will briefly publish all the data that I hope someone will accept from the majority, and if not you, then let the public know why the SRS concept is incomparably better than the concept proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. The concept proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica is contrary to the Constitution, directly opposed to the Constitution, because the status of state property is being resolved in an unconstitutional manner. What's the SRS concept? It is in accordance with the Constitution, because it allows churches and religious communities to return to them, through the transfer of the right of permanent use, property that has been taken away in the distant past and does not violate the Constitution. Under the current 95-year Act of Assets, and I must say, the democratic authorities that came after October 5th, after that light from the fire, which burned the National Assembly and the RTS, changed the law, but did not change...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26536	Please, Mr. Krasic, let's not exaggerate, the National Assembly has never burned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26537	I said the Federal Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26538	Then it's a lapus. I'm sorry to warn you. Either I heard wrong or it's a lapus. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26539	Mr. President, you, as a member of the Crown Council, should understand when it is said the Federal Assembly, the National Assembly, is referring to an object where the people's representatives sit, where in the name of the people they exercise legislative law, so there is no mistake if the Federal Assembly is said to be a National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26540	You know it's not a delegate assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26541	Because the word folk is used in a populist way, not ethnically, so I've warned you many times to keep an eye on me when you're correcting me, because I'm trying to be very precise, because I'm doing a very precise profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26542	I apologize again, I beg your pardon, but it's yours to try, and it's mine to be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26543	I believe that when it comes to the light that prevailed in Serbia after the five-eyed bulldozer of the revolution, the only light that was from the flames of the flames they set on fire, otherwise this is not commendable. Every normal is ashamed. Not to mention everything in order now. Let me just mention "Sablja", it's enough since that "Sabbe" has surpassed three Gola islands, but this was democratic, it wasn't democratic. Now let me go back to where the president interrupted me. According to the Law on Assets in the possession of the Republic, which the democratic authority did not put out of effect, but tried to amend it twice or three times, so it succeeded once, but in the sense that the greater powers of the one exercising, part of the property rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, the government, above all, I am referring to the Government and the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which probably in 70-80% of the cases of the records it keeps, is keeping records of the property, which in some way has passed from private to state property, I am getting the impression that you are mentally in favour of the Assets Act in your Republic. Under the law, local self-government had the right to use the immovable property located in the territory of local self-government in its republic and could decide on governance, use, and was available in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As it is a fine example, but it is not only in Srbobran, but also in other municipalities, so local self-government has transferred or restored the right to use the former owner and it uses the facility without any problems, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through its Property Directorate, could also tell all churches and all religious communities, so why not tell some of its general act of sublegal nature, and even individual acts, to return. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not done so, and that would be, I must admit, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic. Why is our concept better? Our concept is better because it offends neither the church nor the religious community. We will come to the debate on the amendments to that article, where you're technically returning by law, but you're putting the church and the religious community in a very awkward position that she has to lead a dispute with someone, that she's being prosecuted to get a state's, so there's an original irregularity, where she's supposed to be the new owner to carry out a transfer of property to church and religious community. One who has very little experience in the practice of how these things are done will tell you that this is impossible, but if the law is written by interns who have never been in a catastro or in a court of law, then this can not stand in law. Next, who needs to solve these questions? You suggest that this be resolved by some new directorate, and you do not define its legal position and its status at all, and you do not even define what is its jurisdiction. We don't know what her organization is, there's hardly a letter about what acts she brings, how she brings it, and for many things you declare to be competent and court. He's here, so the church has to go to court to prove that you're going to throw up after your concept of law. It's a bad concept of the law. We, with 37 amendments, have given the concept that according to the provisions of this law, churches and religious communities are entitled to the permanent use of the property that has been taken from them in the past, and if it is not possible to do so, we have accepted some other forms of restitution. But in our concept, there is no payment of any fee, there is no possibility that the church will be in conflict with the existing user or immobiliser. The procedure is far simpler, the procedure is conducted in front of a single competent authority, the Ministry of Finance, the applicant of the request, the church and the religious community, and the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, which keeps records and which should be asked on behalf of the Republic, because it has entrusted business in the so-called areas of state property. There may be a holder, but the Republic always comes back. She's, let's use your termology, the return obligation, the obligation to transfer to permanent use. This concept is far safer, this concept gives security to the Republic as a bond to both churches and religious communities. It enables this to be achieved effectively and this concept is not rude, like your concept, where you say - we passed the law and we returned it to you, and then you chase with other organs how you will literally come to the state. I haven't heard from you in these two years that the government has said -- what we've proposed is an ugly law, you've proposed all the fine laws, but it's only a problem that in collision with reality they don't have a perspective to survive, they don't. Here, I talked to you the other day. I first thought it was some kind of television coverage, because they're looking for seven or eight minutes. Later I saw it was in the middle of the diary, because the bankers are screaming at this bill of yours. They say, no matter what building permit, who's going to give the paper credit, and here you're talking about-- it's European, it's in France, Germany, England. All bankers can't wait for that. Of course, I don't argue with that, it's your opinion, you can say what you want. I accept that you're saying all sorts of things, I'm not contesting your right to say anything, nor do I want to replicate, nor do I want to convince myself. It's just sometimes we tell people -- be careful with those beautiful laws, he's here, he's great, he's the best, we've been waiting 70, 80 years. What were we waiting for? We waited for what exists in Bulajić's films to happen. What exists in Bulajić's films didn't even exist in reality, but it doesn't matter. So this is a conceptal difference. I couldn't vote for your concept because I'm not authorized to violate the Constitution. If you think that the main reason or I can say an excuse for making the law, which would obviously be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is that there is some justice, justice, which is an attitude, a private property of holiness, and I share that attitude. But if I share that view, I also do not draw the conclusion that we should discuss what the Turks and Serbs did in the Kosovo color, because the question of where we are going back is as far as we go back. There are really some things that are wrongly viewed and placed here. I think it is primarily Minister Parivodić's fault that the discussion went wrong, because at first, when he answered the second time, he presented a number of things that were not true. Of course, there is private and state property in the world and, of course, that whoever exercises property rights in the name of state property, no matter how limited it is, primarily in terms of declaration of will and authority as far as it can go, the right to use is an integral part of property rights. The right of property involves management, use and availability. The government has now been authorized, it is not true that this law depends on everything. Here, without this law, the government could give to the use of churches and religious communities all of what was taken not in 45, but 37, 34, 31, all of it could have been returned. It could have all been returned, but I think you've just forgotten one very important thing when you've accepted this concept where you think the right of property is coming back. I can get my property back if I have it. The Republic of Serbia has no right to property and cannot give something it does not have. There's one thing you've forgotten, and we told you, in the end, there may be some sympathy for your concept, but when the Constitution changes, and when it's prescribed by the Constitution, and you're obviously going with unconstitutional law. You guarantee that someone will give something they don't have, so you will say that the Republic of Serbia has the right to property. If he had the right of property, it wouldn't be called state property. You've confused something, in the desire for that third step to come – the restitution of the physical faces. I know that, and that's why you and the Democrats made a deal last time to pass that confirmation on a basis that can be borrowed from banks. It's just enough that there's a confirmation, that it's been recorded that I asked for my property back, and I'm getting a loan in the bank. It's going to be a little harder. So I object to you, you have taken a very bad example of what is in the third instance of your operation: how to get back ours or think of ours. You shouldn't have humiliated the church with this concept of law and this is how you repay it. Now someone's quoting us here the Church and Religious Communities Act, so it tells us about corporate property. You've mixed up that term, too. Someone tricked you into having a good law, and with this law, you've been wronged even more. We're going to each member to the point, because we've been putting up with the amendments everywhere, what it's supposed to look like, to discuss why you've made a mistake, and why you keep pushing, even though you're aware it's unconstitutional. In the end, let me tell you one thing. No church or religious community is opposed to what we have proposed to the amendments. Why? For one simple reason why representatives of churches and religious communities do not consider churches and religious communities to be in relation to property rights to some financial or not to know what kind of organizations. They think they should return their property, that they can use it and they're satisfied with it. They are responsible for the state taking care of religious facilities of exceptional national value. When I tell religious objects, you know that these are different objects, almost all churches and religious communities, because as soon as it exists for several centuries it's certainly a wealth, it represents our cultural and artistic treasure that the state has to take care of. Churches care, and religious communities, that the state helps preserve these assets and that cultural treasure. If you take this far away from the cultural treasure by an unconstitutional law, then the question is how will anyone fulfill their obligations, how will anyone exercise their property rights. We have 37 amendments, and we will explain by each amendment what the advantage of each of our members is to yours. Churches and religious communities receive almost identically everything you offer and by reason of the law you guarantee. Our way and method of return differs from yours, it's a great legal difference, yours is unconstitutional, ours is constitutional, yours is not fair, yours is demeaning in terms of churches and religious communities, and ours is worthy because it takes care of churches and religious communities and no rights are questioned, churches and religious communities, when it comes to property. So I invite you, you who are in power and I don't have to, I invite the citizens to take a little interest, to follow the debate when it comes to amendments, to hope you notice a qualitative difference. But I also warn that the government has planted cowardly eggs, so that some, not so much in this room, but those who support this government as interest groups, will gain their personal interests through this. Because then they would say that the state has done it in principle, and if it solves towards the churches, it will also solve for Parivodić, Niko Novakovic, probably Ace Gici, the Crown Council and these others, and I could be in that group. My family's been taken away, but I don't think it's legal to do it now and it's not in accordance with the Constitution. All possible deadlines are past, it's contrary to the principle of legal certainty. Remember, and those who brought you to power will never appreciate that you don't respect the Constitution and the laws. He'll object to you. Now they're telling you because they have an interest in you tearing this country apart as soon as possible, but they know you'll do anything, but when they find out you're only doing this for your own personal interests, another one will come out of the government, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26544	The word has a minister, and after his exposure, there will be an eight-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26545	I have to admit, I'm always inspired to sit with Mr. Krasic. This is the second time Mr Krasic has mentioned the Mortgage Act as inapplicable. I was trying to explain the content of this law to Mr. Krasic in a several-hour debate. I guess that didn't work out. That's why I'm giving his attention to today's "Politics", which has its own backdrop called real estate. That, I hope, will make you fully aware of how applicable the Mortgage Act is and how much it makes it easier for citizens to come to credit and settle their housing issues. It significantly improves the situation for acquisition, for resolving the housing issues of our citizens. It's very applicable and I ask you to read it carefully, the comment I made on it today at Politics. As for the personal interests that drive us to pass restitution laws, I have four personal interests. To make the state a decent country for me and for people in it to feel good, for the state to be fair to its citizens, for the private property in my country to be firmly respected and for the fourth of my personal interest is to have a modern economy that will allow our citizens a quality way of life. These are my four personal interests, the interests of my children, I mean Mr. Krasic and his children, and all of us here. It's a key interest, which is why we're passing restitution laws. Phase three is the restitution of physical faces. I am very pleased to say that – the restitution of individuals, many who are poor, who are poor and who will thus improve their standard of living, in a very fair and legitimate way. That's the point of phase three. And since you're commenting on my laws, I'm just going to remind you of your 1999 media law, which was very applicable, and that's why there won't be a third phase of restitution, we're going to introduce a fourth phase of restitution, and that's to get the SRS back to the media what it took away under the applicable Media Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26546	I've announced, and I have to respect the word. Of course, Mr. Krassic, have your understanding, you and the other MPs. In eight minutes, we move on. First, you will be the replica, then Milica Vojić-Markovic, Momir Markovic, Donka Banovic. It is a order of registered Members. [[After break – 16.55.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. Before we proceed in the order of the registered speakers, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and Momir Markovic, then Donka Banovic, and before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic, reported. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. Just know, I promised you'd be both polumic and funny, so I figured it out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another minister from this government who would like to give political lectures to the MPs, and I thought it was just the manner of Minister Lalovic, Minister Dinkic, Minister Velija Ilic, and it seems that some epidemic has prevailed in the ministry, so everyone will teach us what we should do and how we should behave. Minister Parivodić did not have this manner until the other day, he tried when there was an intellectual property law here, then he just tried and kept on doing so. Today, however, the MPs of the SRS are given a lecture on how to behave and to remember the MPs of the SRS Information Act. Minister, this law is one of the best laws this assembly has adopted. The only thing that didn't work was that the proceedings were conducted by misdemeanor courts, and it didn't go to regular courts. Because if there was a law today, it wouldn't be possible for Natasa Kandic to declare Mr Tomislav Nikolic a war criminal, who slaughtered half the grandmothers and old men in Antino. When it was proven to be nothing, then nothing. If the law existed and the law was in force, today Natasa Kandic would be in jail for it and she would pay for the fat fine. Look at "Time," look who's on the cover of "Time." They're not just attacking the MPs of the SRS. I don't know, I didn't read it, I just saw the front page. It couldn't, and now it can, thanks to this information law and thanks to these means of information. Yours, Minister, to propose a law, is yours to listen to the objections of the MPs to that law, it is yours to attend the vote, unless you withdraw the bill before that, and it is yours to implement the law the next day if it is passed. You, however, can also rule regulations, that the laws are passing a little bit, so that they may eventually be governed by a regulation. Thus, Minister Lalovic hurt and kidnapped the rights of wartime disabled people with blood by means of the regulation, so yesterday you had 5,000 people with disabilities in front of the government, which in a wheelchair, which on crutches, so he withdrew the regulation. By the way, he framed local self-government throughout Serbia through so-called. Passed jobs, so local self-government must issue resolutions on the termination of the right to wartime military disabled, and then wartime military disabled trees and rocks on local self-government. I'm taking the opportunity to tell military people two things. First, yesterday's regulation was withdrawn, the solutions you've received are not valid. Secondly, the regulation was written by the Serbian government and Minister Lalovic was responsible, not by the president of the municipality or by the supplier there who brings you the solution. (President: Time. I thank you. Soon everything in Serbia will clear up, I think you're the October government, Mr. Minister, in the fall you won't wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26549	Thank you. The same Article 104 also refers to admiration for the present, as well as the former laws. So as Mr. Novakovic has been told, and to you, thank you. Please, the word has been made by MP Milica Vojić-Markovic, and then by MP Momir Markovic and Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26550	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am sincerely convinced that in Serbia this law will clear itself and how it will contribute. After World War II, a newly formed communist state immediately set out to seize its citizens' assets. The impact was on her quite naturally both the SPC and the state, on many occasions and on various grounds, headed for the most brutal abduction and destruction of the assets of the SPC, which she gained over centuries of her existence. In the first of 1945, churches, monasteries, religious communities and borrowings were seized over 10 hectares of their total area of fields, gardens, orchards, vineyards, urinals and forests, leaving the discretionary right to the state to decide to leave about 30 hectares to those famous and larger monasteries. Of course, this was the discretionary right of the state only used in the part where it could limit the poverty of the true monasteries. I have to say that, let's say, here's an example of the High Deces, which was taken away by 793 acres of arable land, among those 30 left there were several hectares where the Albanians had already built houses. The robbery was continued in 1958 by the Nationalisation Act, when residential buildings, business buildings, apartments and city building land owned by the SPC were taken away. The total property, which is 70,000 hectares of land and about 1,181 buildings, has never been paid back to churches and religious communities, or to their successors, on one and another basis. This seized property was initially a very significant part of the agricultural reform and colonisation land fund. Looking back from 1945 to today, the state spent 60 years using other people's property and profiting from it. In the 1990s, with the origin of the communist regime at the head of the state, they also strengthened the voices that asked for unfairly seized property, and the property used, returned to their rightful owners, and that this was done then, today, the position of the SPC, and I can say freely both Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, would have been quite different. Why do I say that? We are starting with the fact that about one third of the total farmland in Kosovo and Metohija was in church possession. The church had a normal right of ownership, a deed to that land. Today, if that were the case and this law was passed, it would be easy to prove private property, or property, because it is a language that knows all the democratic world, the right to private property is something that is very easy and simple to prove before every court. I also have to say that all countries in transition, governed by democratic principles, have passed similar laws and taken the organisational and financial measures to recover property and reimburse former owners, including churches. The government of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, truly democratic, also began the process of returning unjustly and unfounded assets in Serbia. I must remind you that in June 2005, the assembly of this Parliament passed the Law on the Application and Recording of the Confiscated Assets, which was then said to be completely inapplicable, that it could not survive in reality and that it was more made to be declarative than to have any concrete consequences and concrete settlement of the situation. The bill of this law that is before us today is the best possible way to deny all those who were then speaking in this way. Mr. Minister announced what follows this law, this third phase, and then the fourth phase, that's what the DSS in its campaign promised its voters and what it meets in every way. This law on the registration and registration of the seized property in Article 10 also states that the issue of the return of property to churches and religious communities due to the specificity of matter will be governed by a special law and this proposal is now in front of us. What are the reasons for this law? Since it is the property that remained most often in the possession of the state, which is land, buildings, forests, churches and religious communities, the easiest thing to do is to return that property, of course, is kidnapped. Since the return will be in the so-called so-called. natural form, there won't be any major financial costs for the state. Churches and religious communities still own the deed to what was taken from them, they have documentation of what was and what would come back to them. The return of this property will improve the material status and position of the church and many religious communities, creating better conditions for their spiritual mission, cultural mission, humanitarian mission and all other missions that churches and religious communities in this country are doing. Since this is an area of express specificity, the restitution will be covered by a special law. The bill is based on traditional legal principles of property and bond law. These are, above all, the right of property as an inalienable and natural right that cannot be taken away from anyone without a valid legal basis and fair compensation. Furthermore, the principle of banning the abuse of rights, the principle of the equivalent position of participants in property relations, the principle of banning the cause of harm, but there are also other principles, such as equal treatment, that all churches and religious communities are granted the same rights and that they can exercise their legitimate rights and restore their property under the same conditions. Then, a market fee. The payment of the market fee shall guarantee that the former owners have adequate real compensation. Then, legal certainty. Several times it has been mentioned here that this law actually destroys legal certainty. That's not true. Legal certainty is the principle on which this law is based. The proposal guarantees the protection of third-party rights, which in the meantime have acquired property rights. The confiscation of that property would create new injustices, which is why solutions are proposed in the interest of both former owners and those third parties. In the end, the principle of urgency of procedure, I don't think there's any need to comment on it. The proposal specified that the object of return was taken away agricultural land, forests, forest and building land, residential and business buildings. The right to return shall have churches and religious communities as former owners or legal followers in accordance with applicable laws. The basic final debtor is the return of the state, but it may be a company or any other legal entity that, at the time of entry into force of this law, the owner of the seized property and did not pay the property at a real price. The property is intended to be returned in natural form, but it is also given the possibility to make up for cash, when it is impossible to return in that integrated form. The procedure for the exercise of rights is urgent and begins with the request of an authorised church or a religious community no later than 30 September 2008. I now come to a part that Mr Krasic several times commented as completely unclear, as a long procedure and procedure in which proceedings are not known. I've seen this as a completely clear procedure, extremely simple, consummated, exactly who's doing what. Why do I say that? Therefore, the request of the church is referred to the Directorate and it is a special organisation formed to conduct the proceedings and to decide on these claims for the return of property, payment of cash compensation or compensation and to keep documentation and records, and it would keep the government informed three months of its work. The directorate is obliged to make decisions on the application no later than six months, and for a maximum period of three months since then, the entity has to return property or cash compensation. Someone who's waited 60 years for something to win, the whole process can end in nine months. I'm not sure anyone can say it's a long time. I think it's a perfectly reasonable period. The possibility of the parties agreeing in the procedure is predicted, another concern that has been said here several times, that they will simply be paid or returned, and what if neither of them is. The parties to the procedure can agree. The law shows that Serbia has finally shown a serious intention to return to the democratic principles and principles of the rule of law, which will ultimately include it in a large family of people with the same attitudes. This law is also important for resolving the big property issue taken from the church in Kosovo and Metohija, I said already one-third of the land was owned by the SPC. It is important to adopt the law and therefore stop privatising the seized property, which could further complicate the situation. The DSS parliamentary club will vote for this law, because it represents a materialisation of the principle of legality and legitimacy, which the DSS has been pushing for since the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26551	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Understand that for those who wait 60 years and already have 80, there is much for them every day. Here, now you will hear one of the senior MPs, Mr Markovic, but not so much. The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, then by MP Donka Banovic, and by MP Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26552	I, Mr. President, will wait another few months for the SRS to take responsibility for Serbia, take power and then rule for 30 years, and then we'll see later. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is limited to property taken from churches and religious communities since 45, and we know very well that both in the prewar period and in the times of the Kingdom's property to churches and religious communities, the Orthodox Church, and how it is taken away from the ancestors of this which is now represented as the NJKV. The church in Kosovo has suffered enormous material damage from that king. However, to analyze the law a little bit and try to point out some illogicalities, some shortcomings, and if the minister is hearing and adopts amendments to the SRS, the SRS may vote in favour of this law. In Article 3rd position, the eyes of all -- under the territory of the Republic of Serbia, include the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. Why are you stressing? Resolution 1244 clearly defined what the territory of the Republic of Serbia is. The constitution also clearly defined what the territory of the Republic of Serbia is. The 1244 resolution is only those who bombed us all that time, those who tried without General Delic and his similar generals, and the leg and boot to enter Serbia, those who precisely because of this army and stopped producing STELT technology, to inform you ministers, F-117 is no longer being produced, because they have put him down in Budjanovci, so they realized that it is no longer what they were talking about. But to get back to the law. There is no need for a special member's position to say what is meant under Serbia's territory and there is nothing to say about it under Serbia's territory. Serbia's territory is clearly defined. I also have a problem with Article 6 because part of it says, returning to churches and religious communities, that is, their legal followers. Churches do not have legal followers, the religious community also exists, we are talking about recognized religious communities, we are not talking about Jehovah’s Witnesses or the Scientological Church, which belongs to the recently Vice President of the Government of Miroljub Labus, I am talking about five churches and two religious communities. Could the law be interpreted as being also the legal follower of a part of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro. Therefore, churches do not have legal followers, they are alive, they need to be returned property. Religious communities, too, are talking about recognised religious communities. However, this law that we recently passed now is all a religious community. Even Satanists can be a religious community. They interpret the Bible in a unique way. Article 8 says: "Natural persons who, in the meantime, have legal acts, acquired the right to property by legal business... "; by this law, if we adopt this law, and I think it will pass in the Assembly, these legal transactions are automatically declared illegal, which have acquired property rights. Then it just goes back to the way it was. There's one more thing, until 2000 there was a law that allowed the churches to return their property. Using that law, the congregation of Zemun brought back the building in which the Scriptures were to be found to be the birth of the Holy Mother in Zemun. After 2000, only the usurped part of a school to move out. I expect the Minister of Education to move that school out, find a suitable location, and bring the church into full possession. Anyway, we gave her her property back. We also returned the Parish home to the church in Zemun, which was usurped, using this very law. Therefore, there was a possibility of her coming back. After 2000, nothing was returned to any church or any religious community. Article 10 states that the right of property and state to property that has been seized is returned if it is in approximately the same form and condition in which it was taken before it was taken away. When the Metohija was taken away by the SPC, Metohija means a monastery property, a monastery, a monastery, it was fields, forests, pastures, today, especially after 2000, a few hundred thousand Cypriots from Albania settled there. What about the land that the Shiparis took, even though the land was taken from the churches? How are we going to implement this law in that part and return it to the Decades, return it to the Left, primarily build the Left because they burned it, and then give it back to it what belonged to it. There's one more thing that's not covered by this law that's gonna get through us, because it's already been an attempt in 2002 to get through. Some religious communities sold their property to local self-government. In 1958 or 1960, the Jewish religious community from Zemun sold the synagogue, took down church markings, and sold the building to the Zemun municipality. They tried to get it back in 2002, so when they realized it was the property of the municipality and that it was no longer a religious object, they stopped. Article 12 states: "The leaser of the property which is the subject of return has the right to, under the conditions provided for in the contract, use immovableity for his activity for a period necessary to adapt his business to changed conditions, but no longer than two years." So do you think you'll rule for two more years? I don't think you're going to be two years. You'll hardly live to see it. After all, the first salt and this government is gone. Why don't you solve the problem right now, if you're already returning the property? Why don't you regulate those relationships right now, but "and for the longest two years"? Doesn't this look like a little hoax? There's one more thing, you in this law directorate, which can be an organ of the ministry, and it doesn't have to, raise to the level of the institution, to the level of the ministry, so the directorate will decide, to assess. The Ministry can do that. The Directorate can't. In members from 17th to 28th, wherever it says "directory" has to be "ministration". The ministry is a government body, a state body, a directorate is only the auxiliary body of the ministry, which can and does not have to exist. Article 18 says, "If the return obligation is the Republic of Serbia, the compensation is paid in the bonds of the Republic of Serbia which are the subject of the stock trade. The bonds referred to in Article 1 shall be issued under conditions and within the time limits laid down in a general law governing the issues of return and compensation for the seized property. The means of reconciliation on the basis of the bonds issued are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia." That means you don't have the means to carry out this law until the end, that you'll be in charge of the state by issuing new bonds, that the state will enter into another loan to regulate these things. We've told you with the amendments that you can only return naturally, that you can return material goods, that if you can't return property that was taken away because of various conditions, then you can return other assets that the state owns, and that means a good portion of the agricultural land, because in each of those agricultural combinations you have both social and state property. I say again that the ministry must be responsible and possibly responsible if this law is implemented until the end. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Article 33 says, "The executive solution has the power of an executive document and can be based on a judicial or administrative execution". You refer this church to a litigation that can last 20-30 years. This is how you deceive the church to return something to it. Almost all the property that was seized will be under this burden right now. Decisions on the return of assets, cash compensation, i.e. compensation, shall be executed by courts, by the Ministry of Finance, if a bond fee is paid or a cash compensation is paid. In article 35, the directorate again instead of the ministry. Mr. Minister, look at the amendments to the SRS, compare the basic text of the bill, adopt the amendments, because it will greatly improve the legal project itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26553	The People's Messenger Donka Banovic, then Djordje Mamula, then Dragoljub Kojcic, has the word. And to be correct, two years has already come back to the Kuoni monastery, but you're absolutely right, unfortunately, not on the basis of the law, but on the basis of the recommendation. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26554	It's never easy to talk after a respected colleague, Markovic. It is right to say that this law is of historical importance. This law and the recently adopted Law on Churches and Religious Communities have circled the system of relations between the state and the church. There are several reasons why a special law is passed on the return of property only to churches and religious communities, but at this point. First, the property of the church is insignificant, if viewed as part of the entire seized property. It's estimated at about 3.5%. Secondly, it is mostly immovable and is in the same state it was in and when it was taken away. So the return of that property will not burden the state budget, because it will mainly be returned in physical form, and very little will be cashed in fees. While the Agrarian Reform and Colonization Act of 1945 was in preparation, against its adoption, not in general, but in relation to church property, the highest authorities of the Orthodox and Catholic Church in the post-war Yugoslavia voiced protest. In the performance of the Holy Archaeological Synod of the SPC, it is pointed out that the law is both unfair, and inhuman, and antisocial and rude sack of social justice. Furthermore, the play shows that, despite various backgrounds, church estates are not violently acquired, but won mainly by legacy, so their expropriation from a moral standpoint is unsustainable. If so, the church will be placed in the position of beggars and homeless people. The 1945 play ends with the question - is it a tendency for the church to choke and destroy in its operation? Of course, these objections did not have any chance of success. 2,897 church and monastery estates, in a total area of 172,000 hectares, of which there were 841 possessions in Serbia, of 57,000 ha, and these possessions were third in the size of the share in the education of the agricultural reform and colonisation land fund. The 58th Nationalisation Act brought church property back under attack. The SPC ran out of 1,171 buildings, which mainly served as housing for priests and their families or as a business space. In Belgrade, everything but the Patriarchy building is practically nationalised. The church ran out of major sources of income, and the priests went to tenants. That's not all, either. Big pensions and other funds went into state hands and ceased to exist. In 91st year, the Serbian Parliament passed one version of the law on the return of property to the church, but unfortunately, the law never came into force, so when we adopt this law, we will resolve the issue officially launched 15 years ago. It is a special law that will be an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which means that other relevant laws will apply to the resolution of material and legal issues not governed by this law. The right to return property has all churches and religious communities, as former owners or their successors. The taxaneous types of immovable property seized, which are the subject of return or compensation, are listed. It is about stolen agricultural land, forests, forest, building land, residential and business buildings. The return obligations are the Republic of Serbia, companies and other legal entities, which are now the owners of these assets, and the law refers to the entire territory of Serbia. It is proposed that the assets be returned in natural form in the form of the same or appropriate assets or through a market-based cash compensation. If a return in natural form is not possible, however, if the legal person proves that the former church property was acquired at market price at the time of transfer of the property rights, it remains the owner of the immovable property, and the obligation is taken over by the state, which pays the bonds the cash compensation. If the legal person did not pay the market price at the time of transfer of the property, it is necessary to restore the immovableity of the church or the religious community. Physical faces, so-called. Security holders, who have acquired the right to property over this property, are not obliged to return it, nor to pay cash compensation. The immovableity shall not return to churches if this would lead to more significant interference with the work of state authorities, public services or the sustainability of an economic operator is violated. When it comes to immovable matters of cultural, historical or artistic importance, they return to the church, or to the religious community, and if such items are an integral part of the collection of public museums and galleries, the relations between the church and the holders of these goods are arranged by a special contract. The amount of compensation shall be determined according to the value of the assets at the time of confiscation, and the methodology for determining the value shall be governed by the Restitution Directorate established by this law. The Restitution Directorate will conduct procedures and decide on claims of return of property or payment of cash compensation. If the church were returned to what was taken from it, the Kosovo and Metohija land map would be very different today. By World War II, a third of the farmland of the province was owned by the SPC, especially in the Metohija area. Meanwhile, negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status began, and until today, the status of the taken country has not been resolved. So it's high time for this issue to be resolved and therefore the DSS will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26555	The People's Messenger, George Mamula, and Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26556	And this bill of law shows that time has been mastered. The day has come when we are discussing the return of property to churches and religious communities. In this way we will fully respect the principle that the church is separate from the state. The church cannot be separated from the state and the state still retains church property. It's hypocritical. What's taken has to come back. Of course, the way it's stipulated by law. However, it should be fair to say that in the 1990s, the law on the return of property to churches and religious communities was first passed in this assembly, but that for reasons explained, it was not declared. Before that, it should be remembered that in the 1980s when the state began to invest more in the restoration of churches, worship, it was one of the greatest investments, when it came to the construction of the blasphemy, that was the Holy Temple. We know how much money was invested, how it started. In fact, the construction of the Svetosavian temple was continued, which was launched before World War II in the area reserved for the Adria and Luna Park circus in Belgrade for decades. This is a serious face-to-face with the past to be respected and to be honest when it comes to facts and to say that and how religion began to take care of the importance of man’s personality and that church and religious communities should be respected. It is a good thing that this principle debate has also brought about the agreement of all the parliamentary groups participating in this assembly that this law is necessary, and the discussion of the details will show what amendments are proposed and whether the law can be improved further. As far as it could be seen from the public debate, the only DS is against this bill, because as far as I've seen, Mr. Micunovic, president of the DS political council from his observation post, said it is scandalous that the church is returning property. So in his presentation and thinking, I saw those of that time after World War II, who saw God as competition. I thought that time had passed, however, there are today. It is very important that this law, in members explaining the return procedure, has clearly respected the basic constitutional principles and it is very important that the property that can be returned to the form that exists back in natural form, and that which has been destroyed is returned by a cash compensation. I think all churches and religious communities will accept this law. As far as I know, no church, no religious community is against this law, although I saw in the debate here that there were some who tried to speak on behalf of some churches and religious communities without authority. So the churches and religious communities have nothing against this proposal, and I think it's crucial that this law will achieve complete separation of the church from the state, because the state will finally return the church property it took.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26557	The word has the People's Messenger Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, here I was kind of the last person to be in the discussion, and it's kind of a commitment more. I think that obligation is primarily about trying to round up the experience for myself from all these discussions. Otherwise, I'm also holding on to one feeling that Mr. Mamula mentioned earlier, which is that there is a kind of unity in understanding the interest of this law, and I even think that in one general sense there is a consensus even about a large number of techniques that define and operate. However, what is important to mention, it is one of the bad experiences of our country in the 20th century, which is that two ideologies have been severely broken over our backs. And on the other hand, what I just said is good because it shows that we're coming out of an ideological division and ideological conflicts, because we or not some of the echoes of these ideological conflicts exist, whether in parties, whether in the sphere of culture, sometimes in individuals, or even in each of us sometimes, there are some echoes of it. One ideology was the one who turned all her spears and all her arrows against the church as a spiritual institution and at the same time was radical for removing private property. As the title of an Italian neorlastic film was at the time, it turns out that private property was once also a sin. However, I say, time has changed and things are very different today. In 45 C.E., when the ideology that challenged the spiritual and social significance of the church, while at the same time challenging private property, was handled with two motives by seizing church property. This motive differed from agrarian reform. We must make sure that the agrarian reform in previous periods was one reason why the property was taken away by churches and religious communities. That was one thing. And here for eminently ideological reasons, because it was thought that if, as some of the speakers said, they took away the logistics of the church communities, that it would narrow down their survival in our spiritual space. But here I'm saying, something completely different is happening, and here's the second time I've mentioned Mr. Mamul, because I thought that in my cancer of looking at the problem is the main angle that the SPC never included the theocracy. It is very interesting that the SPC, of all its predecessors, of St Simeon and of the Holy Sava, later than some of the more modern spiritual leaders of the Serbian people, such as Patriarch Georgia Brankovic, herself stood up for the separation of the spiritual from the world itself, has initiated the construction of a world state in the Serbs. So any possibility should be rejected and any shadow that would think that the SPC has any other vision and any other vision of civil society. But that's why she, as one corporate entity, must have a regulated property issue. This law is just opening up the possibility of a basis for order. What we all want and what we have defined in the 1990s, so absolutely all the participants in Serbia's political scene, because when we defined ourselves as a multi-party parliamentary political system in our country, then we had to define ourselves at the same time for all the other implications that it implies. It means civil society, which means a society in which citizens are the bearers of political will, and that is a society in which relationships are regulated through property relations in the good part of that concept. So this law brings the consequences of our fundamental determination to introduce a multi-party parliamentary democratic system and civil society into our country. It's obviously on a good path, it's being resolved. It could have been faster, of course, but we also have to take care of one more aspect of the work and the SPC and other religious communities, or churches in our country. They have one prominent social function. Here, just to tell you that in the past few months, thank God, thanks to the RTS Public Service, I've had a chance to see how in a monastery, I think it's a monastery of Gominica, that the sisterhood manifests itself to the people who are born with severe defects, with congenital essential anomalies, which in that sense are absolutely incapable of social life. So, what was even difficult for the state institutions over the decades and generally to be late for that job, it takes over the church. Also, this is the right place and the right moment to recall his reassurance of the late bishop of Sava Shumadija, thanks to whose entrepreneurship in very difficult days for our people, the Divostin monastery near Kragujevac was a haven for a large number of Serb children from Republika Srpska, i.e. from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who were left without one or both parents, as far as I know. It is therefore one of the sad episodes of our recent history, but which speaks of how much the church was not only a spiritual institution, but has kept its important traditions and its historical continuity to take over a kind of social ageing for those who simply got out of the attention of state institutions. In the end, I would ask that you allow me, in the same sense, simply to appeal to the competent institutions in Belgrade, the Belgrade authorities, to make sure that our fellow Muslim faith citizens get the right to have a cemetery where they will be buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-12-0.u26559	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask the President or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. This will also end today's work, the continuation of the session on Tuesday, 16 May, at 10.00 p.m., with the last item of the agenda, that is the 17th point -- the selection of members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. Thank you.
