ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for today's work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that MP Veroljub Stevanovic has been prevented from attending the session. One notice: a session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the Small Hall at 10:15 and the Administrative Board at 10:30 – in the third floor hall. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. Mr. Milović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Dragović, Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mirović, Mr. Mirović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Mirović, Mr. Mirović, Mr. Milović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr, Mr, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr is is is is is, Mr, Mr, Mr is is is is is is is is is is is is is is the very, Mr, Mr is the very is the very is the very is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the the the the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the very, is the the very, is the very, is the very, is the the the very, is the very, is the very, is that is the very, is that he is that he is that he is that he is that he that he is that he is that he is that he is that he is that he is the the the the the the the the the that he that he is that he is that he that he that he that he that he is that he is the You've received a report from the Finance Committee, by means of a mammal. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29395	At the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a large number of amendments. In order to better monitor all future amendments, I think it is necessary to give one principled explanation of this first amendment, where we have followed the methodology of the legislator of this law. We didn't touch the data showing the total income. We carried out only one intervention, concerning the redistribution of funds under the 2006 budget expenditure. In this way, we are trying to show what our strategic definition is when it comes to one such situation – that by means of tax sources it provides quite enough funds to finance all functions of the Republic of Serbia, functions that express the exercise of power, functions that express compliance with the obligations of the state it has towards citizens, of course, all in accordance with the law. We believe that from that virtual story about surpluses, or unscheduled revenues, or excess revenue over expenditures, we open another story -- that the state, above all, has an obligation to fulfil its duty to citizens. If the State is in a hurry with regard to certain material obligations, these material obligations should have primate, i.e. meeting these material obligations towards citizens, and not that the cessifice appears as a statistical category which is later shown as a source of funds for the settlement of certain debts to abroad and for certain epochal matters, the creation of school classrooms, the completion of certain roads. Development must be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as must social protection, as aid to the economy must be an integral part, not only of this budget, but of all the Republika Srpska budgets, for each year. In this distribution, under paragraph II-Employments, we direct a part of the expenditure, first of all, about six billion dinars, to stimulate the economy in terms of subsidies and other grants that go from the state budget to economic operators, which aim to facilitate and encourage economic growth. We count that these are normal measures, that the state is authorized to encourage the economy by these measures. The main feature of this amendment is that capital projects are moving where they belong to economic classifications and increasing funds to stimulate the economy. Of course, this principle is present in other amendments. When Mr Arsic submitted this amendment, he took care to balance all these divisions, to balance all these positions listed in Article 1 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. The basic characteristic of this amendment is the increase in the separation, i.e. increase in the allocation of funds from the budget to stimulate the economy. We think this is how economic policy should be seen. We must accept this fact that in late September, in early October and that, regardless of the adoption of this amendment, in the realisation of this budget by the end of the year maybe many positions will not be realised as we have proposed by the amendment. The increased allocation of funds for business interventions, to help the economy, regardless of whether the funds are spent in the course of this year by the end of the financial year, as dedicated funds are transferred for next year. It also prevents the accidental use of these funds, which we claim is contained in the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. With the rebalancing of this budget, we would not accept an existing situation or some projection that should legalise the existing situation, which is not in the 2006 Budget Law. It's that danger that exists. So, if the budget allocation is implemented according to the planned rebalancing ratios of this budget, then the economy will be cut off for some funds, then there will be no subsidies, and by the end of the year, they will be spent for the purposes of the government's plan. Later we'll talk about these things, or economic classifications. To begin with, I'd just say that the opposition that concerns official travel abroad, almost all organs, is too large. The funds allocated for these purposes are beyond necessary for some of the basic needs of citizens, which is also a commitment for the state - it is a primary obligation for the state, which it fulfils through this budget. If you think this amendment can't be accepted because in the next three months it's not possible to spend as much as it's planned, it's no distraction, I'm telling you, it's going to be spent on purpose and that part. What can - will be spent, and what cannot - will be transmitted in the next year. However, the purpose of the amendment is to prevent consumption that can be said to be non-purpose. It is not ineligible from the positions of classifications proposed by the Government, but not in the essential sense of words, because these means will satisfy some, I can say, even the luxurious needs, at the expense of the elemental ones, which are thrown aside or be put off indefinitely. Yesterday, I said some things and now I'm just gonna do it again. All budgets are -- social, police, military and development -- in a position for the state to fulfil its obligations in all areas of the state. Now we need a completely different approach to economic policy. Obviously, this concept will leave everything to the market, lead all the way down to the street and start from a new beginning, which it will give as a result -- so many unemployed. Perhaps the bigger problem is that there is a large group of people who have been living for years in a lifeless situation -- they can't exercise the right to retire, and no one will accept them to work. The state cannot be passive in such situations. I fully agree that as of next year, a completely different process has started, i.e. a slightly more stimulating tax policy for newly employed persons, if the employer guarantees that he will be in the workplace, it seems to me that it has been five years and longer. Furthermore, the stimulant will also be about those categories of people who have a greater number of years of life and others. In order for that policy to be realised next year, this year too, the signal has to start - that more will be set aside to encourage the economy, to subsidize, to help move on with economic life, to start opening jobs. It is indisputable, as it is said, "Every hack that gets stabbed in the country and goes into business, comes to the rise of the number of employees." It is known that the development of construction and housing, by definition, draws 30% of the growth of industrial production, almost all areas monitored by construction. That, of course, can be good moves. But in order to make this happen, it also takes greater separation from the economic budget, to help the economy, for subsidies to start everything up. Some should also be helped to avoid this difficult transition time as easily as possible. There are many citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are losers in this transition. I'll use another minute to distract you. The budget for 2000 was 50 billion, also taking into account some state and para-state authorities, which may not have been shown in the budget. Now our 2006 budget is ten times higher. We also increased the number of employees in the state administration, the number of employees in extra-economic activities increased, the number of employees in direct production decreased, the number of para-state and state bodies increased, and the number of state authorities did not appear 10 times better than in 2000. If there had been at least two times a better standard for citizens, believe me, no one would have objected more significantly. But you can see that there is great dissatisfaction with the citizens, and it is a just dissatisfaction, because the state has left them on the street. That could be literally said, because that's right. The order from abroad cannot be such a nature, so binding on the government of the Republic of Serbia -- that it does not see its economy and its citizens in the budget. The entire area was given to people from abroad. There's been some money. Once part of the privatisation funds went to cover the budget deficit, and something went for some alleged investments, and today we have total chaos -- nobody lives knows where the funds go from privatisation. Wherever there's a privatization, you come across an affair, regardless of whether that privatisation goes with a direct television broadcast, or otherwise, so the public finds out with delay - who bought it, what money he bought, and how many workers he fired. There's always a question of how many workers he's fired. If the efficiency of production in Serbia is to be built on the layoff of workers, then it is a poor economy -- a poor economy for the state and for the citizens. The best social policy is that policy that provides full employment to a working-age population. In order to ensure this, we have proposed by amendment a redistribution of expenditure - in favour of subsidies, incentives for the economy and economic development of those who need to create a new value.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29396	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29397	Yes, Mr. Markovic, all of this is continuity and I must draw attention to this amendment, Mr. Todorovic, suggesting that Article 2 should be amended to read: "Budget for 2006 consists of: 1) total income of 521,269,000,000 2) total expenditure of 521,269,000,000". It is very clear and clear about this amendment and differs from what was proposed to Article 2 by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the government here delimits expenditure to the part for the regular financing of beneficiaries of budget funds and inserts the National Investment Programme. Even a budget surplus of around 15.5 billion dinars is shown and some debts are paid off. The amendments to the SRS to Article 1 and Article 2 shall represent one whole. We don't think there can be any surplus while there's unmistakable government obligations. The national investment plan is not something extra plus, but something that can be defined as a capital project that has its duration. He has his own past, he has his present and should have his future, and these are state capital projects in those areas within the jurisdiction of the state that the state has to constantly finance from the budget. Where is it fortunate that in the Budgetary System Act, we have an appropriate provision that points to an appropriate percentage of which, from the mass of total income, is to be allocated to investments, or to define it at an appropriate percentage or permeability relative to the gross social product. These must be the permanent development investments of the Republic of Serbia, along with those of its basic functions it must fulfil. We do not accept that the budget should have this national investment plan, because the national investment plan would, in our opinion, be something when a real surplus in the budget is achieved and when it is not necessary to return the extra revenue to those who have provided these revenues, economic operators and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should already invest in development, but not in state functions, but in the development of our economy, and on market principles, through some development banks, development funds, as a form of an incentive. You see for yourself, when it starts with this debate, it falls into the water of that story -- who doesn't vote for this rebalancing, he's not for the National Investment Plan. That's absolutely not true. We are in favour of redistributing funds collected in the course of the year on the basis of taxes and other public revenues, belonging to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that those allocations could be maintained to carry out their basic function, so that the state could exist and operate, and these are defence obligations, in terms of security, education, health care obligations, compliance with social policy obligations, etc. The other part is capital projects that have to exist, but it's supposed to be called different. Investments in developing functions are sometimes linked to activity, sometimes to basic assets, sometimes equipment, some pathways to higher levels of rights that have material separations, but not to personal consumption of citizens as individuals, but to material separations in terms of some activity. In that sense, you can talk about -- material separations towards health care, which not only concerns objects and equipment, but also training personnel, why not, must be followed by science and new achievements in education, in physical culture, not sports, it is better to say physical culture, sport is something else. We accept all this, but we cannot agree to this kind of statement. That's something we're proposing with this amendment. So there's no such thing as a surplus, he doesn't really exist. The repayment of debts does not come from surpluses, but from regular business. How wrong is that logic? Take an example, a legal person is in charge of a bank, took a loan. Well, I don't suppose he's gonna pay that bank back until he makes extra money, no, but he's pushing right away, so he doesn't get in trouble. We're about to be told here -- that legal person can return, say, Raiffeisen Bank, a loan only when he has a good positive business, so they stay some big money, and then he says, let's get the loan back. The obligations must be met. We cannot now fulfil our obligations through the National Investment Plan, we say - it is a surplus, we are not obliged, there is no obligation, and the state is obliged to turn schools, the state is obliged to ensure that normal beds exist in hospitals, that two patients are not sleeping in bed or that hospital reception is delayed because there is no room. It's a question of social battery. Is our economy capable of providing that accumulation at the level of the entire state, in order to provide both municipal, traffic, communication infrastructure and everything that life in this country means? It can't go from an extra program. It's an integral part of life and an integral part of this budget, as you have conceived it. Once upon a time, in order to make a trip, an industrial facility, at the time when there was one party, couldn't build a factory where whoever arrived, there were also questions about the Chamber of Commerce and these others. You can't build a factory where a rail track is needed, there's a train 100 kilometers from there. But we are now told, at a time of transition, that anything is possible at the time of the boom of democracy and the market economy. Since anything is possible, someone there shakes some capacity and then says yes, but I can't function. The security of the infrastructure depends on how it is in power and on how it interacts with the government. That's not how the state works. Then the question is, what are the plans, what is the spatial plan, what are the development plans? That's the point of our amendments, to draw attention to some things. Manage the EPP, the EPP lasts one day, two days, five days, pass, tomorrow we call ourselves who said what, who promised what. I don't want to call anyone for what they promised, but let's put something normal in the budget law. It's normal for this year's income to be in the same amount of expenditure. We accept that you have that excuse, but we don't accept that you are now showing that there is a surplus, that we don't know what we're going to do with the money, as was the last time the budget law was passed. It's said we have so much money, we don't know what to do with the money. If you don't know what to do with the money, then cut your taxes. That's the central question. You think, as a government, that the state budget is too rich, although the situation, as I read the statistics, is completely different. I'm not reading these independent economists that you're attacking, I'm reading these very institutes that are making analysis. They suggest that the situation is completely different. I don't like to quote a lot, and I peopleally want to explain what might be a little complicated to understand. I want to draw your attention to the fact that if this is the state of our public finances that you don't know what you're going to do with the money, so the National Investment Plan comes as an extra plus, then, please, there's something wrong with the revenue side. The revenue and expenditure sides of the budget must also be balanced in each position to have a real justification. You're telling us here -- the income side has no problems, we can fold as much as we want, and on the spending side -- this is real, and what's a surplus, that's something we've done great. You can't use a message like that in front of citizens. When such a cost arises between those two sides, where do you intervene? Does the line of expenditure, in order to be as normal or perhaps more appropriate as possible and as a developmental function, or are you changing the income side by reducing the rates of taxes? You have an excuse for that, too. The Serbian Radical Party will support you in this if you lower your tax rates. Why do you have excuses? We can't compare selectively, we can compare only by all economic indicators. We can't say that the salaries jumped two and a half times, this is so much and so much and we stop there. Where's that employment, where's the gross social product, where's the industrial production, where's the traffic? Now we've fallen two places on the list of credible investment countries. The minister boasted about some of those lists, how we're always in lower places, and now we've fallen, we've gone to worse place. Those who reportedly were announced yesterday that they were admitted to the European Union, fell to 11 seats. You see that the European Union has no criteria, it has only a political criterion, what is their interest. They don't care at all about our statistics and our estimates, you see, they criticize you the most, they squeeze you to finish this dirty work. We encourage you to get rid of this dirty work and you'll have our support, just keep everything normal, in function of development, to survive this nation and this people. In our projection, revenues are distributed to expenditures and there are no surpluses, and what you present to the National Investment Programme are capital projects for which there is a commitment in the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. As you can see, this is not at all difficult to understand, to understand every reasonable man. This is not a game of words, this is our reality, and you need to take care of it, because citizens remember everything. Maybe some time citizens remember a little bit shorter, some time longer, but they remember everything. I'll remind you of those six and a half billion in 2000, those burns and those socks, everything that's been going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29398	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Srjo Komazec has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Messenger Sr. Komazec.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29399	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. My amendment reads: "In Article 4 at the end of Article 1, point 1 is replaced by a comma and words are added: "and indent 4 is deleted". The National Assembly should not determine with its budget the revenue generated by the AP Vojvodina from its sources, especially since the draft budget does not set the ceiling for the amount and there are no precise sources of revenue. In addition to this argument, it is necessary to highlight the need to increase the transfer funds set out in Article 4. The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. The increase in the amount of 830,528,000 dinars in question is a disproportionate increase in the volume of the budget proposed by this law. The transfer amount of the AP Vojvodina budget should be increased and brought into line with the increase in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of providing additional funding to be financed not only in the areas of education and severance payments, but also in the needs of the culture, which will address the problems raised in other areas for which the funds are provided from the region's budget. I believe it is necessary to establish a correlation between the transfer funds made to the AP Vojvodina budget, the total funds available to the Republic of Serbia, as well as the real needs of financing the province's functions. The existing funds provided in the region for the financing of its functions, which encourages, most of all, income tax and corporate tax, are not sufficient. It is therefore necessary to provide additional funds, i.e. transfer funds, to enable the financing of increased needs, especially in the area of further development and to increase overall economic activity. I hope that the MPs, on the day set for the vote, will vote in favour of this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29400	Anyone else want a word? (No) Before we move on to the next amendment, we have a announcement that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held in the Small Hall, at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes today. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29401	In the beginning, I have to explain to you that I'm a member of the 5th. The Law on Changes and Supplements of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget refers to the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia and to the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Mr Markovic requested that Article 5 be deleted from paragraphs 2 and 3. I'd just like to brief on what this is all about. The position 1 shows the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of direct debt from the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of the potential obligations of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of earlier laws on debt and guarantees given by the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the debt situation, for public reasons, on July 31st 2006, has some monetary term, a numerical term in dinars, but I think it'll be easier for citizens to say it's a big number. I'm guessing this is nine billion 471 million 20 and I don't know how many thousands of euros, or something wrong is written here. It's a big debt, to be clear. You can see that this differs from what Mr Dinkic said in the opening statement here about the debt situation, foreign exchange reserves, etc. He tried to say that our real debt is worth a billion and something. All foreign reserve states should have about as much as necessary for a six-month normal service of an external trade project, and we have it in nine months. It's all something epochal, but when you look at these papers and these data and what a long state it's like, it's awesome. It is about two-thirds of Serbia's gross social product over the course of one year. It's dangerous. However, the 2nd and 3rd constitutions say that the Republic of Serbia will be in debt during 2006, so this turns out that in 2006, we will issue guarantees of up to 518m euros. I think I'm reading the right attitude, and that's attitude two. As for attitude 3, it says that the Republic of Serbia will sign 201m euros in 2006. So this direct borrowing, which these guarantees, is 700m euros in borrowing. Now anyone who follows this transmission can ask themselves why the Republic of Serbia is in charge of so much money when, say, it sold the "Mobtel" for a billion and some million euros? This borrowing has some of its own tranches, so the money wasn't given immediately. As far as I could hear, the media reported that the Mobtel buyers had already paid that money. I know it's a little hard to spend that money, because it's got to be stamped and inflation. Some abroad warn that it cannot go into personal consumption. I have to tell you that this national investment plan that you brag about is essentially personal consumption, because both the carpenter and the builder must be paid for what they did. In one part of the construction there is goods, which in its price has some work to be paid, and also a carpenter when he gets up, he should probably receive a salary. He's going into personal consumption again. Now you've got a big problem. It's not clear, if there's so much money, why are you in charge? This is all your data. I didn't make this up. The Republic has never been better in sales than Mobtel, so many and so many million euros have come, it's on the jury account, a billion and 500 million. I wish it was 16 billion. What are you in charge of? I don't know what that means. A little bit over here, a little over there. He can't do that, he has to sit in one chair, he can't sit in three chairs, not at all. Debt is done under different conditions, it's always presented as the best conditions. You've never heard - this is an unfavourable loan. It's always the best loan, a big period of waiting until it starts paying off, all the best. When these borrowing laws were passed, we said - don't introduce Serbia into some slave-owned relations. Officially, the owner of the estate cannot be a stranger, but based on his duties, he is, in fact, the owner. Why so much borrowing, when the results are good? That's what you have to answer. Just to warn you of one thing. When Ceausescu informed his nation that he no longer owes anything to the World Bank, the IMF, the Paris Club, the London Club, the CIA organised a coup and was killed, with a direct transmission from Serbia. If you do not be in debt, you will be eliminated?- I'm sorry. Let me know if that's the case. Then we'll treat you from all fears, and now we'll criticize you, because it doesn't make any sense what you're suggesting: we have money, but we have to be in debt. How's that? Whoever has the money, he puts them in the bank to make as much money as he can on interest. Our great economic expert teaches us to have money, but we don't know what to do with them, so we'll be in charge again. Something's not normal here, something's there for life, whether to go to the asylum, whether to go to jail, there's no other. We don't know what it's all about, we just know that everything and everything can be written here. You can write -- you can write -- you can write, you can write -- the highway, you can do this, you can do whatever you want. Now just to remind the public that, and when the Law on Public Debt was passed, we warned the Government of the Republic of Serbia what it would mean in practice and what consequences it would have. They smiled, they said, "Viradicals, you just talk and do nothing." That Dinkic now uses against radicals - radicals just talk and do nothing. We are the opposition, we cannot take the poles and beat you here in the congregation, but to warn you with words, to listen to us, not to make a mistake. We're more experienced, we're older, we prefer the state and the people. We've proven that and we prove it every time. If you're asking us to work, then tell us how you think we should work. That's a bad excuse. There are many losers in the transition, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that because of this uncontrollable borrowing of viod1. You will no longer be in the government, and then, as Djelic, you will boast: "In my time it was good." And what was good? Has anyone thought about children, about grandchildren, about puppies? No one's thought about it. "Keep the water while the masters leave." Why are we in debt when you get 6.5 billion on a gift? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia were informed on 24 September 2000 that DOS has 6.5 billion at the border, according to Batic. That's the one who said that only two flags were lit in the assembly, that the building was not burned down. Where's the money? Where are 4.5 billion from Cyprus? We haven't got the answer yet. We're just quoting you. Velimir Ilic went to control and said Dinkic knew it. Batic went to control and said Dinkic was onto something. Dinkic left, for the first time, and said, "There's, like, a billion and 600 coming right up." He went another time, picked up those forms 10-54 and said, "There's gonna be something." He left for the third time, read the report by The Hague tribunal's expert, Norwegians, on the condition of former president's funds, personal funds, it did not even appear in The Hague anymore, and the fourth time he came, he said, "There is no such money, forget it." Now explain to me how a reasonable man can find the truth. Is there a truth in there somewhere or is it in between, by stages? Even a book about it has been published. Let me remind you, he was on that team and some D.B. Bogician, so there was a friend who kept those accounts there, etc. Why do debt, when we have, when we're rich, why do we owe each other? We know that 35% of what we owe ourselves goes to consulting and other services to a foreign partner. That, perhaps, we are not in debt as a state because of the 35 percent of the support that needs to be given and left abroad? We do not have answers to these questions, and we do not want to answer in the papers, because this assembly speaker and this microphone are likely, if expressed in percentages, 99.9% of the only place in which politics is conducted in the Republic of Serbia. We ask that we be answered here, that we have accounts, not in the hallway, not in TV shows with some emotional names, like "Polygraph," where everyone who comes in admits whether they're lying or not, or "The rear-view mirror," you look at everything from the back; when you look at the rearview mirror, it's all the other way around, and they show us everything the other way around. No, this is where Vojislav Kostunica, and Boris Tadic, and Mladjan Dinkic, and Deputy Prime Minister and Governor, report daily, submit the accounts: why we are in debt, how much we owe ourselves, whether there is a project, who made the project, how much it costs, why it is necessary, why we haven't made an extra surplus in the budget, how much trouble there are people living under the poverty line, how many kids don't go to school, how many kids don't go to kindergarten, how many families are thinking in the morning that they're going to finish, what they're going to eat, what are they going to drink, etc? There's supposed to be a report here, not on RTS, B92 or I don't know where. Not in front of NGOs to answer, but here to answer, in front of MPs. Maybe some aren't pretty, maybe they're not interesting, but they're representatives of the people until someone changes them. This pay phone has become a means of media manipulation, with most to convince it to swallow the dumpling and vote, and with the audience, the citizens, who should accept everything and everything as necessary. Why – because some idiot said it in 2001 – we are leaving the ashes and another idiot told him – declared Serbia bankrupt. I'll never accept that. We start from the ashes like we're neither state nor nation. The Resistance, CESID, funds for "open and closed societies" cannot today shut down as a nation, that they influence us sociologically and psychologically and that we retreat and fall into depression. There's no depression, there's got to be a forward. You're supposed to be taking bills here. We have submitted the amendment and expect an answer to this amendment, a reasonable response, not with passwords – hyperinflation, borrowing. We, the Serbian radicals, owed Serbia from 1998 to 2000, but we were under sanctions then, no one wanted to look at us, let alone let go of oil or anything. And we're in charge?- I'm sorry. Then, on the second day, Dinkic comes out and says – there was no duty then, but this is a post from the period before 1980. Deprive these manipulations, come out and explain your positions and your position, with arguments and not passwords. Paroles are for other places. It's best when you write passwords on tarabs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29402	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29403	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Member of the 6th proposed amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia refer to the National Investment Fund. The campaign launched by Mladjan Dinkic and the resolution ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a pre-election campaign for the elections that you will welcome, but with a very low rating in the people, and what you have tried, and especially Dinkic, through this exclusive brochure that he has submitted to us as a major project of national importance, which will be realised by 2011, in fact one resource in the area of telecommunications, which had an initial price at the public auction of 800 million, has been auctioned for a significantly higher amount. The total amount of this sale is incorporated into the National Investment Plan, as well as everything envisaged to be sold until the end, which we cannot possibly allow to happen under this authority. Where good luck those predecessors from the "yellow company of thieves" didn't sell everything for! If it could have been carried out by responsible authorities, people like Serbian radicals, we today would have not only recovered economy and strategic development of certain industries, but citizens in their budgets, in factories, children in school, every household, pensioners, feel some improvement. If you look closely, ladies and gentlemen, this national investment plan, you will see that in the description of certain undeveloped segments of our society there are truths, but only descriptive. In one part, it is said that there are undeveloped areas, mountainous areas in Serbia, the region and regional inequalities in economic development, systematically neglected by previous authorities, and reportedly this Dinkic will take care of their development. First, in the specification of already approved funds, in the haze of some projects, figures are set, but nothing is realised until it is done. First, whether that money will ever reach those users, or, by the robbery system, as it has been, end up in private pockets and, as Mr. Vukic says, shovels will be loaded into trucks and their private accounts. You can see that there is no intention at all of the project's proponents to correct the justice that has been done by many parts of Serbia. Because if the project promoters of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, beware, NGOs – this is written to you on the first pages, and individuals, the question arises - how is it possible that some, and we do not know which, NGOs submit the project and that it is approved? Otherwise, not at all, so many times have been completely rejected by Serbian radicals that the budgetary inspection has little control over these NGOs, as they are financed. The question arises why are citizens deliberately punished in a large number of Serbian cities? In a campaign ahead of the local elections for the municipality of Leskovac, which will take place on Sunday (October 1st), we are confident, just like the citizens of the Leskovac municipality, in the convincing victory of Serbian Radical Party candidate Goran Cvetanovic. Mladjan Dinkic, in addition to falsely presenting some of the officials of the Serbian Radical Party and lying to the citizens of Leskovac municipality, said in his first day of work, by promoting this national investment plan, that the municipality had not delivered any project and that nothing was done there. That is not true, because the biggest problem, besides other infrastructure problems that the municipality has, and everyone in Serbia, is the water supply system of Barja. The project is worth 90m euros. From him so far, local self-government has invested fourm euros on the initiative of Dr Goran Cvetanovic, who was the president of the Municipal Assembly. I am confident, just like the citizens of Leskovac municipality, that he will be able to complete the water supply bar system, a burning problem for the locals of Leskovac, as the future president of the municipality, to hand over to the citizens for use. By the way, to inform the citizens of the region that a large national rally is being held today in Grdelica, where the future head of the municipality of Dr Cvetanovic and SRS Secretary-General Mr. Aleksandar Vukic will speak, and since 18 hours, at the central square in Leskovac, there is also a large national rally of citizens who expect such a victory of the SRS. And then when you catch the minister in the beginning in a lie, in deception, and the moment when there's nothing to answer, he runs away at any of these doors. I have submitted this amendment, as well as other SRS MPs, to the division of Article 7 to discuss concrete problems and how funds should be invested in economic development, however, Dinkic is not available. He was a little bit and left. Come on, let's say, let's talk about Bor. Let's talk about future privatisation. It was completed as it was completed and it is not the capital project of Mladjan Dinkic, neither Kostunica nor the Government, but rather the toresur which the state had and which was sold to a foreign company -- "Telenor". The money is now used for what they called the National Investment Plan, but through political projects. Let's talk about the Pine-Top Baser Bor. The elected president of the Bor municipality, Mr Branislav Rankic, won voter confidence just over two months ago, up to 64 per cent. He immediately updated, first as a man of the profession, because he is a mining engineer, and then as the elected president of the municipality, the issue of privatization of the Topipian Base. What did he find? That some three completely uninformed young men, sent from Dinkic's ministry, from the Privatisation Agency, from the government of the Republic of Serbia, came out for two or three hours, and estimated that the value of the capital of the Mining-Topion base Bor was about 300 million, and the debt ratio of 77 million was inflated to 600m euros and created a negative relationship between the real value of capital and debt. For example, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, one such mine, which began to be exploited and the infrastructure of the 1970s was built in Iran, was estimated at several billion dollars at the time. You logically conclude that only infrastructure is worth incomparably more than this estimated value, with the fact that the mining-topic base Bor in the total mass of copper stock in the world participates with 1.8% and that it is 250. 1,000 people, who work in a direct or indirect manner, damaged by the amount of actions up to 30%, which the Serbian government obviously does not want to give them and that one big robbery and fraud is being prepared - that, according to the elaborates that have been done by experts from this area in the late 30s in Germany, what the national treasure has sold to budza. You think Dinkic's intention is to do all of this fairly, not his, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, the previous one, and at the real value of capital, to privatise?- I'm sorry. Not and they know it in cities and municipalities where sugar and cement plants are sold for two euros each. They were bought by tycoons from the Democratic Party. Who is preparing for the privatisation of Serbia's electricity industry? Dijac Hamovic-Lazarevic, the best man, close friends of Mladjan Dinkic, Hamovic, who is not removed from Republika Srpska's state television because of the uninterrupted robbery of Republika Srpska's citizens there. Then what are we talking about here? About fair privatization and the fair invested dinar by the previous and this authority? Don't make fun of me. If they wanted to do so and had had fair intentions, they wouldn't have gotten rich in such a short time and left the workers out of work. Therefore, justifying concern for RTB Bor employees and everywhere, in Serbia's Elektroprivred, the oil industry of Serbia, where privatisation is being prepared. Why isn't there a flag car industry in this national investment plan? Because Dinkic, just like the one who supported him, Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic, needed this only in the pre-election campaign. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the traveling circus, headed by Kostunica and two people who are falsely representing themselves and who will have to answer for it, one as foreign minister, who, I hear, today, is beating up everything again in the newspapers and saying that there is some plan B for Kosovo and Metohija, Vuk Draskovic, and the other, a dangerous man, who falsely presents himself as Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, came in July of Kragujevac. What did Dinkic, Kostunica and Bubalo promise? That, for a short time, as long as by the end of July, Kragujevaca's car factory will receive aid for the renewal of technology and for the start of production of a new model in the factory since January 2007, amounting to 14m euros. Have you heard Dinkic about these three days or, perhaps, Bubala, since I see that he ran and played in this pre-election campaign and fakery all over Serbia, that they mentioned that they intend to help the car factory? You're not. They've ruined the Dedicated Products Factory. First, Boris Tadic did it as defence minister, before that DOS government and ministry in which Vesic, Sutanovac and others were in, which is more important that an Ohio officer came to them than that the military has something to eat and to strengthen its structure. Not only did they go so far as to falsely represent one man who is a top associate of Carla del Ponte, Zoran Stankovic, for the defence minister, but in the Budget Rebalance proposal, they taxfully stated what it is that the Serbian Army, or the Serbian Army, is to be called, must be remounted, from planes, through all other facilities. Say if it's normal and in which country in the world it exists, and would the Americans do it, would you say in your budget project, at your choice, the one from Ohio who came to shake hands and greet this disgrace for the military and Tadic, like this -- that's what the Pentagon is going to do, these funds are needed for that and that, we're dealing with this research activity in the NATO alliance and military industry?- I'm sorry. We are a country that, because of those who are in power and because of those who have completely and in all stitches ruined everything, today in a situation that has to start from the worst, which is to root out crime and corruption and to really start with strategic products. Where's the strategic social program here? He's gone. Did the state do, but in the right sense of the word, social tickets to the most endangered? It's not. The easiest thing to boast about is that one of the state's resources is sold at a relatively good price, but that's also discriminatory, and we can talk about it, or experts for that area, but what about future privatisations, what about people who expected you to invest and open a factory, say for the flag cars. Will Dinkic be picked up again with a light tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to come out in front of the union employees at the car factory? He won't, because he decided to send a letter today, he was crying and crying yesterday, he's been saying hello here all day, leaving, so some future government, allegedly democratic bloc, is going to do it. There won't be a government like that. There will be SRS governments and the government will take care of those who are jobless, those who are hungry, pensioners and farmers. You have to imagine over the fact that one of the regime's sheets, therefore one that is under the control of the state, "Politicals", published in Sunday's release, in addition, an interview with one of the largest agricultural producers in the municipality of Kikind. This man, who is 50 and a few years old, whose family is wealthy and has large complexes of land, people have been growing grain in his country for years, says I give up everything, I don't need this, that the state humiliates me so much, and that it sets my price 30% lower, that I can't get for my hard work and the work of my ancestors and my domesticated fair credit. Of course he won't do it anymore. No one normal in this country will stand up to a robbery anymore. One more thing, I'm finishing up, although we're going to talk about it in these sections. With all this and with these, as of this morning, the ludicrous statements of the one who falsely presents himself as Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, you are playing with the patience of the difficult fate that has hit our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. Pay attention to the item -- economics and entrepreneurship in Kosovo and Metohija. For all the other municipalities in which somehow, under occupation, our people can find justification and say that some elaborates have arrived, some projects. The article -- Business and Entrepreneurship for Kosovo and Metohija stands at 400m dinars. Let your colleague Kragovic, counterpart Mihajlovic from Strpc, counterpart Peric from Gracanica, tell you whether they heard from a living Serb who told them that he had applied for the incentive and development of entrepreneurship. Of course it's not because it's one of the items for robbery and theft, and we have to stop you from doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29404	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The Government has submitted to Sections 1, 6, 8, 11, 15, 24 and 35. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 7 paragraph 6. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29405	Mr. Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 7. Section 6 relating to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, even more specifically, 6.4. - Function 110, referring to the cabinet of the Prime Minister. We're asking to delete this. Why are we asking him to delete himself? Well, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, and you'll hear later -- and the Deputy Prime Minister, since that's about the same thing, is just a difference in money, not an organ, is not an organisational unit within the meaning of the State Administration Act, which would have the status of a legal person or an entity and so on. When we passed the Law on Government, on civil servants and on state administration, we understood, at least so Mr. Balinovac informed us that the cabinet is the possibility, that the cabinet should work in the cabinet the co-workers of the Prime Minister who should assist him in his functions as Prime Minister, in these professional, analytical and protocol affairs, but that this cannot be a special budgetary user. This is about the office as a direct beneficiary of the budget. The cabinet cannot have a direct beneficiary of the budget. The direct beneficiary of the budget can be the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the organisational units within it can be the cabinet of the President, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. I must remind you of my dear subject - the President of the Republic. That's split 3. - The President of the Republic, where this function is also 110. You didn't give the People's Office as something special, you put it all under the name of a state body. The state body is called the President of the Republic of Serbia. You don't have any economic classification relating to the People's Office, not even as an organisational form, but what people are doing there on these other items, where the salaries are, where this, where it is, and so on. Now, the President of the Republic as an organ is planned with a total of 171 million dinars. That part didn't get air services, because a man likes to travel a lot, so if it did add up, then the amount is far, far higher. We are the only country on the globe where in the Republic's budget for the division - the President of the Republic there are two positions and two economic classifications, that our abroad is funded by the President. That's offensive to the state. It's an insult to the citizens. Citizens want to have a state authority - the President of the Republic. Don't look at the President of the Republic through John's name and last name. He's a passerby. Depends on the will of the people, whether someone wins the election or not. But here we are talking about the state authority - the President of the Republic. This state body must not be financed from abroad, however modest it is, if it is a computer, if it is something else, I don't know. I doubt it. If they give him a computer, he'll give him something to listen to, and I don't like my state body being tapped from abroad. So when I talk about this, I don't tie it to the name and last name, although he likes listening, but okay. Now, let me get back to what's going on with the Prime Minister, or the cabinet. That's where 70,954,000 dinars were planned. It's terrible money, huge money. Well, now listen, 33,944,000 dinars have been planned with the Deputy Prime Minister. It's just for the cabinet again. Well, the General Secretariat of the Government at the end has 396,419,111 dinars. Then, everything the government -- the Office for Media Cooperation -- 99,310,000 and some dinars, the Office for Joining the European Union, means, just to change hair color -- almost 70 million dinars. Well, the Anti-Corruption Council -- nearly 16 million dinars, the Staff Office -- 46 million dinars, the Human and Minority Rights Service -- 25 million seven hundred and some thousands of dinars. I think this is Rasim Ljajic. I'm going to skip these centres for Kosovo, because I can't put them in the same basket with what I've been quoting so far. Well, within the government, I think this is too much. What is now the state of the funds according to these positions intended for official travel? Here, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, the cost of travel is 36.5 million dinars; as far as the cabinet of the Prime Minister is concerned, the cost of travel is 1.5 million, but the gross cost is in the airline of other authorities; the cabinet of vice presidents - travel expenses - millions of dinars. I think you've shown more resources for workers here than you have for them. The Office for Media Cooperation -- 6.5m dinars, the Office for Joining the European Union -- 5.8m dinars. Human and minority rights service - 3,800,000 dinars. Government Air Service, travel expenses - eight million dinars, and so on. So that someone doesn't get what I'm about to say wrong right now, I'm not going to compare these amounts to the items in these financial plans you suggested. So, the financial plan of the Pension-Employment Fund, the financial plan of the pension-inhabited insurance of independent farmers, the Health Protection Fund, as well as the Financial Plan of the Employment Service. So I'm not going to compare anything with the corresponding items in those financial plans. I don't want to compare the amounts with the basic functions shown in some of the financial plans. Like, for medicine, for equipment and so forth. I'm just suggesting that these are unreal high costs, because you can determine that there are several people in each body who kill themselves traveling abroad, and no benefit to the state of that. If this office of association can bring down all its activities to arrest Ratko Mladic, in order to, I don't know what we would do, then we don't need such an office. If we need a special office to join us, then we don't need at least four employees in every ministry. You have to get them out of work because their work is done by some office. If we need this kind of funding for this government information office, for official travel, I'm not talking about Internet costs, etc., I'm not talking about communication costs, it's a second item, but that they're going around, what they're going through, I don't know, probably it's an election campaign, then we don't need that either. Then we need to shut down, we don't need RTS. What will RTS do when the press co-operation office can finish everything? They dictate what to do, they write what to say, and solve the problem. Let me just get back to the beginning, so the MPs don't forget. The cabinet of the Prime Minister is an internal organisational part that does not have the capacity of the beneficiaries of the budget. The beneficiary of the budget is the General Secretariat of the Government. The basic purpose of our amendment is that. We're either asking for these funds to be shown there, or to be thrown out, because the cabinet is not a beneficiary of the budget. That's where you break the law and you can't get the legal basis, even if you adopt the law on the budget system, that is, the changes and additions we talked about yesterday. Here is evidence of non-intentional cost statements, illegal cost statements in certain positions of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget. I'm quite surprised that the legalists are breaking the law. On the principle of respect for the law, promotion of the law, someone provided votes, but that was only valid until it came into the chair. As soon as he sits in the chair, the law under his feet, throws him away, can be trampled, can be broken, and one law you invented a cabinet, so we criticized you here, here, now you've shown him as a beneficiary of the budget. It cannot be a beneficiary of the budget under any of the criteria. Who is the authorized person to make available the funds for the cabinet of the Prime Minister? He's gone. We should be chasing the vault looking for him. We'd find a lot of things there, but we'll look for when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29406	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 7 of the Sixth Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Section 6 of Article 7 with a proposal to delete the funds planned for the Office for Joining the European Union. If there is an EU Association Office, what about the Office of Association with Russia, China and other friendly countries? If, as Mr Krasic said earlier, there are at least four people in each ministry who do this job, what Mrs. Tanja Miscevic does, it seems to me to be called, the question is, where does the amount of funds -- 60 million, predict for that office? I ask a parliamentary question - what act is it envisaged, how does many employees in that office work to join the EU? I think it was more meaningful that these funds that were provided for the work of the EU Association Office were allocated for pensions, salaries, etc., because children who are educated in Republika Srpska, which is characteristic of municipalities that are on the edge, have no children's allowance, and are educated there for practical reasons, because schools that exist in neighbouring towns in Republika Srpska do not exist in the Republic of Serbia, so for children who are educated there it has treatment abroad. I don't know if he's not in these special relationships right now, or with an agreement signed in Banja Luka, that's supposed to change something. I think it would also be more useful for citizens to use these funds, which are intended for the work of these offices, for these purposes and for a number of others, through the necessary things for the citizens of Serbia, and for this I suggest that they be deleted and I hope that in the day of voting you will accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29408	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric says that the intention of the SRS is not to allow any amount of money provided for in this budget rebalance, from the National Investment Plan, not to waste on some projects and some programmes that essentially mean nothing. The state apparatus, increased through offices, through agencies, through various other newly-compromised institutions in our country, has for the past six years hired like-minded people of this so-called. a democratic, and in fact a thief's bloc, to the extent that citizens no longer know what they are paying, those who must now, because of the nature of the laws adopted under the EU order, in the process of harmonisation and accession, pay something. Here, I'll explain it to you on the case of this tobacco agency. It was founded just over two years ago. Each owner of an independent trade shop that must have in a product range that offers a certain number, i.e. several brand of cigarettes, must pay an annual membership fee, i.e. to ask for permission from the tobacco agency, and that is the amount that has now been doubled compared to last year, so that the average bill for one small shop, in any place, in any part of the city, in the village, in the city, such that someone would have to know how many dozen boxing cigarettes a week to sell to pay him what the charge was imposed on him by the state, or the tobacco agency. Not only here, but in all other areas, you have to pay for everything that people didn't pay for before, because of production and hyperproduction of agencies, offices, and I don't know what. You should see what the reports coming through this office Mr. Peric and the lady mentioned look like. People's MPs can ask for the service in the Serbian Parliament and the Committee on Economic Relations, although they are not members, because there is a secretary who is very kind and prejudicial, to print out the Serbian version, as there is one English one. From these innovations in the expressions of individual politicians and those who are terribly smart, well, experts are, when something from part of that review is used as an English word in their new speech, you can clearly see where we are and what they intend to do with us. Since Romania and Bulgaria, our neighbouring countries, have been given the green light on January 1, 2007, but under certain conditions, accession to EU membership remains a question and a thought for all of you who see Serbia's future in this alone and are only willing to crawl, hit you, maltenes, worse than bars in your head, to arrest Serbian generals, to leave the citizens without a job, to cut wages, pensions, to lay off, to change laws that directly concern the most socially endangered. Look there in that report, which periodically appears for three or six months -- what are further conditions and what they are asking Serbia to do, that is, from such authorities as this and the previous one. Is there anything there to hope for the citizens of Serbia -- that new factories will open, that exports will increase, for example, agricultural products? That's not what they're after, because that's not what they're after. In the process of passing new laws, Natasa Micic, and the president of this new assembly, Predrag Markovic, praised that the Assembly passed over 200 laws, the previous Assembly -- over 300 laws, which harmonize our regulations with theirs. Underline and see where we are today. If they gave a positive assessment and an opinion on the legislative area, so you had to remove the quorum and have 5-6 of you from the authorities present, that there were no ministers and that you could pass laws, or just show up and get dragged into certain days and somehow buy you up when it's voting day, that you vote, see what agricultural production is, and whether farmers have in the meantime. Whether they're higher wages and pensions -- they're not. That's because they asked to be paid and pensions cut. The nominal amount is higher, as you boast and talk, but in dinars, compared to 2000, and you do not consider how much a German mark was then and, later, the euro, when that conversion was made a year later, and what you could buy for that money, and what you can do today. What can Serbia, at this time, export to the EU countries market, which should be dealt with by this office? In a report that they deliver for three, six months or a year, there are these clear blackmails and conditions that you must certainly meet, but you will and do not object to it, because you say that The Hague tribunal, or quasi-sud in The Hague, is a court of justice. I cite as an example that Momcilo Krajisnik, as president of the Republika Srpska Parliament, a state that has its own organs and today struggles to survive and not drown in unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina, received 27 years in prison yesterday. How about that? That's good, probably, and that's nice, and it's a court of justice, so we need to work with him and deliver our citizens. You have not rebelled, and this lady has not told any of those from the EU, who are laying down conditions for you, said anything about human rights violations and the fact that the president of Serbia's largest party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, has been there for four years and has voluntarily surrendered to The Hague Kazamat, without being able to defend himself. You read that in the paper yesterday. It is another in a series of farces, irony and all that should be a reminder to you who advocate such serviality and co-operation with that quasi-sud, or a warning to all those who have seen that there is being tried by the entire Serbian people. That's why the president of our party is there - to defend the interests of your children and your grandchildren and unborn children. You look at it and say it's good – here, we'll give them more money for it. Why isn't that money used, or who knows what kind of machine is there and how many are working, to open up a new job? Why didn't you think about giving an incentive to a factory, even if it was a small factory, that would employ 50 people, so people in that smaller community would be satisfied? There are clear and unequivocal conditions -- further decommissioning our national, ethnic and cultural space, destroying Serbia's economy. These are the conditions that must be met. Packs are made, from budget to budget, from IMF, from World Bank. I'm going to go back to the question - what can we take them and what can we sell them at this point - nothing. Could we have exported the raspberries until a few years ago, and at a good price for raspberries -- we could have. Can we do that today? We can't. In this, we were overcome by the Czechs and the Poles, who made an expansion with that fruit, began to grow from a year and a half ago. You can ask the raspberries from the Valjev and the outside -- if they're satisfied with the ransom price. Is that what local mobsters and tycoons do? They're doing it anyway. Could a peasant, a malelain who wants to work honestly, sell at the same price as a colleague from the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, sell raspberries on the Western European market, in England, France, Germany? He can't. Why did farmers from France rebel when an EU referendum was adopted? Because such laws, which you bring here, have ruined them and because they know they cannot survive under such conditions. We today, like the country that used to have a strong metal industry, and the car industry that I was talking about earlier, that we don't talk about agriculture and the food industry, where we could even secure the market, we listen to your stories -- that we co-operate, persistently, only with those of us who won't buy anything. We've had a signed free trade contract since 1998 with the Russian Federation. Last December, in Moscow, that fiasco was held since the presentation of Serbian businessmen, headed by individual ministers. Kostunica, you know, was offended that day, because he couldn't take Putin in the same day, so he said he couldn't go on a date. Putin could not receive it at the time of the negotiations, or the Russian-German summit, so he said, as an offended bride, - come on, you ministers go there. There were some Serbian radicals, the presidents of the municipalities, i.e. the future president of the municipality, Dr Goran Cvetanovic. I'd just like to remind you that in 15 minutes, a big national rally begins in Grdec, and at 18 o'clock in Leskovec. Furthermore, Mr. Blazic, president of the Kikind municipality, and there, in Russia, nothing was organised by the state, none of our projects were and no one could conclude any contract, make some serious business contract and our state would mediate it. The only major investment that has come to Serbia for the past six years has come from Russia, and through the Swiss Investment Corporation. Thanks to who? Thanks to Tomislav Nikolic, which was referring to the construction of a 609m-euro gas thermopower plant, with the potential to employ a large number of people and give good thought to the future -- that energy is what politicians everywhere will fight for, in all countries, about which battles will be fought both in the elections and in diplomatic contacts in international terms. You don't think that way about it, you just think about how you should fill out everything they wrote to you, so where did it crack? The jurisdiction of the judiciary and every other segment were well-determined and indicated when the law was to be passed. Here, live be, it will appear, if this government lasts, but I don't believe it, and this assembly council, if you somehow manage to hold a session in this regular session that follows us, which would not be good, because it's good to go to elections, it's obvious that you have no legitimacy, by order and date as determined by the Office, or by those from the EU -- Stojkovic will appear with the law we told him that they wrote it. All the laws are written there and coming from that office. We believe that in Serbia there should be ministers and people chosen by the people, who are able to write laws that are applicable and good for the citizens of Serbia, rather than continue with this practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29410	I thank Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic regarding Article 7th of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29411	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. In Article 7. Section 6, Chapter 6.8. Function 160, after economic classification 481, is added to the new economic classification "511 Buildings and construction buildings", in column 6 the amount is 751.227.000, in column 8 the amount is 751.227.000. This budget is intended for the reconstruction of schools, health facilities, dwellings for displaced persons, traffic infrastructure, economic development and the increase of citizens' standards in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, and the schedule and use of funds will take place under a special government act. In Chapter 6.11, Function 110, economic classification 551 is deleted. The National Investment Fund proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is one big scam by Mladjan Dinkic has been appointed to the G17 Plus party, as there are no new real investments. This is a classic example of thesis replacement, where plans and programmes of ministries related to the ongoing investment maintenance of buildings and capital investments, which have existed in the budget so far, are called the National Investment Plan. In order to support that, I will also read the explanation given by the proponent of this budget rebalance. On page 210, Chapter 6.11, reads: "The Office of the Serbian Coordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija. The KiM Coordination Centre Regulation established this service as a government service. “ Not to repeat what the ministry is doing. Among other things, it also provides funds to reduce wage payments for 4.540 employees from local self-government units from the AP KIM territory. An increase in funds will allow these employees to receive 12 salaries in 2006. So that's the national investment plan. A major success of the finance ministry has succeeded in ensuring that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who are employed in the administration receive 12 salaries. If it wasn't for this national investment programme, they would have received 2, 3, 4 salaries in a year. That's what it says on page 210. This is one big project that the government wants to face the citizens of Serbia, one big con, and since the citizens of Serbia don't know what they're planning, I'll use my time to read it, to introduce them to what they intend to do. It's going to be this year, so we'll see what's going to be realized, probably nothing. I'll start in a row. It is planned: the reconstruction and construction of primary schools in Lipjan, Novi Njeselje, Skulanovo, Radevo, Gornja Gusterica - in SO Lipljan, then the reconstruction of the school "Branko Radčević" for the needs of the University of Pristina - Kosovo Mitrovica. There is also the construction of a mini-service slaughterhouse of the Agricultural School in Leška, SO Leposavic, the construction of the OS "Miladin Popović" in the village of Pasjane, the Higher Technical School in Zvečana - the acquisition of equipment, the Higher Economic School in Peća - the acquisition of equipment, as well as the completion of the construction of the facility More Teacher School and departments of the Faculty of Philosophy in Ranilug. For them are separate funds partly in this, and mainly in the following year, 2007. In the area of health care, it is planned to build a hospital in the village of Žitkovac, SO Zvečan, functional completion and construction of three hospitals of general type at the locations of Pristina-Gracjanica, SO Strpce - Strpce, SO Gjilane – Budriga. Then, the construction of the clinic in Ugljar, SO Kosovo Polje, reconstruction and construction of the infirmary in Babina Most, SO Obilić, construction of the clinic in Lipjan, construction of the infirmary in Gornja Gusterica, construction of the clinic in Livaj, SO Lipjan. Apartment: the construction of 18 houses and infrastructures for internally displaced persons in the village of Berivojce, SO Kosovo Kamenica, the construction of 29 houses and infrastructures for internally displaced persons in Donja Budriga, So Gjilane, the completion of the construction of stable facilities 1-5 with 25 apartments in Mali Zvecan, So Zvečan, the construction of 20 houses and infrastructures for internally displaced persons in the location of Jagnjenica and Zupče, So Zubin Potok, the co-financing of the completion of a residential building with 42 apartments in Leposavic, the care of internally displaced persons and socially endangered categories of the population in Kosovo-mitrovar County, the construction of 70 houses and infrastructure for internally displaced persons in Novi Badovac, SO Pristina-Gražanica, the co-finance of residential buildings for internally displaced persons in the area of the town and the town of Pristručna pristivnica. This is what they call non-financial assets and these funds are planned in the following year for 751,227,000 dinars. Then comes the transport infrastructure: reconstruction and asphalting of the regional road Zubin Potok-Dren-East, reconstruction and asphalting of the access road Jagnjenica-Prelez-Manastir Deep Stream, reconstruction and asphalting of the road Gracanica-Laplje Village and the construction and reconstruction of transport infrastructure in the territory of KIM. In the Department of Economic Development, the programme for encouraging entrepreneurship and employment is planned to separate 119 million dinars this year. There is also the regulation of the riverbed of the Miljoštica River in Strpc, the construction of a sanitary block for the container settlement "Potok" in Plemetina, SO Obilić, as well as the construction of a water network in Radev, SO Lipljan. And, the last item is the standard of citizens, where the planned funds for the construction of the physical-sports hall in Zubin Potok, then the construction of the House of Culture in the Suvo Grlo, SO Serbs, the completion of the football field FK "Kopalnik" in Leška, SO Leposavic, the construction of the children's kindergarten in Socanica, SO Leposavic, the OS "Vuk Karadzic"- the completion and construction of the sports hall in Socanica, the construction of the first phase of the sports hall in Leposavic, the Faculty of Physical Culture in Leposavic - the construction of the sports hall. There is also the construction of the interiors of the spiritual academy - bogoslovija in Kosovo Mitrovica, the construction of central heating for the House of Culture in Gracanica, the construction of the sports polygon for small sports in Dobritina, SO Lipljan, the adaptation of old school for the needs of cable TV central in Babina Most, SO Obilić, the construction of the cultural and educational centre of the church of Lipjan in Lipjan, the construction of the terrain for small sports in Lepina and Radovo, SO Lipljan, the construction of the kindergarten in the village of Vrbovac, SO Vitina, the acquisition of the equipment for cinema in Donjo Gušterica, SO Lipljan. In this section are the reconstruction of the monastery Vračevo, the Eparchy of Raško-prizrenska, the reconstruction of the monastery Decani, the reconstruction of the monastery of the Mostar of the Holy Virgins, the Sokolic, the Zvečan, the reconstruction of the monastery of St John, Sočanica, the Eparhya Raško-prizrenska, nine monks, the reconstruction of the monastery of St. Nicholas, Gorioč, Raško-Prizrenska eparchy, the origin of the 17th century, the six nuns, and the reconstruction of the Spiritual Academy of Kosovo Mitrovica. This is what this national plan and investment plan planned to implement in Kosovo and Metohija. When there was a principle debate, I warned Mr. Minister that in these three years, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Government, had not invested a single dollar. Unfortunately, he's confessed to me from this pay phone so far, but that some funds are being planned. Better ever than never. I'd just like to say one thing. In school, for example. 2004/05, in a large village called Priluje, there were two primary school classes, with 20 and some students. However, a year later, precisely because of the lack of these funds, due to uncertainty, we have only one ward with 18 students, and given the circumstances and insight into this plan and programme, the entire municipality of Vuchitrn has been bypassed, as if it does not exist on the geographical map. No single dinar is planned for this national investment plan, which is another disgrace and shame, since we know that the village of Priluje is currently one of the largest villages in the area of KiM, where there are about 2.5 thousand citizens and about 500 displaced persons from the surrounding villages who are located and living and day-to-day in the village of Prilužje. I would ask the government to think fat over the next period and not to neglect a settlement like this, where about 4000 Serbs live, with one note: I responsibly argue that none of the only meters of land, nor housing, has been sold one square meter. It is a healthy environment in which Serbs decided to stay, but the government has no hearing about them and does not want to invest in them. Because of this problem, young people will likely decide to leave the post, which could be prevented if there was some serious programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not only marketingly to act and to announce that we will do something, and it promises only crazy joy. I don't think there's anything that should be called after all these elections and that some new government, if there's any good will, is torealizing and really sending the necessary funds to the citizens in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29412	Thank you, sir. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted to article 7 by MP Mitrovica. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29413	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 7 of Section 6, Chapter VI of point 10, function 110, the text reads - Serbia's Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. counterpart Nenad Mitrovic's proposal, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is to change this and to say that these funds are for the Republic of Serbia's Development Fund. In light of the amendments, Nenad Mitrovica was clearly written, which is why this amendment was submitted. Because budget spending for the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities and the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre is appropriate, given the number of Serbs who returned to their hearths in Kosovo and Metohija and, unfortunately, the Serbs leave Kosovo and Metohija on a daily basis. This is a problem to be addressed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These funds, which have so far been foreseen in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, have always been very high and no one has ever known how they were spent. What we know, both from the field and from the people who live there, is that these funds were mainly spent by close associates of Neboja Covic and him personally, and recently the newspaper has also written about some close associates and relatives and new coordinators. The funds should certainly be channelled towards the Development Fund, given the current situation in the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, in this part of the Republic of Serbia, this means in Kosovo and Metohija and in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. It should, of course, take more care of the creation of conditions for the employment of these people there, of creating conditions for their survival on their centuries-old hearths. In this government, unfortunately, no one cares about that. When speaking for this pay phone, when spoken in the media, in the public, then everyone swears in Kosovo and Metohija, then everyone swears in this spirit of the southern Serb municipalities, and when something concrete is to be helped there, then we have something stuck, blurry, so that all those who don't need to benefit from it -- they benefit, and people who live there, who live there in very difficult conditions, don't literally benefit from it. Every time we asked, from the time Nebojsa Covic was the head of this co-ordination team, that a report be made available to the National Assembly on the spending of these funds intended for the Coordination Body, because too many funds were made available to one man. This parliament has never been able to get to know the report, and we do not even know today what it is, and why it spent money on Nebojsa Covic, as we do not know today what Mrs Sanda Raskovic-Ivić is spending it on. This is what we will continue to insist on, because it is unacceptable for people living in that part of Serbia to live in such bad conditions, and that we here boast of the budget surplus, that we here boast of some figures, here, for that service of the Coordination Body, 341,966,000 dinars. Imagine how much money that is. Now I ask the representatives of the government, who are not here, or Mr. Dinkic, because he represents the budget in front of the National Assembly, how much this service is, how many people are in that service, what these people are doing there, is it really justified that these funds are being spent, and you will allow me, 342 million are small funds, and it would mean a lot to people who are left to live there, who are the misery of preserving Kosovo and Metohija. And in Bujanovac, Medvedji and Presevo, unfortunately, it's a very difficult situation not to say similar. We know that, when these extraordinary elections were in the municipality of Bujanovac, the funds foreseen by the previous budget for the work of these services of the Co-ordination Tellat spent in the local election campaign, and very wrongly, because they were spent only by certain Serbian parties. Thanks to such use and abuse of these funds, we had the election results we had. I talked about it the other day and I'm really still under that impression, and now I'm going to say it again -- if these almost 350 million dinars were invested, for example. In a refugee camp in Mataruska Banja, then surely those people from Kosovo and Metohija who live there would have much better conditions, the conditions of a decent man. Because in those conditions, I really have to repeat, I don't know which one of us here could last six or seven days, and these people have been living there for six or seven years, and, of course, there's no item in this budget that takes care of that. It's not just that in Matarushka Banja, there are still many refugee camps. We still, unfortunately, have refugees from the former republics -- Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have also not taken care of themselves in Serbia, who are powerless to help themselves. They expected and expected that the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, would help them, but unfortunately, these people are not taken care of in Serbia. In fact, those in charge, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, don't worry about it. I'm quite certain that these funds, although not written here, are also used indirectly for the function of the National Office. Where the "yellows" are in power, in these municipalities, to assist some parties from the ruling coalition at the republican level, and how these funds are being abused to promote Boris Tadic and the National Office, to promote all their thievery based on which they are trying to collect some political points. I would like one of them and one of you gentlemen to go where I was ten days ago, because these people from Kosovo and Metohija in Matarushko Banja told me that there are two MPs from the ruling coalition, one MP and one MP from that former assembly, that they have never come to see how these people live, where the children go to school, what conditions they learn, how by four or six of them live in a flabby room, with a common toilet and a common bathroom for a whole floor, where the last floor rains directly on the bed and head while they sleep. This is indeed a terrible situation. Before I came down to the gym, I had a call from a group of Serbian citizens living in the Kingdom, and there are certainly other parts of Serbia, who worked in social firms, who can no longer live in the part of Kosovo and Metohija that have been occupied by the Cypriot terrorists. These people in Serbia can't get a job, and they live with something I'd call some kind of social aid, which is 4,000 dinars that they get from the National Employment Service. Imagine people who don't have a house or a home, who live far from their hearth, because they had to get out of there, because from there they were driven out by Shipatarian terrorists, who live somewhere as tenants, or in these refugee camps, and from 4,000 dinars, they had to support families, they had to send children to school, they had to support their old parents and bury them, because, unfortunately, that's what happens. Nowhere about that is our official government representatives saying a word. Boris Tadic, when he was here and committed a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure, when in his discussion about Kosovo and Metohija, he took the last word, which he couldn't, because he had to speak before the MPs, so that we would comment on what he stands for as his views, then God knows how I agreed with what I said, and it's about these people living in Matarushko Banja, in these refugee camps. I don't know what he did, he's the government, and we're talking here from the opposition's position, for a very short time, we're the opposition. I also tell these people in Matarusko Banja, and those people I don't know about living with 4,000 dinars, that we will quickly replace the position here, thanks to their votes and votes by most citizens in Serbia and that, certainly, when Serbian radicals are the majority in this assembly and when the SRS government is in Serbia, it will not happen that the minister in the government will say that he will increase some of the profits of the citizens who are from Kosovo and Metohija and that this increase in profits is a ballast for the Republic of Serbia's budget. I am really surprised that you who support the government and Minister Dinkic, gentlemen, did not react, because it is really unacceptable for the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to dare, in front of the public, to say that he is costing, that is, part of the budget he plans for Kosovo and Metohijublast for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I remind the Minister of the funds provided for in the Republic of Serbia's budget for all its purposes are not its assets, not the Government of Serbia's funds, not Boris Tadic's funds, but the funds of Serbian citizens, citizens of all Serbia, and those of Kosovo and Metohija, and those temporarily displaced from their territories, therefore, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is indeed high time that the Ministers and Government were clearly and loudly told that they had no right to act as if they were sharing their fatherland when they were talking about budget funds. Dear gentlemen, they don't give anything to anyone. The National Assembly, your assembly majority, still brings budget rebalances, accepts Dinkic's surplus, which was created by paying taxes on bread, on milk, on children's food and on everything that makes life difficult for Serbian citizens. It is indeed high time for ministers, when they talk about it, to say: "Dear citizens, we have received power from the congregation's majority, and we have your resources as we have at our disposal, and you will decide in the next elections whether this is fair, fair, whether there is abuse, whether that is what Serbian citizens really need. We radicals argue that this is not the case, we argue that this budget rebalance is not good and therefore we will not vote for budget rebalance, convinced that most Serbian citizens will vote for Serbian radicals in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29414	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Any other MPs? (No) To Article 7. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29415	On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Section 6. Chapter 6.11, Function 110. The proposed amendment requires that the text proposed by the proposal: "Serbia's Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija" is changed and read "The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia". Most of the funds that have been identified, and it is proposed that for this service, Serbia's Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija totals 2954.331.000,00 dinars, are budget funds, and part of the funds provided for are donations from foreign countries, in particular, and donations from foreign countries are 74. 105,000 dinars. With that in mind, as well as the purpose of these funds, i.e. which was the work of this service that you formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia Regulation in 2006, the service would carry out professional tasks, administrative, information, financial and material, accounting and accompanying technical tasks for the Serbian Coordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's inappropriate to spend budgets, so you should focus them on the development fund. Also, we have been taught experience from a previous period, and here we are, since Sanda Raskovic-Ivić is head of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, no report has been submitted to the National Assembly today on the funds spent by the Kosovo Coordination Centre and the Metohija of the Republic of Serbia. Even when the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija requested a report on the spending of the funds that Nebojsa Covic then spent, even then the KIM Committee did not adopt such a report, until today. No spending report has been submitted for consideration to the Serbian Parliament. The funds spent through the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre were, as a rule, spent unintendedly and mainly in political, i.e. Pre-election activities behind political campaigns. This has been happening since the UNMIK elections, i.e. I mean parliamentary elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How have funds been spent for political and propaganda purposes to conduct elections? In such a way that they were to Serbia's electoral body for the province's elections held and scheduled by UNMIK, means for propaganda and other purposes, in order to convince Serbs that it is necessary to go to such organised elections organised by UNMIK in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The government is aware that employees of the local KIM self-government, whom 4.540, late salaries are back several years, are common practice, about 5-6 months, and do nothing about it, but there have always been promises that the dynamics of lagging salaries will speed up and that, allegedly, employees will receive all 12 salaries for a certain financial year. It is much better that you intend to define for this service of the Coordination Centre for Development, because you know yourself that the current situation in the economy is catastrophic and it is certain that it would help Serbs in KIM much better - through direct investment, jobs would be opened, and that would mean that if you talk about a return, it would be sustainable for both individual and family of expelled Serbs. For this reason, I propose to the MPs that they vote on the amendment I have tabled in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29416	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else report for the same amendment? (No) Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29417	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here we are today, MPs of the SRS, running a monologue, not having dialogue with the proposing representatives, which is unfortunate. I said yesterday, we are attending the twilight of parliamentaryism in Serbia because, through dialogue and through exchange of views, there are no quality solutions, but here, unfortunately, it is done and demonstrated a strange practice of parliamentary behaviour by and ruling parties, and indeed by representatives of the executive government. I don't know what kind of function these ladies have? Are they a stenographer or something? We have stenographers. I don't understand the function of these ladies. In that national debate, we said a few things - that we cannot vote for this budget rebalancing for purely principled reasons, not because we want to stop Parliament's work, to prevent the normal functioning of the state, but because of the huge shortcomings that this proposal contains. I'll just remind you that we've made it clear that there's no budget control at all. We can say that there is a legal chaos in this country, or anarchy, because the law on the state audit institution, which was passed a year ago, is not respected and is being passed. That's not allowed. Mr. Secretary has not given us an analysis of the budget's achievements so far. In the press, we read that a surplus has been achieved, so far 9.7 billion, and how else to throw up to 32 billion, as foreseen by the previous budget. We see that the full budget methodology for showing expenditure and income is changing, and we don't know why, we don't have clear explanations, nobody says why. We could talk forever. Of course, and that famous surplus. Mr Krasic clearly said what it means, I won't repeat it, it's a fictitious creation that has only one function. When we adopted the budget at the end of last year, the surplus had to serve only to pay off foreign debts. How's he soaked up? By cutting public spending, by denying the rights of sick people, by certain social categories, and that's clear. We boasted that we could portray 1.3 percent of gross incomes as a surplus, by breaking away from citizens' rights. It's a surplus function. The work of the previous budget adopted in this parliament is, in particular, just that – draining as much of the people as possible, to provide funds in funds, so that debts can be paid. And what is the function of this rebalancing, another addition – pre-election campaign. But whose? The parties in power. Then came the famous National Investment Program and the plan. I think that's quite clear today. The only question is which country we live in when there's no law and there's talk of law and institutions. Our country, unfortunately, is increasingly like a banana republic. That's what my predecessors were talking about. We have ministers who are falsely represented, who are not elected in this House and who represent our interests and interests of the state. Where's that? We have a president of the state who allows himself to send our soldiers to Afghanistan, and we expect Iraq to be the next stage. Apparently, we're fighting terrorism now. Of course, it's not peace missions, it's fighting missions. Once, when a Serb soldier went on missions to a foreign country, he went on peacekeeping missions and was welcome to both sides. The army has been destroyed and we've come to a point where we can't defend state sovereignty and territorial integrity, and we're going to fight for a handful of dollars and bleed for other people's interests. We can't defend our own, and we can't defend our own, but the interests of a big brother, who, behold, in a strange way, of course, makeup, we can get to know on the screens of a famous television, we can. Mr. Mircic submitted an amendment in front of the SRS, suggested that the decision be made in Article 7. The division of 7 functions of 310 economic classification 512" Machines and equipment", in column 6, replaces the amount "1.610.00.000" with "2.184,528.000", and replaces the economic classification "1.640.000,000" with "2.214.528.000". What does that mean? This division refers to the Ministry of the Interior. We're just asking that what's under section 551 and it's called the National Investment Plan, which is, in fact, the plans and programmes of the Ministry that are related to current investment maintenance and capital investment, is found in its right place, that a set of funds that are defined, to God, to the National Plan, to self-move and to be part of the plan and programme to distribute funds to the Ministry of the Interior. One interesting thing, when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior. Before 2000, it was said of Milosevic's regime as a police country, and at that time there were 20,000 police officers. We live in a democratic country today where there are 30,000. What's the police country now? Of course, there's been a rumor that crime is booming, corruption. Do crime and corruption bloom today?- I'm sorry. Well, then there were murders. And now it's not past weeks that we're not witnessing some shooting, again some strange groups, and despite having more officers, and we don't have a Kosovo problem and we can't use our officers in Kosovo to defend the Serb animal that's out there. We are, unfortunately, having a strange conversation in a strange parliament, where nothing suits us. I was free to say that this proposal for budget rebalancing, made up like this, is a disgrace to this Parliament. A man would say I'm a formalist, to resent something he shouldn't mind, but here you'll see such material wonders, of course, to which we won't be held accountable. So I don't mind getting into something that I don't understand and I don't know, I'm going to say health care, that's what I understand most about. Who's going to explain the health care notes to me? I asked why the contract services are getting more money now, and what does that mean? Budgetary funding for the Red Cross of Serbia has been allocated, and particularly in the ministry's articles is allocated to NGOs, and funds for NGOs are being allocated again at the Red Cross. You see NGOs in every department. What are NGOs, and they live off government, government money? They're state organizations if they're funded from here. Let go of that game and that non-governmental speech, and when money is needed, then we're government favorites. For example, there is a budget fund to prevent tobacco-induced diseases. Who knows what's going on here? In the previous draft budget, you have sources of funding and income from foreign borrowing, suddenly seven billion, and when we adopted the budget less than a year ago, there was one billion. What makes six billion difference? Explain that. Here's one galamatias, chaos, one false math. If I say it's fake, then it's still good for you, or it's a hoax. You don't give us explanations here, and then you leave room for our suspicions, and the worst. I explained yesterday, put in the National Plan to get a dialysis vehicle and an ambulance, 100 vehicles. I counted yesterday, and you say it wasn't obtained. I counted from the press about 260 cars. We hear yesterday at a press conference in the ER that it's Tamhaos, and chaos is in many Serbian health institutions today. They call from the ER, they keep asking for meetings with us, and they say they sold a Norwegian donation to emergency situations. So, you take help from the people, you sell it, and it's announced at a press conference, the unions speak. Who's going to explain these seven billion and what are they for? Two are major health problems in Serbia, cardiovascular diseases, cancer and cancer. That there's a fund to prevent these diseases, so I understand. We're underrated, and I'm thinking why Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is running out, maybe he's got state affairs, maybe he's got some obligations, I can understand that, but there's a deputy he can empower and he needs to sit here and answer. I don't know how many deputies he has, but he has the right to have someone explain it to us here. This gentleman simply disappears, because he has nothing to say, and he knows that, unfortunately, the mechanism they have been serving so far, it is the unprincipled coalition that is being ruled today in this Parliament, and to the gods and in Serbia, all that is given here will be voted upon, even if it is to the shame of this Parliament and of our people. The policy led by Minister Dinkic is not good. It is harmful to the people of Serbia, and it should be said, it is in the interest of a foreign factor, I don't know which. I'm not even getting into it. Ask small businessmen how the tax is collected and the harrases destroy the economy! Small entrepreneurs can't work normally if they want to settle tax obligations. Now comes some kind of asset review. Who are they questioning? Political insinuators have started honest doctors calling for talks and a check on the property situation. It was supposed to come from the Minister of Health, from me, from the people who sit here, not from the honest world to whom they now carry out the obvious intimidation. I have to say it, and I owe it to the citizens because they're warning me about it. Retaliation is being administered to small businesses, to small craftsmen. Because when you punish someone for a violation, it's okay, but when you close his shop and he can't get the money, it's payback, it's pure fascism and Nazism, in the service of a new international order. That's quite clear. Therefore, we radicals will not vote for this, and I suggest you adopt our amendment. Of course, I know you won't do it, but it goes on your conscience again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29418	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) To Article 7. Section 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29419	Mr. Mihailovic, I will begin with a word of advice to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can immediately check what it was like on this, whatever it was, congress or counseling a tourist inspection on the Kopalnik. There were all drivers from the Serbian Movement and representatives of the executive board and so on. Ah, tourist inspection unequipped. There, you can see why Vuku Draskovic is important to be a minister even though he is not elected. Now, Mr. Dragan Zivkov has submitted an amendment to this Article 7, but this is one omnibus member in which the "excel" presented all the data on expenditures by all economic classifications, and this division 8 refers to the Ministry of Finance. Those who defend this bill in front of the National Assembly may not be familiar with the details of the items when it comes to some other ministries and some others, but with division 8 are likely to be one hundred percent familiar. In that section, there is a 090 function, which is at the beginning of this page under regular number 19, where donations and transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations are planned at 96.5, I think this is billions. Mr. Zivkov is asking for this to increase to 106.5 billion, and that is the space created by our amendment to Article 1. We've come up with a bill of law this morning and started this debate, and, of course, to carry out this amendment in column 8. The funds of this 90 billion budget grant should be transferred to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, four comas a little billion for the Republic Pension Insurance Fund of Farmers and 11.5 billion for the National Employment Service. This amendment has been legally done exactly as the Budgetary System Act foresees, to make sure that what is taken away in one place, in another place, is balanced by the income plan and the expenditure plan. So if there are funds, if there is a surplus, then the surplus should be employed for these purposes, because there is a permanent deficit in the mandatory insurance funds. The reason is that liabilities and contributions cannot provide funds for the regular operation of these funds, and the state has an obligation, since it is guaranteed, to transfer its funds from the budget and ensure that all these payments are paid neatly. With these additional resources, you can also think about any increase in the amount of all these donations. Of course, the government does not accept this because their plan is not to improve the material position of social categories of the population. You had the opportunity to hear at the beginning of the debate that the government's representative is proud that this budget is not social, but developmental. I would go back a little bit to the disintegration of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was planned in 2003, when the famous Belgrade Agreement was made and when the Constitutional Charter of the State Community was adopted. One member was given the right, or the possibility of Montenegro leaving the state community through a referendum. Of course, they used it with the help of the European Union and others. They went out, and some here, in this assembly, were looking forward to it, say -- finally, Serbia alone. Those who were looking forward to it were probably looking forward to getting a plane service. This is within Section 6, within 6.12, in this position 460. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that this year the airline costs 140m dinars and a few million dinars. The resources of this service are, not only maintenance costs, but travel costs, because we have very live diplomatic activity. It has to jump to Washington to sign an agreement that would make it known that for NATO integration, we are going to shut down our army by system, and it is coming down materially and morally, with every move and every movement, and from 2001 to today. Just to remind you that several sound names were in place during this period, one of them is the current president of the Republic of Serbia, who has introduced all possible spy services into the ministry. His advisor was a man who didn't even serve the army. Well, that's where the ballerinas are now. And one of those ministers was also Mr Davinic, he was known not only for the affair, which they say someone set up for him, but also for knowing very well what happened in the territory of the former Yugoslavia during the armed conflicts, and even boasting that he had all these reports on the table as a United Nations official, that he knew the truth but that he must not declare to the public, because he received a pension from the United Nations and was obliged to keep quiet and not even in memoirs to state what he knew, and at that time he was also a minister, so he was not allowed to talk. So he knows Serbs aren't guilty, but he has to keep his mouth shut and hide. Now, you see, that's the way this airline is going to cost us so much what the President, the Prime Minister and the rest of the world's passengers get on these trips, not just a warrant, but to get modern knowledge of how to convince the citizens that what's hard on them, that's better for them to make peace with their destiny. I'm just surprised you didn't plan the National Investment Plan as part of the Air Service. I see you've put the National Investment Plan all over the place. I think it's important here, too. I see there are some other expenditures in this service. I may be reading the numbers badly, but I can see from the airline that it's going to cost us six billion and something. It's not 140 but six billion 358 million 35,809 dinars. I think everyone in this country is interested in what costs six billion, five and 380, I apologize, they're small numbers. How can a five billion air force spend a day? You didn't plan on buying any new planes because these guys don't want to ride old planes? Please, here's a call to our dear journalists, let them investigate, it's investigative journalism. Why is five and a half billion needed for the air force? That's a nice idea. Not to compare these five and a half billion with what Mr. Paja Momchilov used to say before me, how many ambulances were there, how many beds, how many cheaper drugs, better healthcare workers' salaries, not to mention those figures. We can do a very nice analysis, because this big book contains the financial plans of mandatory social insurance organisations. Take five and a few billion and put your finger on any position of these financial plans, and see if that can be any proportion to mental. I'm not talking about material, I'm talking about mental. The national investment plan is the police. So only after extra income does our police get new vehicles. There were over 120,000 cops first. When they came to power, they said only 18,000, and we think 25,000 is an optimal number. Meanwhile, the border service has also moved into civil structures. Just to remind the public, don't forget, since we watched on TV a democratic block where they accuse each other of the Lutra thing about the issue of ID cards. It's not all a solution. None of that is the answer. It's still standing open. So it'll be nice when someone else comes to power, because the obabloc can call in the SUP and say, "Come on now, prove what you said." Let me remind you, there's been a purchase of the vehicles of "pezo" and "punto". When? Since the kidnapping issue was resolved, then it was an organization, I think, and some weren't new, but three years old, but they're new because they've been on the payroll for three years, whether in Turkey, whether in Italy, who knows where. It was a little unintentional, so some of them talked on those charts. You remember Ksenija and Gorana as they drew the Lutru, so this, well, connected, etc. Just to remind you that it hasn't been discussed yet, and it would be good for you to discuss it before you leave power, who knows how they'll argue after you. So there's so much resources to spill over, and since it's spilling, let's spend it where we get it, but not where we can raise the standard of citizens, to allow as few people to suffer the consequences of a painful tradition. There's a large number of losers in the transition, they're SRS voters. They chose it right, they chose it smartly. The winners of the transition vote for the democratic bloc. What do you think they're voting for a democratic bloc for? Because the Immocratic bloc allows for profit in transition. It is very simple to conclude that every citizen, when he goes to the polls for any choice, when he takes a pen, will say whether he is in the winners or in the losers. If he's in the winners, he votes for the democratic bloc, if he's in the losers, there's no one else to vote for except the SRS. These extra-parliamentary and those who act as opposition, and continue to pave and are not under the obligation of the ministries to restrict them, are obviously coalition partners. You'll have to finish it yourself. Where ministers, like Santa Clauses, share transfer funds, so they want to be covered by the previous law, to make it deliberate, to take care of everything, they are the coalition partners of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, after today's debate, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to understand that the budget is full of money, but they don't give it to the people. They want to travel, to boast about statistics. You remember yourself, a few months ago, when there was a speech about whether this IMF audit would be recognised, did we do everything the IMF said, then there was a huge objection to the Vladi making a lot of transfers of funds to compulsory insurance. It's got to be done somehow. How do you fix it? Gordana Matkovic remembered to pass a new law, which, Maltene, abolished pensions. She introduced a new way of calculating pensions. She was the first stage, she ran away, when I saw her the other day coming to these talks about Kosovo and Metohija, I immediately understood what was coming and what was going to happen. Then came the second stage. They're pressing us, we're under pressure, we can't, etc. To make that clear, Mr. Zivkov submitted the amendment and said, "This surplus of six billion is directed towards pensioners, health care, unemployed people, etc." The government stands firm in its positions and says - no, no for pensioners, no for unemployed, no for health care. It's for the air force, for the John who's supposed to go around the world, to capitulate in every place. That's the message. We'll take the item by item, then we'll repeat the material.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29420	Anyone else want a word? (No) To Article 7. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 7. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29421	Ladies and gentlemen, I read, first, the amendment: "In Article 7, Section 8 of Chapter 8.1 of function 110, economic classification 511 - "Builds and construction buildings" in column 6, the amount "334,000" is replaced by "475,950,000", in column 8 - the amount "334,000" is replaced by "475,950,000". In the economic classification 512 " Machines and Equipment", the amount in column 6 - "300,000" is replaced by "334,000", in column 8 - the amount "786.175.849" is replaced by "820.175.849", and the economic classification 551 is deleted. “ As explained, the National Investment Fund we are talking about these days, from which you are making a campaign, is a big scam by Mladjan Dinkic and is exclusively intended for marketing parties G17 plus, since there are no real investments. I'm gonna talk a little retroactively about some other stuff, so we're gonna go back to what I just said. You, as is known, were the first to punish pensioners upon the arrival of the Dosmanian government after October 5th. You cut people's pensions and they have nothing to live on. You tried to destroy their pride and dignity, and somehow you did it. You've fired a lot of people with 20 and 30 years of employment, you've disbanded companies, and now these people have nowhere to work. Serbia is full of such people. We have over 800,000 employees since you came to power. It's not right to brag about a surplus, talk about it all the time, because the point is how it came about. The surplus came from taxes, new taxes that came and filled the budget. That's why it's now time, in the SRS' opinion, that the money is returned to the people who paid for it. The fact is that Serbia doesn't have a strategy for long-term economic development, a national strategy, or, as Mr Krasic said, once something was planned and knew what could be where and what could not be. Now everything is being done chaoticly, as one or two people in Serbia want. Also, Serbia does not have a competitive economy and it is familiar to all of us. Production in all of Serbia is dropping, unemployment is increasing, I said how much, and investment is zero, stagnating and dropping, while external debt is increasing. One of the basic characteristics of the economic situation in Serbia is the decline in investment of production growth and unemployment growth. Serbia and I are squirming with it in countless other difficulties, which your macroeconomic stability policy will not solve. That's what it turned out to be. If you could have solved it, you'd have solved it in the past six years. On the contrary, it is even more restrictive today's policy and fiscal policy, which causes an even greater drop in production and an increase in unemployment. Under the conditions of the drop in production, even if there is no policy of a marked exchange rate, dinar depression will not increase exports to a significant extent, as under conditions of decline of production there are fewer products that could be exported. You don't think about it at all. The current balance of payments deficit must again be covered by new foreign duties and will only deteriorate further. In late 2005, the external debt amounted to about $7 billion, and now it is around 17 billion, it will continue to grow, unfortunately. The growth of the gross domestic product, for which you stand, is based mainly on the increase in the value of trade and services, as well as on the increase, i.e. the calculated additional value, on the legalisation of the part of the grey economy. Growth in gross domestic production is shown not to be based on investment and production growth, but is a logical consequence of restrictive macroeconomic, credit and monetary and fiscal policies. The liberalisation that you've been conducting here, which we've been fighting since we've been in this congregation, importing and a great appreciation of dinars, donations and increased borrowing that you do non-stop abroad, have made services, and in particular trade, not industrial production and agriculture, participate in the growth of domestic products. The purchasing power of the population, which was based mainly on the donations and loans you've been raising and thus borrowing us, even though you've been constantly advertising to write off our debts, can be said that when they write off our debts, debts are growing and higher, it was aimed at buying cheaper products. The consequences of this have been reflected in the increase in external debt, as well as the external trade deficit, the reduction of domestic production, due to purchases of these cheaper products, which, we return to the beginning, leads to an increase in unemployment. All citizens in Serbia feel that way about their skin, unless they see "the public service of European Serbia", a lie, RTS, knows the situation is disastrous. When you turn on the TV, honey and milk flow. Unfortunately, who lives in Serbia knows it's not like that and you're free of what you're doing. From the surplus that exists should be reduced debt, as they did in Russia, and we now owe more than before and, when I say so, it's not little, it's much. Experiences from some countries in the transition show that they have begun economic growth by freeing themselves from the supervision of the International Monetary Fund, by adopting a developmental definition of the economy. You don't do it and you don't even plan on doing it. The case proved to be valid in Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Romania and in other transition countries. The national long-term economic development strategy, which will be the basis for the country's overall strategic definitions, should be adopted first. There is also a question that is asked - is it possible that our Serbia is so unconscious that it needs someone else to keep telling us what to do and what not to do? It is constantly said that we are forced to restructure public enterprises and other things, and I agree with that, but it should only be done when production is activated in Serbia and when 134,000 employees in public enterprises are taken care of, because they will run out of work, in addition to the unemployment rate that now stands at over 30% in Serbia. So that should be done when they can find a job in new production. If this is done so quickly, within the deadlines that you set for us, only more will increase the unemployment rate and reduce production, which Serbian citizens are most afraid of. None of the problems we have today -- balance of payments, deficits, unemployment, decline in production -- can be solved without new investments. In doing so, safety should be taken into account from the acceleration of the inflation spiral. However, your current measures and fiscal policy are so restrictive that a billion-euro investment cannot possibly increase inflation more than it is now. National investment plans should be praised for stemming from the long-term economic development strategy, and you do not think about it, and should be defined as the most profitable private sectors, and then fully focused on the development of these sectors. In addition, since you are constantly calling for other people's experiences, why not use experience, past, highly developed economies and their markets and countries that have been in transition, as well as similar experiences of newly industrialised countries from the period of very rapid growth in the '70s and 80s. All these countries have come to liberalise foreign trade, privatise, join the globalisation process. Yet, they did not do so by the method of shock therapy, firing their citizens from work. Their experiences point to the fact that, during the period of development, countries play a major role and should lead, to determine developmental macroeconomic and foreign trade policies, by regulating investment activities. What do we have now? Mr. Paja spoke earlier about how they felt and how today's businesses in Serbia are doing, small businesses. Anyone who's had contact with you, God forbid you bring up Young Dinkic or G17 plus, he gets a nervous breakdown. If they asked the businessmen today to point out the five biggest problems affecting Serbian businesses, 95% would place them first or second -- the level of outstanding claims from their customers, i.e. the problems with maintaining the current liquidity. In order to solve the problems they have, and you all know they have it, that's a fact, every firm can try to borrow from a bank, while banks solve their problems by taking credit from some other bank in the country and abroad. I can say that it's more treatable than the disease itself, because taking unfavourable loans, we all know what they are, an unequivocal enterprise is getting into even more difficult problems, because short-term bank loans are extremely expensive. Some favourable loans exist in state funds, but it is hard to get them if you are not in the mercy of certain people, above all, Mladjan Dinkic and others, we have proven this several times. The way to solve this is to make a strategy and finally make the money you took from the taxpayers. We have situations where local self-government is much more concerned, trying to avoid this imposed solution by the state, so they're setting up funds. It is known to me, for example, that there are them in Kickinda, in Vrsac, from which I come, and that exists, most likely, in other local environments. They account for 15 to 60 million dinars and, along with banks, help small businesses reach capital that can do something, but under more favourable conditions, not bank conditions. That's one shot. Such solutions should stimulate the state, not local self-government. Unfortunately, local self-government and businessmen are left to themselves, small businesses, farmers, at the mercy of the state. It's a real situation right now in Serbia, it's a fact. You can record new journals and I don't know which newspapers to pay for and what you're doing, but the facts tell you differently and you're free of everything you're trying to make beautiful. We can't say that we're against an investment national program, but we're against certain powermakers from G17 plus sharing money according to their own opinion to their party friends, to pave the way for a few streets in a city and a village, and our economy stands and looms. Gentlemen, if you understood that, you'd probably bring it in, so you'll be here for another day or two and thank God we'll never see you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29422	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Section 8 of the amendments was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted the following amendment: "Article 7. Section 8 of Chapter 8.2, function 110 - economic classification 511 "Builds and construction facilities", in column 6, the amount "308.500,000" is replaced by "642,382,000", and in column 8, the amount "341,842,472" is replaced by "675,724,472" by "dear, and the economic classification 551 is deleted. “ The amendment refers to a division within the Ministry of Finance, and I must, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, state what the Ministry of Finance is in the framework of the Republic of Serbia’s budget, or what is financed by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's one galamatias, half of the Serbian government, watching everything that's made up and what's coming into the finance ministry. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, with a huge number of employees, ministers, deputies, state secretary, according to the Law on State Administration, the Ministry of Customs, Tax Administration, Treasury Administration, Games Management, Youth Fund, Tobacco Management, Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Audit Office, Free Zones Administration. It's all tolling the Ministry of Finance. When it comes to the real situation in the state of Serbia when it comes to finance, when it comes to these areas covered by certain administrations or inspectorates, Serbian citizens can clearly see who is responsible for this chaotic situation in the state of Serbia. When it comes to trying to get through this ministry, starting with the Ministry itself, the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration, certain funds from this National Investment Fund are provided for buildings, business space, for adaptations, reconstructions, for molar-farbar works, when all of this is seen through the amendment and addition of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, as well as non-financial assets financed from the National Investment Plan, which is 33,031.890,000 dinars, it is logical that I have suggested that this appropration, or paragraph 551, be deleted with that amount of 33,031,890,000 dinar. It is incomprehensible that the National Investment Plan should contain these items and expenditures, and that there is no suggestion that the funds that are reportedly foreseen for the National Investment Plan are defined for purposes much more important for the citizens of Serbia, for most of the citizens who are jobless, for the good part of which the social needs are. Is it possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister to propose that, through this change and the addition of the 2006 budget, a total of 900 million dinars be allocated?- I'm sorry. I said what amount this is for buildings, business space within the administration of the Republic of Serbia. There is no Minister Dinkic here to answer whether the oil is cheap, but rather that he suggested that the peasants no longer have guns in the field, as the shameful commercial by Meridian Bank, where Kraljević Marko, presented as a Serbian hero, says that if the villagers have a dinar, they invest it with the bank, led by people such as the former finance minister, Dinkic's predecessor, Djelic, as executive director, and adviser to the bank Vlahovic. I would recommend that Meridian Bank, as well as Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, return the business space from the Polish Transport Company in the Kingdom, in which there was a house for the supply of peasants with seed goods, protection funds, 400 square squares area, which was taken at a cost, and leave it to remain a place where peasants from the Kingdom Municipality will be able to supply themselves with what they need, in order to survive difficult times, in which they came not by their own fault but thanks to that previous government of DOS and now to the government of the democratic bloc. When it comes to the second part of the National Investment Plan, what the hereministers said and others, about those 2,000 projects that have reportedly already arrived at the Ministry of Finance, are likely to have something from the Kingdom municipality, but these are the projects of some local communities. However, whether Minister Dinkic knows whether the government of the Republic of Serbia knows that the councils of local communities in the municipality of Kraljenelegitim, irregular, illegal for two years now, because elections have not been called, the mandate of these councils expired two years ago. The former president of the Kraljevo municipality did not propose SO Kraljevo to discuss these elections, nor did the president who took office, from New Serbia, who was promoted by Velja Ilic in January, in February of this year; for eight months they have not discussed the elections for the councils of the local communities. It's just talking about the seriousness of what's going on around this so-called. The national investment plan, which is trying to deceive citizens across Serbia, and for the local elections coming on Sunday (October 1st), and for a certain parliamentary election in several months. But Serbia's citizens will not be deceived, they recognise the execution of the democratic bloc's authorities headed by Vojislav Kostunica and all his ministers, as they do and how they humiliate Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29424	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) To Article 7. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 7. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29425	We are simply asking this amendment to redistribute the economic classifications in the context of the expenditure item or, to be precise, that this economic classification of 621 be increased by almost a billion dinars. The funds would be provided under the same heading, under an economic classification relating to the National Investment Plan. It's a classification of 621, excuse me, not - 551. Because of the stenogram that you know, errors, due to these tiny numbers, within function 180. What's this about? So, we propose adding 425 million dinars to the text in the context of the reasoning of this economic classification, aimed at attracting direct investment to encourage job creation and equating development. The amount of 510 million dinars is intended to credit exports. We, for that part, are about 935 million dinars, for that amount we reduce the funding of the National Investment Plan within the division relating to the Ministry of Finance. Part of the funds is intended for residential lending, then for insurance of housing loans, as well as for the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. We have chosen these positions, they are already in the current budget, he is in effect, although we have given up our court in the adoption of the Law on the National Corporate Insurance of Residential Credits. At the time, there was talk of how much the state's funds invested as founding capital, and how much money it placed. You remember that the law was changed once or twice, so the ability to place is increased to, I think, six times the amount of the founding capital. I may have made a mistake, it may not be six times, it may be three times, but I know it was an amendment to that law. In practice, it has proved to be mainly the means for the chosen, but today we have a major problem in the country in this regard. It would be good for people working on the Serbian Constitution draft to take advantage of some experience and provisions of the Constitution of Italy. It is probably one of the few constitutions in Europe that in the provisions on basic human rights, or the rights and duties of a man, a citizen, has the provision to guarantee and guarantee every citizen of Italy the right to an apartment. The wording itself does not touch any property question, or how it is obtained, or anything else. It gives the state space to run housing policy in a way that virtually no family can be without an apartment. How it will use that apartment is already another question that will be regulated in an appropriate way. We have a large number of citizens, or, let me say, a special category of citizens who work in public services and in the institutions of state authorities, who are significant for the functioning of the state, are forced to move, so the majority are in a situation to live as a tenant or as a tenant. The reason is that the state does not have a housing fund from which it could place official dwellings for temporary use while employed in a working relationship, while performing the function. Because you'll agree with me, sometimes this profession was tempting because people knew that they had a settled housing issue by status. Then the state had a stable development and some guarantee to fulfill the military's function. Today, you have no military persons without apartments, you have state officials without apartments, especially after this decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides a provision for a regulation on the resolution of the housing needs of state-run employees put out of force. The question is, how are you going to solve this problem, before there is a provision that if an apartment is given - it is for a certain time up to five years, and then tie the cat to the tail of that living list, because the further stay in that apartment in a leased relationship depends on the attitude of the housing commission. One is status while the man is in labor, and the other is when he is in preparation for the future status of pensioners. We shouldn't let people in the state service retire without having a settled housing issue. Then you really ask a legitimate question and doubt - how he could do his job if he had to solve his relevant problems in another way. Here I took only one problem of building and assigning apartments, i.e. solving the housing needs of citizens, although we still have an incomparably greater number of housing units than the number of families. I don't know if it's one and a half times as many, but I know we have more of those housing units. So we have a large number of citizens without a settled housing issue, and this idea of buying apartments or financing the construction of their apartment, that someone for the amount of rent can buy out on the wars of the apartment, just sounds nice. In practice, it's only possible for these yuppies, as we call them, these homeless people, although I can see that they're fired too, they're expelled from work, because they're unstable. We need to have a clear housing policy. I fully agree that there should be much more elements of the market economy than the classical sociale, but we probably have some apartments to solve the housing issues of a socially unsettled family. We can't say - we don't care, now the circumstances have changed, if he lives in a cardboard box, if he's here, if he's there. We didn't want to touch that part of you in the draft budget, because we're counting on that attitude to change in practice. In practice, it is about so that whoever is financially able, he can sort of solve the question, if he is close to someone who has these means, then he certainly solves it, if he gets into some small problems, then Mr. Dinkic will say, to all those who have less than five years of employment -- 60% will increase their pay. Now we've closed this story about these increases. If so, then the question is really why not raise the salaries of private employees and take taxes from them? Why don't you fight for strict respect for the collective contract in the salary section? No, you just think it's a matter of interest. At the very end, we have transferred some 900 million dinars to these, if I may say so, dedicatedly defined positions, with a positive objective that we want to achieve with this redistribution of funds. I don't think it's a problem for the assembly majority to accept this amendment, because that's not a budget disturbance, because we're not touching revenues, but only within the same section we're redeploying some expenditure, we're channelling funds towards something that we think is of primary importance at this point, compared to what the government has proposed in this budget rebalancing for 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29426	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29427	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding Mr. Krasic's amendment, let me just say a few things. The national investment plan, among other things, includes the construction of 400-500 apartments for civil servants. That can't be bad. What is as bad as the concept in the country, it is that there is no currently reliable way for someone who wants to form a family, or who has formed a family, and for several years a homeless person, who lives in private, to get to the apartment, because everything he could invest in upgrading his own family, in education, in standard, has to pay as a rent. So it's not systemically solved this question. As you can see, no one here mentions flats for workers. It may sound like a demagogue, but let it be a matter of assessing those who listen to this. Workers voluntarily gave up this right by voting for parties whose this is not a concept. I point out many times, it is not possible to vote for right-wing political organisations and to seek left-wing solutions in the laws. It is a matter of political will, concept, issue of political consensus, etc. There was an idea here that through a loan, through a housing agency or in some other way, it would allow a number of people to get an apartment, but it's obviously not far away. Even what we used to call, first, the apartments of solidarity, and then the apartments of the Solidarity Building Fund, since it's not the same, because these are being paid off, are today covering so-called. housing agencies in local self-government. I have to say it works very badly, or it doesn't work at all. So if we really want to, I'm very serious, help someone form a family and its existence isn't compromised, then we'd have to come up with a way to help these people, because a man without a roof over his head is not a man of dignity. In a situation where every time your baby cries, or when someone breaks something in someone else's apartment, or something like that, someone can fire you, then you practically have no energy for anything but thinking about just getting an opportunity to sleep somewhere with your family. It is a broad theme and a big story and it would not be covered by this entire budget, nor by the National Investment Plan and Programme, etc. As for what Mr Krasic was talking about, that in Serbia there are more housing units than families, it is true, but unfortunately it is not possible to nationalise, nor can anyone seriously suggest it. Once again, I was already talking about when the debate was in principle, it really happened that, in the event of a natural disaster, a flood in Banat, first of all, in these few places that were the worst, for reasons that I don't understand, someone made 25 houses for non-existent people. I ask for your support, if this parliament survives this extraordinary session, so we enter regularly, when a session is held on the agenda, to form a survey committee and find out how it was possible for someone to build 25 houses without knowing that there is no one who has lived there before. So that's the fact that these houses exist there today. It would be my pleasure, if I were to receive your support, to participate together in the work of this committee of inquiry, because it is a major financial asset. Of course, we can move into those homes of people who are displaced persons, who are refugees, internally displaced, social cases, it's nothing controversial, it's just how controversial it is that something like that can happen in a serious state. You know, when someone makes the most elementary building in the village, he knows why it's real. So we're going to ask the exact answer to this question, because I have the impression that it wasn't a good intention here, it was something else entirely. Let me explain, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, it was that some people, in honor of the word, say, "I really lived in this village, the water took my house, please, make me a house," and the government of the Republic of Serbia built a house, and so 25 times. It's not normal, it's completely non-serious, not to say it enters the sphere of criminal responsibility. Thank you. There will be an opportunity to submit this as an initiative at a regular session and I would like to ask for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29428	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Split 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Split 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Section 11, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29429	In Article 7. Section 11, Function 420, economic classification 451 speaks about the distribution of funds to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. This is a very interesting budget imbalance, given the fact that government representatives, not only now and not only of this rebalancing, but three years of praise for how much they invested in agriculture, how much funding is foreseen for agriculture, so they praise each other with the larger agricultural budget, the agrarian budget, as they call it. Now, in this part alone and later, through the other amendments relating to this division, we will show the citizens of Serbia that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cares about agriculture. Of course, we in the SRS have our doubts about the availability of funds by the Ministry of Agriculture, and not just now, we've said that before. First of all, we talked about this at a time when the minister of agriculture, water and forestry was Mrs. Dulic, who today is Vice-President of Vojislav Kostunica in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we are extending this suspicion because whoever inherited Mrs. Dulic in the government, as Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, a man who was her very close associate at the ministry, seems to me to be a deputy, you are now calling it the State Secretary, who immediately after his appointment to that post, informed the public that he would continue where Mrs. Dulic stopped. I understand that from their point of view, these are representatives of the same political party, members of the same government, and it is perfectly understandable that they are doing the same thing, that one of us continues where the other left off, but that is why we in the SRS no longer believe in their good intentions, because we know what the citizens of Serbia know. Most of the time, we learn a lot from the citizens of Serbia. In agriculture, this government of government has not done anything to farmers, to people who are involved in food production, to improve agricultural conditions and life in any way. There was a lot of talk and boasting about the loans for farmers, and we all know that we talked more than once from this place about how these loans were shared, who was getting those loans, who needed someone close to get a loan, which political party had to join a peasant to get a loan. Here we spoke and showed evidence that some close associates of Minister Ivana Dulic, at the time of the minister, were receiving grants, or their companies. The gentleman who got that loan is today an MP in that parliamentary group. It's all something that we Serbian radicals, the public of Serbia, have been informing and we will keep it up to date. Now I'd like to say something about this section 11 and this part we've submitted the amendment to. In the part of the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, in Section 11 of Functions 420, the economic classification 451, this economic classification means subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed an amount of 10,557,746,000 dinars, and we propose that the amount be replaced by 15,557,746,000 dinars. In column 8, representing the total assets in this part, we propose to replace the amount of 10,716,684,778 dinars with 15. 716. 684,778 dinars. In order for the public to know what we're actually talking about, that needs to be explained. Because when you read it this way, it remains unclear, as remains unclear to the people who follow the work of this Parliament, or directly from here, or through the media, when the finance minister comes out, so when he reads some big figures, he still says what these figures are for, billions of dinars, intended to do. Then someone can think, here, this government really takes care of the people, of the citizens of Serbia. We prove that's not true. I'm going to comment on some more of these economic classifications within this function and division, something that is interesting to the public of Serbia. Yesterday, counterpart Zoran Krasic said that today we will inform Serbian citizens and explain to them how the government of Vojislav Kostunica spends their money, how it travels, for which money, just of course, we don't know which relations it travels on and what intentions and what jobs end on such trips. In this section we have the permanent costs of the Ministry of Agriculture, of course, before that are salaries, social contributions, compensation in nature, social benefits for employees, remuneration for employees, rewards, bonuses and other expenses. It's something we haven't commented on, because someone who's employed at the Ministry of Agriculture, or anywhere else, must be paid a salary, certain contributions must be paid. Is this to the extent that we, the Serbian radicals, would do so, is already the issue of this government's assessment of Serbian citizens. Very soon, Serbian citizens will give their assessment of it, but in the next elections. It is interesting that, in addition to all these concrete items, we have something called fixed costs, which is 13.952,000, these are budget funds. Then we have that total of 19,302,000. So the difference from 5,350,000 comes from somewhere. I wish there was a minister, to tell us where anyone has an interest, and what an interest, in this way, conditionally speaking, 'helps our agriculture'. Then we have travel costs, 6,500,000 are travel costs from the budget. There is still 11,320,000 from somewhere, and then travel costs under the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry amount to 17.820,000 dinars. I ask and I raise my open suspicion that these travel costs may not be financed by the company Monsato? It is the company that Ivana Dulic regularly enters with her friend Aleksandra Makaj, where the imports from and in a magical way in our production introduces genetically modified organisms. I really couldn't find any other logical explanation for the cost of travel to the Ministry of Agriculture, or to some people from that ministry, to give that kind of money. In addition, we have contract services, it costs 11.201,000 from the budget, and then again 17,139,630 dinars – 28,340,630 dinars. In addition to these services under contract, there are also some specialized services. I do not know what it is. It costs citizens of Serbia 2 million from the budget, and then somehow another 3.5 million, sorry, special services cost 3 million and 3.5 million more -- a total of 6.5 million dinars. There are current repairs, maintenance, etc. – that is 6,350,000, so from somewhere you get 7,400,000 – a total of 13,750,000. I've expressed my suspicion that it's a "Monsato", or something like that, bilobi, of course, very bad, because we're still struggling with these genetically modified products, soybeans, first of all, that's sown in the fields of Serbia, and then all the newspapers go down on that farmer over there, some farmer who sowed it, they all write about it, and then the minister, the ministry, wash their hands. They have no idea where that hillbilly from Whispers has tied that genetically modified soybeans, or soybeans, to that soybeans. No one will say Ivana Dulic Markovic did. If these funds, not all of them, but those that do not go directly from the budget, are obtained, or if they are classified from some loans, it is again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. I have already said, and I repeat now, that the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have no right and must not, when they distribute funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, say - we give for agriculture, we give for this, we give for it. They don't give for anything, it's the money of Serbian citizens. This middle figure I was just reading is also the money of Serbian citizens, if it's loans, because taking some credit to get someone from the ministry to travel almost 19 million dinars, it's really inadmissible. In doing so, we don't know what they're doing in this white world, what they did specifically to make Serbian citizens live better, or what they did specifically, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, that our peasant finally begins to live better. The minister will probably be here about 17 hours and 30 minutes to introduce himself to the citizens in advance with a well-prepared story. He can boast as much as he wants, but people know how they live, peasants know that no government has ever been worse than this and, at all, these powers since 2000. Of course, we know that citizens will know that they appreciate it. I've received some documentation from the Žabari municipality, where the elections are on October 1st, and there's, by the way, a very strange coalition in power, I'm not going to mention it now, I'm not going to challenge the replicas, because I want to speak in principle. It is that the construction of some wells, Simic's well and Alexandrovac, were started there to take samples of drinking water from these wells and that, under number 308, the Institute for Health Protection of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic-Batut", the Centre for Water, was given the opinion that they were not meeting the requirements laid down by the Regulation on the hygiene of drinking water. Regardless, therefore, fully consciously and deliberately, they poison the people of Žabara, and these jobs continue to receive certain funding from the budget, and the ultimate goal is actually an election campaign in the Municipality of Žabari. Since we Serbian radicals have election campaigns in all municipalities where local elections are held, I call on citizens of Gornji Milanovac and Leskovec to come to the centre of their cities today at 18 o'clock, to attend the large myths of the SRS, and to meet people who will manage their money locally, rather than how the government of the Republic of Serbia does it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29430	Anyone else want a word? (No) To Article 7. Section 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milorad Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another in a series of amendments in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Based on the report submitted by the minister from the famous G16-minus parliamentary group, we have seen that he submitted to us the National Investment Plan, a plan in which the main item or the main story is a surplus and therefore we now have a agenda point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. I submitted the amendment, as colleagues from the ruling coalition said -- you from the Radical Party, when budget rebalances, always increase items. Normally, we're going to increase the items, because you keep saying that the surplus is about 15.5 billion surpluses in the budget, so logically, the lady in the area of agriculture is taking special care of agriculture. So I suggest you be in Article 7. Section 11 of function 420, economic classification 511 – "Builds and construction buildings", in column 6, amounting to 9,000,000 dinars with a replacement of 1.283,798,000, and in column 8, the amount of 9,000,000 is replaced by 1.283,798,000. The amount of 1.274,798,000 dinars is intended for reconstruction and construction of capital facilities in agriculture, and the funds will be spent under a special programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the G16 minus. Therefore, to make this national investment plan more complete has a single positive feature - it will be difficult for me to list all the negatives that have occurred in the ministry since this government, headed by, first, Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic and then Goran Knezevic. I'll start with short and long-term loans. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I can't help but touch them, for the simple reason we had that famous story from the Ministry of Agriculture about the registration of agricultural holdings, because it's in our interest, because it's wanted by Europe etc. And, of course, the air farmers accepted that. Since we have 750,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia, about 200,000 of them have been registered. No one's got the exact number yet who got the short-term loans, like the short-term ones who got them, by name and last name, and we've never received any grants before. We tried, not once, but at every session of the Committee on Agriculture, chaired by Dr Mašić of the SRS, whose member I am, to get the names and last names of those who received short and long-term loans, however, we did not reach them. We have come up with interesting documentation, what has been sought so many times, and this is the documents about Mr. Sasa Vitosevic, who received 13.5 million dinars of credit, to see what he invested that money in. The answer is the document we got, by chance, from someone from the government. Since November 2004. By 1 November 2005, the Veterinary Administration approved a total of 2,485 heifers originating in the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. The requirements for imports have been filed by ten different legal entities and so far imports of 2,175 greaves, which are located in 114 locations in registered facilities. According to the Veterinary Administration, led by Dr Krnjajic, Mr. Saša Vitosevic, member of G16 minus, is a representative of the minority owner of the company that received a loan of 13.5 million, the firm Velvet Farm, Machine bb, Curug. The company realised the import of 297 heifers originating in Germany and they are located in the property "Velvet Farm" Livade bb, Curug. Quarantine for the first realized shipment of 132 rock heifers has been completed, while for the second shipment of 165 heifers quarantine has just begun and diagnostic tests are under way. It is said that during diagnostic studies at the Novi Sad Scientific Institute of Veterinary at the time of quarantine, about ten throats were suspected of fever, which is dangerous for humans as well. Blood samples have been re-tested and superanalysed in the labs of the team and team, Novi Sad, normal, and the Faculty of Medicine from Belgrade, the Department of Infectious Diseases. By re-examining the blood sample from the throat suspected of fever, a positive sample was found. Here, gentlemen, they get, nicely, from the Ministry of Agriculture, their G16 minus, credit, they use it for importing infected heifers, which after they go to the barns of agricultural producers, and worst of all, those for the heifer of wages, say, 1,000 euros, and that poor individual agricultural producer sells it for 1,500, which doubles that loan, and they return it when they return it. There's something else that's unclear about the Veteran Authority. Every year, a special programme is being made for health care measures in populated places where souvenir stations, and priorities should be those that have the most professional people in these veterinary cells and the most organised, literally, in every populated town for 24 hours. Dr. Krnjajic doesn't do something like that. Here's an example from Velemir. The health care programme received a health care programme for the "Palma Veterina" veterinary station from Zrenjanin, and it does not receive the "Veto Spa" veterinary station from Velemir, which is there, literally, all 24 hours. So, the one who is there and 24 hours saves animals, he assigns the program, I mean Dr. Krnjajic, that "Palma Veterina" from Zrenjanin, and does not assign it to someone who is 24 hours in Velemir, who also has his own veterinary station, called "Veto Spa". There's still a lot of irregularities. I'm asking a parliamentary question again, Mr. Mikhailovich. I, for example, asked a parliamentary question three months ago. In fact, in the Agricultural Development Fund, there is a section for irrigation systems and 180 million dinars have been allocated. The 180 million dinars received three entities, as we were informed as members of the Committee. I asked the question which are the three subjects that got three times 60 million, and now I'm asking the question, what are these entities that got 60 million? Don't you think it makes more sense for them to get 60 million each than for three entities to get 60 million each? If a loan is taken for five years, it is seen for a period of one year, that entity must return 15 million dinars annually. It is another set of irregularities that occur and which are transferred from one ministry to a people who, especially farmers, are poor standing. I have to say, since I'm coming from the field, and as you know, I'm in agriculture, that's what my father left me, that's what you promise the people to do. You promised to pay back the diesel money that was spent. Therefore, the Ministry, i.e. The minister from G16 minus should take special care of section 420 - about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to allow this farmer to live normally, to know what his price is, to know what his price is, to know what his price is, to know what his price is. The only thing he knows is that he's got a premium for an oily turnip and he's got a pumpkin seed premium. Everything else is on the back of a farmer, tired anyway of those severe sanctions, and especially now, from the needs that, by bending here, we bring to the European Union. Therefore, gentlemen, all amendments to be submitted before the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group are certainly aimed at better allocation of funds by classification, because this is now given one gets more, one less, and mainly those who are members of the G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29432	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) We interrupt today's work. The extension is at 15 hours and 10 minutes and the amendment to Article 7. Division 11 submitted by MP Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29433	We'll continue the afternoon session. A review in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, with proposals for decisions on granting consent. The 11th Amendment was submitted to Article 7 of the amendment by Zoran Mašić. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. I'm obliged to give you a notice under Article 85 of Item 1-6. Today we will be working until the debate is over in detail, and after that we will determine the hour and day of the vote, it will probably be right below and, also, by the end of this session, and that means by the end of the vote, the start of the session that was scheduled today for 12, so I guess we'll end it all in the evening, if we're efficient enough. Here you go, Mr. Machine, and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 of Section 11 of function 420, to add a new economic classification of 543 after economic classification 512; in column 6 to place the amount of 641.750,000 dinars in column 8 to place the amount of 641.750,000 dinars. In the light of this amendment, I will have the largest part of my debate on the National Investment Plan in agriculture and through this give my and my view of the SRS MPs on the proposal of the National Investment Plan for the Agriculture Area. At first, I would like to say that in relation to the overall media promotion and presentation of the Government, and above all, the finance minister, in the past two to three weeks, it can be understood that significant funds are also allocated to the area of agriculture under this national investment plan. If you look at the figure planned, it is a figure of about 74m euros or converted into dinars about seven billion and 714 dinars. That's about 20 to 25% more than the last two years in the budget have been allocated to subsidisation, i.e. First of all, the lending of agricultural production and this aspect can be said not to be so small and insignificant. However, if you look at the overall share of agriculture in these funds, which are intended for the National Investment Plan, it can be seen that these are modest funds, around 4.42%. Certainly the situation in our agricultural production, as one of the most significant industries, is still quite difficult, and our agriculture is not yet from far revitalised, nor reached the level, scale and quality of production as it was in the 1990s or early 90s, 91s, 92s. Because of all the problems that have hit our country, agriculture has been hit the most directly and has been in a difficult situation. On the other hand, it has provided food for the population and easier to endure all the problems that our people have had in recent years. But, precisely in relation to the overall agricultural situation, I think that, in a higher percentage of this total fund, funds should be allocated to agricultural production and thus further help our agricultural producers revitalise this production and become much more competitive on the world market with our agriculture and agricultural products. If you look deeper at what else is under the National Investment Plan, how these funds are and for which purposes have been allocated, and especially in these two years as they are divided, then really with the basis you can suspect that a good part of this was made as a marketing campaign, most likely before the new elections in the Republic of Serbia, and that through this national investment plan in agriculture you want to acquire certain agricultural producers for such a project. However, I hope, after these arguments that I give here at the pay phone, it can be understood how seriously and responsibly proposed these funds and methods and spending procedures. The authorities in which these funds should be invested are the construction and equipment of a laboratory to control the quality of milk. If we remember, we sitting here for nearly three years in parliament, on two occasions the plan and the programme at the Ministry of Agriculture were proposals for budgets to control and improve the quality of milk and each year, when the budget rebalances, these funds were annulled, undermined. This time it is definitely in place, with this national investment plan planned only for 2007 and worth 2,798,000 euros or 237 million dinars. I think that milk producers will be satisfied with this, but on the other hand, if we look at that the majority of the dairy is privatised and their superior goal is to have quality milk as raw materials, then it would be logical for the milkers themselves to finance the purchase of these equipment, not from the resources of the taxpayers of our citizens to allocate this amount, i.e. to obtain equipment that will allow quality milk monitoring as a product, to determine its quality and thus further payment and production according to the determined quality. Furthermore, the investment area is- subsidising loans for modernising equipment in agriculture; incentives for rural development, then forestry and investment in emergency water projects. In essence, this amendment mainly refers to this fifth area of investment. Essentially, we propose to remain only this fifth area, precisely because of the unreal distribution of these funds is essentially analyzed, but if all of this is realised as planned this year, and especially next year - it will certainly be more significant means for the development and improvement of agricultural production. On several examples, I will show how unseriously the proponent has treated us also to the MPs, and to the potential users of these funds. In the area of subsidising loans for the modernisation of agriculture, there are construction of new farms, which are planned to spend two million 976,000 euros or 252 million dinars to be realised by the end of this year. Please, today is September 28th and that means that we only have October, November and December until the end of this business year, and already in December the construction season ends. Does anyone really think that this amount of 252m dinars will be spent on building new farms, especially only 238m euros planned for next year? I agree that I can transfer these funds, but then why are they so unrealistic to show the funds to be spent in this year compared to next year, when they will most likely primarily be realised and spent in the following year. Further, building storage facilities. 1,893,000 euros or 160 million dinars were planned, much more this year, and the next 1,250,000 euros. It's still much less for next year than for this one. An even more eclectic example is in the field of incentives for rural development. We, especially in the SRS, think that our country needs the most in the coming period in the area of agriculture to invest exactly in rural development, because our villages are devastated. An increasing number of rural households have outdated machinery. It is precisely more important to invest in all infrastructures, in rural households, above all for the improvement of production and placement of products, to strengthen rural infrastructure, electrification or improvement of electricity, construction of plumbing, sewers and anything that significantly improves life in the country. Then, environmental protection. Let's just say, in this national investment programme, it's not even planned for rural development. Within the framework of the rural development incentives there is both construction and repair, i.e. editing of the atar roads. Please, this year, it is planned to realise an amount of three million and 48,000 euros or 259 million dinars, and next year almost twice as much. Well, how can now, when harvesting corn and everything else begins, build, repair and edit atari roads? So something indistinguishable or someone who really had nothing to do with agriculture was suggesting something like this. It would be fairer or than the total amount planned for that one quarter, although some jobs cannot be realised this year. So basically, you're giving us creamworth to criticise what you're presenting to us here that you're going to realize and objectively question that it's just a marketing presentation. The construction and construction of a water network, amounting to 3.119m euros this year or the construction of a 3,155m-euro sewage network, is planned for only two million euros in the following year. It's also impossible to realize and it's unnecessary so presented. We believe that if citizens are promised that funds have been created in this country to invest in all spheres and areas of the economy, thus and in agriculture, it will also be realised. It will certainly benefit the country, our people and citizens, but in proposing it we are really asking that it be realistic and life-planned and realized. What I want to say in particular, as far as the agrarian budget is concerned, and all these years, and here some of my party colleagues have been undermining it, and I want to again underline that loans have been granted to encourage the development of agricultural production in the previous two years, according to which more than 10 billion dinars have been given, again by our taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are funds from the Republic's budget. Data are like medium-term loans for the purchase of machinery, repromaterials, the creation of new plantations, the lifting of plastics etc. The funds were given for five years, with a grace period from year to year. A good portion of those funds began to return, as did those short-term loans that were granted for a year. We have nowhere in the budget position, nor in any other position recorded how those funds return to the budget, where they are recorded and how many. Of those 10 billion should be returned by now to the billionaire, and somewhere to show it. These funds are given through business banks. Business banks only participate in the total appropriations with 10% and 10% is the Guarantee Fund, so 80% are budget funds, which are given through banks. Banks get those funds back, they need to get them back into the budget with some system and mechanism. That's what we need to introduce ourselves to. We have no information about it, nor farmers, and it is high time, it is also a question for the Ministry of Finance -- to show how much funds have been given from now on to encourage the development of agriculture has been returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since time is up, I thank you and the president for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29435	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, sections 11, 12, 15, 23 and 24, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Zoran Tanasijević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to article 7. Representatives of the Proposer and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29436	I thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry of Finance, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it's an important issue treated by this amendment, I've talked about it here many times. For those of you who are not from the Moravia County and the Zlatibor County, this is not a familiar enough thing, but it doesn't matter, however, the National Investment Programme, however anyone is experiencing it, is a historic opportunity for many segments in Serbia. The water supply system is one of the most important segments in each country, and this would be an opportunity, as I understand the placement of such high-quality financial resources, to help complete the Regional Water System Rzav, which today uses 350,000 inhabitants, five municipalities of Moraviga and Zlatibor County. I proposed for the following dynamics, in 2006, 500 million euros in 2007 1.2 billion euros, so I proposed 10m euros. That's my amendment, that's big money. So far, 137 million dollars has been invested in this system. He's been exploiting since 1993, his first phase was completed, and now the water is being processed from a live stream. Therefore, it is necessary to build on the country dam profile in Arile, which costs 70m euros. The facility has so far been financed from seven sources: budget funds, water, electricity, municipal compensation, self-delivery and special funds. He was funded by five municipalities and the state of Serbia. Now its capacity is 1,200 liters of water per second, in the second phase would be 2,400 liters of water per second and it would be possible to solve fully by 2070 a permanent problem of water supplying these five municipalities, Kings and others, so that the Lopatnica-Studenica system would be a cold reserve in the King and served only during the technical fallout perhaps to replace what this system can provide. I remind you that at a time when the budget of the Municipality of Cačak was 2.5 million marks, the Municipality of Čačak for the system "Rzav" singled out 500 (the ambassador said:million (the correction to the intervention of the president) marks annually, today the budget of the Municipality of Čačak 21,700,000 euros, and for the system "Rzav" no euro is allocated. With this amendment, I wanted local self-government to be well pictured in these five municipalities, to assess whether it was good to stand halfway and whether the system "Rzav" was such an irrelevant investment procedure and project in these five municipalities, that 11 MPs from these municipalities didn't have the strength to propose something like this and to exercise power in the local self-governments that I now state here. We will discuss this issue not in some public election campaign, we will discuss when we face what is the essence of the political functioning of parliamentary parties and MPs in parliament. The state of Serbia has invested 119 million dollars in this project so far. These are extraordinary financial resources. I remind you that nothing like this exists in Serbia, it does not exist in Southeast Europe. The water is treated with chlorine, ozone, several-tenths of an hour travels a drop of water from Aryl to Gornji Milanovac, these residents have the right to expect from 1.5 billion euros from the National Investment Programme to receive 10 million for what they did more than 20 years ago and can serve as an example to all. I strongly oppose the idea that the funding from the National Investment Programme, which by its size and quality is without competition, with all respect to the reasons and arguments offered by the Government, is spent on those issues that can be addressed from the budget of local self-government or from the regular resources of certain ministries. Unfortunately, in a book printed here, the Rzav system isn't even listed in the regional water systems, and I'm amazed by that. If someone from the Ministry of Water Management, Forestry and Agriculture doesn't know it exists, they have to go see it. The current minister, Mr. Zivkov, is a Lucian son-in-law, his wife was born in one of the municipalities using the Rzav system, had to go there at least once, so they had to tell him where they drank the water from. At the moment, a vice-president and one minister are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Deputy Prime Minister used to live in Cačka and until yesterday, Ivana Dulic-Markovic was the minister of this ministry I'm talking about. Velimir Ilic is the minister of capital investment. Nothing looks like a more capital investment in Serbia than "Rzava". Several New Serbia MPs, including the head of the municipality of Cačak and New Serbia's Secretary-General, are also from Cacak, are sitting MPs of all parliamentary parties, except for Democratic, which is not a party, and there have been no MPs from Cacak for the past two terms. It's a very serious question. We start some new systems, we extract quality resources for things that can otherwise be financed. I know it's hard for some to hear. I know it's hard for some to understand that it was possible in 1993 to release the Rzav system when it took 850,000 marks to preserve works or 2.5 million marks to release the system into exploitation. I know it's hard, but it's done. From 96 to today, no single dinar has been invested in the second phase of the Rzav system. Nationally responsible policy, responsible policy of local self-government, should ensure that such projects are rounded up and that we then leave and resolve issues similar to those in other regions, that we no longer return to the beginning. Please support this amendment in the voting day. I especially ask the MPs from these five municipalities, there are 11 of them here. I'm going to read the ballots very carefully from that vote. No, I warn them now that they still have a chance to say that they are from Chačka, Gornji Milanovac, Luciana, Požega or Arilla, and that their parties, above all when it comes to this issue, are called Cačak, Luciani, Požega, Gornji Milanovac, Arile, and put party interest in another plan, and that they opted and voted for what is an important issue for the 350,000 inhabitants of these two regions. That's my idea. I've talked about this many times when other finance ministers and other agriculture ministers were. Unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet. I hope so, and I'm done with it. In 1954, academician Miladin Pećinar made an idea project of this system. In the third phase, this system should accept the waters of Uvac and 16 cubic metres of water per second to raise the level of coastal water quality in regions through which West Morava flows, and eight cubic metres per second to come to Belgrade with clean water. That's the point, it's real, it's possible to happen in the next 10 years, with approximately 200m euros in investment. Belgrade is waterless, the King is waterless. Politics is the skill of a possible one, but it is difficult for a parliament, I will not experience it, to ever again discuss 1.5 billion euros in funds to be allocated to the welfare of the state in this way as it is now imagined. That's the point. Once again, I ask all the parties and all the messengers of the people to press the button and to commit to this; none shall be ashamed of this, on the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29437	I'm just asking you to check the stenogram, I think it's going to be a difficult lapus when it comes to that part of the community budget she gave. Just make sure it doesn't be out of 2.5 million out of 500 million; 500 grand, that's between 50. So one-fifth of the budget is regularly set aside. I realized it was a lapus, but it wouldn't get through. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Section 7, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29438	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing: "In Article 7, section 13, function 440, economic classification 512, machinery and equipment, in column six 800,000 is replaced by 2,840,646,000; in column 8, the amount of 800,000 is replaced by 2,843,640,000 dinars. Part of the assets of this appraisal, amounting to 2,864,000 dinars intended for the construction of gas pipelines, gas storage, distribution networks in certain municipalities and cities, increasing energy efficiency, construction of wells, thermal mineral waters, and funds will be spent under a special programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In function 440, the economic classification 551 is deleted. “ So this means to which this amendment applies, that is, the distribution of these funds, is for the Ministry of Mining and Energy. As you can see, it is a significant increase in these funds, if this amendment were to be adopted, which would be very significant, given that these funds would be invested in gasification, construction of gas storage and distribution networks, especially in cities and in a locale where there are none, and I believe that in all of Vojvodina and Serbia, and especially in Vojvodina where I come from, where gasification has not practically even started to work. What I would like to say and tell the citizens of Serbia is that so-called The National Investment Fund is a major invention and fraud of the current Minister Dinkic. It is exclusively intended for marketing purposes, and for the promotion of his party and his ministry, because there are neither real investment nor any other investment. He, therefore, cheats on Serbian citizens, can be said freely, by a classic fraud, by replacing the thesis, where he actually calls plans and programmes of the Ministry, related to the ongoing and investment maintenance of facilities and capital investments that so far existed under today's Budget Law, the National Investment Plan, but only, as I said, in the form that he wants to propagate his party. But I hope that, as well as Serbian radicals, Serbian citizens will recognize this scam by Mladjan Dinkic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29439	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ilic. I'm sorry, let me give you the information, let me repeat, Mr. Peric. The information is, we'll work to end the debate in particular, then we'll approach the vote, and then, because the beginning of the session that was scheduled for 12:00, we'll approach it. I apologize to Mr. Radishi Ilic. He's from a place where you know the song "Charles cheated, sugar gave him." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP of the SRS, Mr Bozidar Koprivica, has submitted an amendment relating to division 13, where the funds of the Ministry of Mining and Energy have been identified. Radicals have always pointed out what kind of experts from G17 plus are, and they showed up just after October 5, 2000. Here's your freshest example. In this issue, as I would say, G17 Plus Brothers, and it's called the National Investment Plan, page 79, which refers to the sectoral investment plan in the field of energy, is something that puts me in a position to think that experts from cement factories, Holcim, Lafarz and Koserić "Titanu", are being ignorant. Here, one of your experts calculated precisely for the cement industry, it's shown in the table, that it's energy savings, and that's precisely about carbon replacement by gas, from 8 to 10%. Well, gentlemen of the experts in resignation, I want to tell you, but you could have asked about No Kolesar, your former partner in DOS government, who was accused of bribery and corruption in height about two million and 300.00 dollars, that in Holcim, that's the former factory Novi Popovac at Paracino, coal used as energy instead of gas since 2003. It's the same situation in Lafarz, while Titan combines oil-cox and lube. So you deceived the public and the experts pointed out on this simple and simple case that they were wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29441	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic to article 7th section of the 14th election. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Bora Kutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29442	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, in which I propose to delete section 14, function 440. So, what's this all about? We know that the SRS is programmed against setting up agencies for all sorts of things, because it's an expensive and slightly efficient part of the state's apparatus. None of the agencies have so far given the expected results in their work, so it is necessary to allocate budgets to work for something that is not effective in practice. That's why I've submitted this amendment, that means division 14, function 440, is deleted from the proposal of the proposed law. Furthermore, here in section 14 of function 440, certain illogicalities can be seen, and the economic classification 411 provides for salaries and allowances for employees of 1,200,000 dinars, while for travel costs two million. I really don't see any sense in anyone's spending more time on travel than it is paid for wages. Let's imagine the citizens of my Serbian, where we have three in the labour market on one employee, when they read that two employees, because it's to be concluded that here most likely two people work at the agency, spend their travel expenses on over two million dinars. When it turns into euro, it's somewhere over 25,000 euros. When it turns into some liters of gasoline, we can conclude that it will spend 60 liters of gasoline a day, this agency that has not produced any results in practice. Therefore, if we had any hosts, and I believe we are at our homes, I would invite all MPs to support this amendment in the voting day and not to pass this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29443	Thank you, Mr. Box. According to Article 225 paragraph 1, please consult the Informor, you have detailed information, including data that, unfortunately, confirms what you said, that there is a situation that is sometimes more spent on one species than on another. Anyone else want a word with this case? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29444	I was under the impression that you've accelerated this a little bit, Mr. President, but good. Mr. Aleksandar Djordjevic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, and the amendment included Article 7, since it is really large, covering all divisions, covered a division of 18 functions of 410, which is within the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services. What is proposed by the amendment? To add a new EC 511 "Builds and construction facilities" after EC 483 and an amount of 961,000,000 is projected to be replaced and the EC 512 " Machines and Equipment" amounted to 21,000,000, and to be deleted by the EC 551. It only seems a little complicated to understand at first sight, but it essentially comes down to the installation of this piece, which you have foreseen as the National Investment Plan, in something that should be the regular activities of this budget user of funds. We thus point out that our view that development is not a controversial phenomenon, which happens depending on whether the state has been successful in the sale, in the privatisation, we do not enter how this success occurred, but that development funds must be constantly foreseen. In this way, we show that this, by waving it as a National Investment Plan, is actually something that capital projects that are in the jurisdiction of the state, and it has an obligation to also equip the ministries to do and to finish their jobs, but also to influence other activities that are relevant to state functions. Now might be a chance to repeat what I said this morning. The Ministry of Trade and Tourism cannot organise counselling on the Kopalnik and invite SPO officials there. What Serbian citizens think of the SPO and Vuk Draskovic, they said in the elections. You can't, just because the Minister of Trade and Tourism is from the SPO, that, in the framework of the regular educational activities of the Tourism Inspectorate, he is going through these costs to conduct a retail session of the main board of his party, so he invites the presidents of the executive committees of his party, so the officials, on the state cost. Let them do it wherever they want. Let them organize it in Subotica, on Palic. If it's with their resources, it's all normal, okay, but it's impossible to cover up under government functions, state activities covering up purely party activity. What does the Secretary of the Municipal Committee of the SPO have to do with tourism, what little is left? It doesn't matter. I don't know why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would pay that, and they pay it, whether or not they're taxpayers, they pay it every day, through value added tax, through property tax, through all these other obligations they impose on them, which they don't really ask much. Let me just draw your attention to the fact that within this ministry, travel costs are 15 million dinars, and within that ministry, there are eight million and some travel expenses. Whether it's just travel expenses for the service or something, I don't know, but according to RTS reports, some of them are traveling from the ministry, and their journey almost has nothing to do with the ministry's activities. I'm not a pettyr, I'm just paying attention that ten times the 2006 budget is higher than 2000. That's an interesting thing. It's probably ten times better. If 10 times were better, I probably wouldn't be able to say what I'm saying from this pay phone. If it was twice as good, I'd probably talk to a lot of caution, and maybe whoever defends the budget would make some argument and some evidence that's at least twice as good as it was. It is not the argument, but simply the government defends itself by silence or negotiation within the government. You can see for yourself how much this situation of the coalition government is affecting functioning and public finances. Just to remind you, two or more years ago, I warned from here, when you formed a government, that you'd been parquetished by the ministries, by the parties. In the ministry, the party is God's party, Opus dei, in the ministry. So you have where the diaspora is, there are others who can't; where the store is, others can't; where the finances are, they can't even think; where the police are, there's no access to others. This inspector general, something to make a noise. Who should control the intentional use of budget funds? How will crow eyes take out, what would our citizens say? Crow crows don't take their eyes out. Everything is presented to us, the first virtual surplus, where the message was given "I know I owe," but then it goes like Bora Kostic from, I think, the Inos Savings: "I'll return it when I turn it around". That's what Mladjan Dinkic says. "We'll pay the citizens back, we'll meet our obligations!" When? "When we decide it should be!" He's got extra money. "What difference does it make that there's extra money, we'll invest it in the National Investment Plan." That's the same thing. You're in charge of the bank, you don't want to get your loan back, but when you earn it, then you'll start coming back. What happens to the mortgage in the meantime, they don't care, and this government doesn't care about the mortgage they have on citizens. It's that metaphorical mortgage. That's why we submitted this amendment, to point out these problems that exist, that the National Investment Plan is one pre-election mirage. But as I could see these days, that mirage is kind of faded because it's approaching October 1st, not October 5th, but October 1st. On October 5th, they will celebrate some NGOs, but they will have the courage to celebrate when October 5th went down. There are only harmful consequences left, and these are serious adverse consequences. Since we obviously don't have much influence in the National Assembly to convince us, our power of persuasion is weak, I'm taking the opportunity to draw attention to the citizens so they can convince themselves, orient themselves in time and space, the time of choice goes by. Here, in Leskovac there'll be a good rally now, you'll hear it there. There will be local elections in Gornji Milanovac soon. The fact that the asphaltation of some juice started, you know, only goes until Monday. It could be true for the next 15 days, if one of the government's candidates goes to the second round. If he doesn't go to the second round, he'll take out that asphalt they've paved in the meantime, in protest and hate. On what basis is this being concluded? Based on each economic classification in the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget. It's immoral to defend the budget of one who won't be sitting in the government on Monday. Of course you understand that. It is probably immoral to run for a major coalition, as Mladic will never be delivered. How to be in the government of a new democratic party, with the old minister and the old party, and Mladic has not been delivered and will not be delivered. You all know he won't be delivered. And the 2nd and 3rd are your big sister, Carla del Ponte. What are you going to do in front of Carl, with the minister's scalp and G17 plus? It is no satisfaction for the European Union. Believe me, none. Let me remind you, I told you two and a half years ago. You didn't listen to me, you voted in every way possible, your hands and your legs, to keep it going. The Great Army managed to gather something that could not be gathered. Here, you see, the time has come for us to part ways. It took a while. It is realistic that you will remember and often mention it, but the moment has come to part. You saw for yourself, you wrote your own goodbye.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29445	Please continue, you have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29446	I was talking about G17 plus, I wasn't talking about you, Mr. President. You're the slow president.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29447	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29448	No, no, Mr. President, I'm talking to the government and the parties who make up the government and whose concept, meaning and lifestyle are seen in this fat book, which has very thoroughly processed all the positions, but is in a row with those previous books, with the same name, only with different numbers. This had to happen. Only the inexperienced didn't see it on the first day that it would end like this. Those who were a little longer in politics, who pushed this through, knew this was the inevitable path. This is a road without going back. I don't want Serbia on the road without coming back. That's why I've been going out these days, and I'm going out again to make the citizens understand. It is quite clear to you, but citizens need to understand what you did, how you did, why you worked and what the hole in the whistle was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia compared to this government and how this government was experiencing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and how it humiliated them at every turn, not choosing funds. It's a theme to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29449	I beg your pardon, because of the misunderstanding and in a sign of apology, I'm confirming the compliment that you deserve, so, Mr. Krasic, I testify that you speak Latin equally well and understand English as well. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 20th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm sorry that we, a little older people, are having a little fun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29450	Ladies and gentlemen, the general impression that can be gained when reading and studying what has been given to MPs these days, and what is on the agenda today, can be summed up in one sentence: the state of Serbia is still a state of absurdity. Because this leads to the conclusion that there is neither a world of poorer people nor a richer state. The drama in which people literally starve has a budget surplus and has 1.6 billion euros for so-called. capital investments. The central theme of this many-day session is this book, which we have received these days, which in shape and essence resembles and resembles graduate, or possibly master's work. A book by which the finance minister tried to deceive Serbia, i.e. continues to try until the vote. In this book, which bears a rather ambitious title, "National Investment Plan", Mr Dinkic is trying to convince Serbian citizens that the state has enough resources to change Serbia from basics over the next few months or in a few years. That Serbia has enough resources, enough power, to change from the foundation over the next few years, of course under the leadership of Mladjan Dinkic and possibly the government in this same system, and to become some new, richer and more orderly state. I'm going to try to break this document a little bit, although he deserves a lot more time than these 15 minutes, as much as we have at our disposal. On the first hand, with a photograph of the minister concerned, it says that Serbia achieved an surplus of privatisation revenues and a budget surplus totaling more than 2.1 billion euros in 2006. That's over 160 billion dinars. I underline, it stands for extra income, so that's a surplus compared to what the finance minister planned for the 2006 budget. If that's too much, then the logical question is why are we talking about thirty-and-a-half billion new dinars in budget rebalancing? What about the other 130 or more billion dinars, which have been achieved by privatization as surplus income this year? Where is it hidden, why isn't it shown in this budget rebalancing? Speaking of privatisation, I have to step away from this central topic briefly and get to know the present MPs, but perhaps more importantly the public of Serbia, although the SRS MPs have previously pointed to the destruction of privatisation by the model that the DOS introduced by coming to power in 2001, and this government has taken over and continued to work in the same way, because I personally think that privatisation is scarier than any country's betrayal and that its consequences are more devastating to the citizens of Serbia than the country's betrayal. I have here material related to the Hidrotechnicals-Hydroenergy company in Belgrade. On the occasion of privatisation, which was carried out in 2003, probably some MPs know about this material, may have the same thing with them, so I will ask them, but also the competent authorities, why this is not resolved, it does not resolve and why the state authorities do not respect the rules that are in force. In fact, this company bought a consortium at a public auction, according to conditions reached there and within a legal deadline of six years. However, due to lack of respect for contractual obligations, the Privatisation Agency launched a dispute before the Trade Court for the termination of the contract and it was suspended in 2005 at the Trade Court in Belgrade, and then the verdict was confirmed by the Higher Trade Court. Meanwhile, by means of funds that came from abroad, the consortium broadcast actions, twice, and the actions carried out by the company's recapitalisation. By breaking the contract between the Agency and the consortium, all the actions taken by the consortium in the meantime have become nothing. However, although the Agency has tried to convince the competent state authorities to rule the Trade Court, both the basic and the Higher, implement, the Central Register did not fulfil this obligation, or did not act by judgment, thus continuing to be held in the Central Register as the owner of a certain number of actions, bringing the state's ownership down to or down to some 38% instead of 70% of the capital, to the extent it should be owned by the State after the cancellation of the contract. Not to spread the story about this, I ask only the question to the competent authorities, from the agency to the Central Register, how two state authorities can interpret differently the same regulation and why the decision, i.e. the decision of the Higher and Commercial Court, is not implemented and other emissions of action can not be annulled, or why the state does not deprive itself of the state of ownership of 80% of the capital in this company. I will return to this capital work by Minister Dinkic. I've already said that there's one problem at the beginning, if it's a surplus of 160 billion dinars, and the rebalancing only shows 30, so the question is what's wrong with the other 130, why aren't they shown here, where they're hiding and what they're being held for. In this part, Mr Dinkic talks about the balanced development of the Republic, i.e. that the government allegedly had a Serbian development strategy ahead of it, and on the basis of this strategy, she tried to deploy these funds, which she defined for investments in Serbia, evenly across all regions, in order to reduce these differences in the development of certain areas. On page 11, there is one table that says that for the region of western Serbia, from which I come, is intended 162 euros per capita. The first question, which can be asked here, is this strategy to which it is called, where it is, whether it exists at all, and I say it does not exist. If there may be somewhere in a drawer or someone else's, why isn't it in this parliament in front of the Serbian Parliament. For five years now, we have been talking about various strategies, from Serbia's development strategy, through a strategy for the development of agriculture, energy and other areas, and we have seen all these strategic documents, as MPs who are supposed to declare these documents strategically, only the energy development strategy by 2015. No other strategic document has arrived in this congregation. This investment plan, with 1,600,000 euros, must be based, based on a strategic document called the Republic of Serbia's development strategy. We haven't seen a similar document since the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 1995, and I don't know on what basis and who assessed what strategic projects they are for Serbia. As far as western Serbia is concerned, I will only say a few sentences about the Bayin Basta municipality, which belongs to the Zlatibor County, which is underdeveloped according to this study, and which was to belong, according to this bill, to the number of inhabitants, close to 5,000 euros. Based on this document, Bajina Basta will receive about 750,000 euros in investments or, more specifically, will receive instead of 162 euros per capita only 25 euros per capita. Now I ask the question, probably the minister knows the answer but he's not there, is the problem with the minister and the ministry that decided on this or the government, or is the problem with authorities in the local self-government of Bajina Basta, who may not have delivered projects in competition for this national plan. It is incomprehensible that the National Investment Plan is being adopted on the basis of projects of local self-government, individuals, associations of citizens, NGOs, etc. They may be project promoters, they should be, but the government must have this strategic document, based on which to valorise all projects and based on which to determine and determine investment priorities. In his exhibition, Minister Dinkic also spoke about the way these projects were monitored, the implementation of projects, i.e. the way in which certain works of the performer, i.e. public procurement, so he said, literally, that after collecting offers, when bids are opened, then that lowest offer will be the basis for some kind of bidding, which he will invite all participants to and then choose from TV cameras the most favourable, means even cheaper than the lowest offer. I've read this carefully and on page 36, 37, 38 there's talk about it, and there's no mention of this television auction in front of the TV cameras. If it's just the minister in his head, I don't know, but it's not in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and maybe it's not a bad idea. But if it's good and it's going to apply here, why not enter the Public Procurement Act, so it's a rule for all public procurement in Serbia, not for the Public Procurement Act to be just a cover for corruption at all levels in Serbia. And as for the amendment itself, since the time is near, a few sentences and about it, I have submitted an amendment to division 22, which refers to the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, and what we think is absurd here, for machines and equipment 1,200,000 dinars. I ask you, is it possible for basic research in Serbia to single out only a million dinars for all scientific disciplines, for the purchase of necessary equipment? Is that enough and can you talk about scientific research with that? Without research, there is no science, and without science, there is no development of a society. That is why we have suggested that this figure be changed, that it increase by about a billion and a half dinars, and I ask the MPs to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29451	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I apologize to the others who have responded, and I have not responded when it comes to the political linkage here, when they run the next round, do not worry, when they are warned, and cash if necessary. On article 7 of the 22nd amendment, Nikola Lalic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Lalichu.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29452	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, split 22, function 560 to be deleted. I've put up with it for the following reasons. We don't really know how many agencies we have, but most of us don't know, and what these agencies are dealing with, because we have established retail agencies for everything and everything. Orders to point out some, we have the Energy Consensus Agency, so the Tobacco Agency, the Recycling Agency, foreign investments, the development of local self-government, anti-doping and so on. But the Agency for the Financing of Banks Managers is interesting, so it is interesting and what is happening here at all, and I only remind you that a month ago in public information, we managed to read that one of the bankruptcy managers is looking for compensation – probably an expert and we don't know how many companies the bankruptcy manager was – about 600,000 euros. Looking at these numbers, I think we should really think about what these agencies are doing. Furthermore, I would just like to point out on the way to the Privatisation Agency, where in fact everything that needs to be solved in most cases is solved by members of the government or ministers. We have an obvious example, just to remind you of what happened here, and the Labus case, which solves the privatisation problem from his bed and from his house. On the other hand, when we consider all this, you have one problem, where education requires an increase in personal income, where the problem is obviously present in our society. We have unresolved health problems that our colleague from the Radical Party was talking about. Also, you have a problem with pensioners who complain that their pensions are not in sync. You've got extra workers in the army who no longer know who they are, what they are, and what they're supposed to do tomorrow. These officers have given this society so much that they have been educated by the state, that many have contributed to their education in this country, and today they no longer know whose they are, whether they belong to Montenegro or belong to the Republic of Serbia. You've had unresolved problems. We've had refugees in collective centres for ten years. Imagine how these people feel, where their grandchildren are, and grandparents, and grandmothers, all together in one shared bathroom. It's no longer in the military or the Wild West, but unfortunately it's all happening with us. By the way, this budget rebalance provides for young talents of some 900 million dinars. Compare this figure, what these young talents represent, or in fact through this vision, represent nothing, if this is how we treat them, if we're going to single out such small funds for their education. When we have all of this in mind that I have set out and we have the fact that the government says - the economic situation in the country is stable and good, a surplus has been achieved, which means that the state has not properly allocated the funds. Where to achieve such a great surplus, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that there are these problems that I was just talking about. Why did I submit an amendment to delete this member? I believe that this Environment Protection Agency should not exist, because above each of these agencies there are both ministries and funds. For example, we already have the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, so we have the Environmental Protection Authority, so we have the Environmental Protection Fund. About 6.5 billion dinars are scheduled for them to spend around the budget. When you have all this in mind, then I wonder if tomorrow you're going to vote for this proposal I made, to delete this agency, because in fact it shouldn't exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29453	Thank you, Mr. Lalichu. Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 23rd amendment, Nemanja Sarovic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29454	Ladies and gentlemen, division 23 of Article 7. The proposal on budget rebalancing refers to the Ministry of Education and Sports, and this is a very interesting topic for many, and it is certainly necessary for the public to say some things about the functioning of this ministry and Minister Slobodan Vuksanovic. First, I want to get to know the public about what Slobodan Vuksanovic did at the beginning of this school year, when 4,000 primary and secondary school students were brought to a cinema in Belgrade, the arrival was required to watch the movie "Where lemon flowers yellow". Tickets for the film all children had to pay 50 dinars, so 4,000 children, and all children who were not from the narrow centre of Belgrade, had to come by transport, who paid 100 dinars. During the promotion of the film, Minister Vuksanovic appeared and, believe it or not, the children played him, threw empty bottles, and somehow to save himself from 4,000 students, Slobodan Vuksanovic said - just look at this film, you will not make up for teaching, on behalf of what you see today in this cinema will be reduced history classes in 10 hours, and from the area of World War I. So Slobodan Vuksanovic raises children in Serbia, and I also have an obligation to pass it on to you, and more for the public, that there have been such riots at the promotion of the film, that teachers have barely managed to keep as many things under control as possible. Those kids weren't interested in watching that movie. There was also alcohol, there was no single police officer, bottles were flying everywhere, children were jumping around the chairs, and all of this was obvious by Minister Vuksanovic. Furthermore, what is interesting about what Minister Vuksanovic tells us about every day from small screens when he talks to the public, refers to student excursions. And then he swears that Slobodan Vuksanovic will no longer be able to take any other agency to the excursions, that the tenders will be discussed, that it will all be legal, that there will be no more jobs under the grains, etc., and the real situation is that only certain agencies remain, I am speaking to Belgrade now, I am sure that in other parts of Serbia, he is taking the students on tours in Serbia, that these closed envelopes, which appear in the tender, are opening without the presence of a representative of the agency who applied, and that they are opening and agreeing exclusively with one part of the advice of parents and school directors. And that it is still present, what has been present for years, that the directors are installed on the parents' account in these excursions, by the directors taking members of their families on these excursions, by getting journals, as much as they agree with the agency that conducts these excursions. I repeat again, all this on the burden of parents, who, of course, have a good will and intend to afford their children these excursions, but unfortunately the way they do it now in schools, subtzv. With democratic authority, it's more than criminal. Furthermore, the minister of education well knows that in schools in Serbia more than 80% of the directors of the thieving yellow company are and he favors it with a hearty support, so we had an interesting example. By law, you know that local self-government is required to propose for each school a number of people from the territory and local self-government where the school is located, and then Nenad Bogdanović asked the municipality of Zemun to submit a list to the school board for all schools in the territory of the municipality of Zemun, and when the municipal council council agreed with the president, Mrs Gordan Pop-Lazic and the competent commission in the municipality, that list was delivered to the City Assembly, then only a new list appeared at the City Assembly session, where there was no life from those proposed by the municipality of Zemun, i.e. local self-government. About this Minister Vuksanovic is familiar, but of course, since he does not know until when he was with the yellows and when he will cross over to them again, he covered it up in agreement with his friend Bogdanovic. One day, one or two newspapers published some five lines of this, and this was all about the lack of respect for the law, i.e. the abuse of laws in schools in the territory of the Zemun municipality. Minister Vuksanovic likes to talk about modern schools, computerized schools, likes to talk about a miracle, which is schools in French and English in the middle of Serbia. Of course, we have nothing against computers, against modern schools, against modern buildings, but we have a lot against this ministry's program and this government. We also have against the fact that our children in Belgrade are learning, that their day-to-day teaching is in a foreign language. We think it is a terrible attack on the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, which are the language and letter officially in Serbia, according to the Constitution and according to the applicable laws. But Slobodan Vuksanovic, like most ministers, imagines Serbia as a circle of two in Belgrade. I can't say Belgrade either, because the situation in schools, for example, in some villages around Belgrade and in the city is so drastically different that it simply can't compare. While some schools connect and network into some computer systems, up to 20% of schools in Belgrade's territory have no hidden nodes, have outside toilets that children use, schools aren't fenced, healed, simply act like horror and horror movies, fallen ceilings, those old drum furnaces. I advise you, dear colleagues, to visit schools, since you are MPs, you should know every segment of society in your environment, and visit schools and you will see that I haven't said a single word, not a single letter that doesn't correspond to the truth, a state in the field. Children's facilities aren't in better shape, but that's why we've got small screen praises like that again. We got this donation, we got that donation, and then the other day that reporter was laughing on one television show some equipment for a kindergarten, which was placed somewhere in a shed near that kindergarten, because no one thought to measure the rooms so he could enter that furniture. They got some furniture that had nowhere to put and couldn't be used. On the other hand, Minister Vuksanovic, when we adopted this budget, and Mladjan Dinkic, on his behalf, promised some increase in earnings to the educational employees, and of course there was nothing. Some kind of funny, actually humiliating profit increase of 0.4 or I don't know which percentages are at stake, it's really becoming something that's inadmissible, which offends these people, which offends that profession and certainly leaves a mark on what these people are doing, which is education and raising children. In addition to such bad laws on the foundations of primary and secondary education and the Law on Higher Education, when we spoke of these laws, I said that these are the most harmful laws this Parliament has passed, and that therefore, the gentlemen who voted for those laws will be registered with the blackest possible letters in the history of Serbian education. Because if you pass a law on the basis of which a factory is destroyed, or some criminal privatisation or anything else that is material character, I can't accept it, but I understand what you're doing. It's certainly something that some responsible and serious government will be able to correct after you. It's gonna be hard, but it's not wrong. But what you've done to these laws on basic, middle and high education -- it's the destruction of several generations, dear fellow MPs. Remember, some of you may have been high school students at the time of those "Shuvarica" in that former Yugoslavia, and you know well what the consequences of this Shuvar system have left for several generations who have studied under that system. What is now, according to the DOS system of government, is indeed a disaster and tragedy for future generations, because what you destroy through education and education -- it really cannot be corrected. Minister Vuksanovic is also a man who loves to paint with athletes and loves to promise towers and cities to athletes, and in Article 7, he split up 23, chapter 23, item 6, function 810, that's exactly where counterpart Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment to the economic classification 511 - that's an item relating to buildings and construction facilities. Believe it or not, for the sake of sports publicity, first of all, for this item, Minister of Education and Minister Dinkic Vojislav Kostunica, zero dinars were projected from the budget. They predicted eight million dinars, and in the morning I talked about it, about eight million coming from other funds, not from the budget, and we don't know where -- whether it's a donation, maybe some unfavourable loan that Serbian citizens have to repay, or that they'll just have to pay back when these deadlines come out, as you like to say, "grace periods". When you came to power, you used such expressions, that Serbian citizens don't understand what you're saying and that they think, God, you're very smart, when you don't know you speak Serbian; yes, transparently, you're right, Vito. So, the eight million dinars were proposed for buildings and construction facilities within the Sports Authority, and the SRS parliamentary group proposes that it be 762 million and 778,000 dinars. We also suggest that these funds are used for the construction and reconstruction of swimming pools, sports halls, physical halls, construction and reconstruction of open sports fields and children's playgrounds of local character. The schedule and use, of course, would be carried out in accordance with a special government act. In this way, something would be done in this area and, of course, past Belgrade. I repeat, we have no objection to working in Belgrade, but the government of Serbia and government ministers must already understand that Serbia is not only a circle of two in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29455	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 23rd Amendment is the afternoon MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, and on behalf of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, where I propose that the 23rd, Chapter 23, point 10, function 810 be deleted. The law envisions funding from the anti-doping agency of the Republic of Serbia. Programmeically, the Serbian Radical Party is against establishing agencies for all sorts of things, because it is a very expensive and slightly efficient part of the state apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so I find it unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing the costs of the state administration. For the purpose of funding the Antidoping Agency is planned to spend 6,865,000 dinars. I think this money was much smarter to use to finance a project in Kosovo and Metohija and thus help the return and survival of the Serb population in those areas. In fact, very little by the state of Serbia is concerned that the life of the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is made as tolerable as possible, in a situation where these people do not have the elemental conditions for a 21st-century man's life. In the municipality of Strpce, from which I usually come, almost nothing is invested. The truth of the will, the municipal leadership, which was elected in 2002 in UNMIK's elections, and recognised by the Coordination Centre, did not particularly seek to make funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and invest in priority matters. If little or no work had been done on this issue, Mrs Sandra Raskovic-Ivić herself had personally convinced herself, during her last week's visit to the municipality of Strpce, where she could see and feel their bitterness and dissatisfaction in direct contact with the citizens. Citizens of the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, among other things, presented concrete material evidence of various machinations that work in the municipality of Strpce administration also work with the few funds obtained from the Republic budget. There is also a promise on her part, which she then made, that she would do anything to send a budget inspection, so it remains to be seen. If there is no announced budget control, it will be more than clear that someone from the top of the government is protecting criminal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29457	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 23rd Amendment is the afternoon MP Rodoljub Gačević. He has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment suggests that in Article 7 of division 23, function 980, economic classification 511, with the name - Buildings and construction buildings, in column six put the amount of 977 million and 500 thousand dinars, i.e. in column 8 amounting to 36,117,633 replace the amount of 1,013,617,633, which is the sum of column six plus seven. The amount of 977.500,000 dinars will be used for investment investments at all levels of education. Also, in economic classification 512, as regards machinery and equipment, in column six, the amount of a million dinars to replace the amount of 936 million dinars, i.e. in column eight amounts of three million dinars to replace the amount of 938 million dinars. Otherwise, this 935m dinar budget allocation will be used as a material basis for education investments at all levels - from primary to higher education. The National Investment Fund and the National Investment Programme are not any newspapers. They have so far existed within the framework of individual ministries, i.e. plans and programmes, and above all the Ministry of Capital Investments and others. This isn't any new investment that anyone wants to introduce themselves to, this is just one of the new finance ministers scams, and it's calculated on, above all, marketing purposes for the political party G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29459	Thank you. Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. The 24th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 7. Split of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The word has the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're in a bit of a weird situation, this is just amazing, this haste that someone decided to leave the ship on October 1st. Now I need to discuss someone's vanity all night long, and it's well known that it won't have absolutely any meaning, because the next government, means the radical government, is going to do what's best, and we know this isn't good, and we're talking about it all the time. Let me get back to the amendment. This amendment, which I have submitted, like the other amendments to the SRS MP, aims to expose the great deception of the minister in resignation, more precisely in 54 hours, and if necessary when it comes to these local elections, and the bulldozer, and the asphalt of the master, and this deception is called the National Investment Plan. For the purpose of spending the budget, there is now a budget, in which you are now inserting the so-called budget. A national investment plan, as a list of wishes you picked up from local self-government in Serbia. This amendment requires funds of a total of 5,382,200,000 dinars to be planned for division 25, function 760, economic classification 511 and 512, instead of partly being defined for the phantom investment plan. All that you have stated in the special economic classification under 511, which is marked by the National Investment Plan, which is also required by this amendment, exists in the classification for division 25, Ministry of Health. But it is known that in a few months from G17 plus there will be nothing left on the political scene and that this government is going into the past, and with it Mladjan Dinkic. You could have listed a sum of 100 billion, 150, 200 billion, but why would you do that, because you know you won't be in a position to do all that. And this is how you set your priorities yourself, paint the facades of those hospitals where your directors are, you will equip hospitals with more modern equipment, where your staffs are, etc. That Serbia should repay two billion and more dollars in debt since 2010, which is the finance minister and the outgoing government is not at all interested. The health ministry should deal with increasingly frequent affairs in health institutions. Where are the health department inspections? Why aren't they doing something in the field? Should there be cases like recently a girl died in a private hospital, then become effective? What kind of minister, or party he comes from, is what are the bosses who are placed on the party line, so does the Ministry of Health. Everything is foreseen by this plan, only there is perhaps one more thing that you could introduce here, and that is a sectoral investment plan for extraordinary local elections, so that ministers can legally use state money, to pave the way for 200 meters in every village, to buy 20 plastic chairs for the homes of the village culture, which do not exist, or, say, with their presidential candidate, as in Despotovac, to leave in the middle of the elementary school and to share school supplies and ranches with children. One more thing. Until yesterday, ministers visited the Despotovac municipality, and now that the elections were called, everyone rushed to Despotovac. There people lived in misery, the Rembass mine was closed, and now, unfortunately, the roads have been dug up. And then he shows up, Velija Ilic, as I would call him, the head of the asphalt circus, does some local stock of 300 meters and thinks it's over. And the fact that the people don't have a job, that in the morning the citizens don't have a child to give 50 dinars when he goes to school to buy breakfast, that they don't have to buy drugs, that's what this government doesn't care about. But when they come to the villages, they only talk about asphalt, and they do not say that the coalition arrests General Mladic, they do not say that they do not arrest those who carry hundreds of thousands of euros in plastic bags, while Serbian citizens have nothing to eat, they do not talk about those who have paid for the high-end locomotives from Sweden. They should be told what an illegal in the government of the Republic of Serbia, known as the citizen Vuk Draskovic, signed, and then the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, in Washington, and should know and tell them that we have lost our freedom, that we have given our barracks, polygons and military infrastructure. But what the people say, they hide it like a snake's feet. I have a simple example of what it looks like to deceive the citizens of Despotovac, although it is common in all municipalities where local elections are held and, above all, by the leading party in the ruling coalition, the DSS. We radicals always carry papers, evidence of what we're saying, and this is, as I say, a flier that the DSS activists shared in Despotovac and that's why Resava was raised. What did they promise the citizens of Despotovac municipality? They say -- we'll hire three thousand people to build an army-of-Serbian base polygon. Let me remind you, this is a polygon of the Besuljan meadow, located in the territory of the Despotovac municipality. Now, knowing what the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is, that even in 2010, it will end military service, that it will bring Serbia's Army down to 10,000 members, does this mean that this is being built by some new Bondsteel? Does this mean that NATO soldiers will come here, so that we will have to think about how they will treat our children, our mothers, our sisters, our relatives? That's why Resava got up. What happened? Two days ago, they printed an identical flyer like this, just without this item. That's proof that we were right after all. The funds from the republic's budget usually serve local candidates from the current government to say that the government ministers stand behind them, and then they list that Velimir Ilic stands behind those candidates, the citizen Draskovic, because he is not a minister, stands Dinkic, stands Stankovic, and any honest man might be ashamed to say that such people stand behind him. One is the head of the asphalt circus, one of us sold to the Americans, this third one fell into the NBJ on 6 October 2000. The minister, in fact the citizen Stankovic, is known for volunteering to testify against Serbian heroes in The Hague, etc. If we look at what the G17 Plus Brothers are, because I think this fairy tale is what they're proposing, they wanted with this plan called the National Investment Plan of Defense, there's no additional funding and construction of a military base, or a despotovac municipality. So this was a pre-election lie of a ruling, current, folk coalition, I don't know what to call them. There is no such thing, but in this national plan or investment plan, we can see that the funds for the remont are as much as 13 aircraft. It's our army, and we're going to have so many planes that we can't literally organize any airings. But the new radical government will certainly take more care of citizens and the state, because when citizens have to raise credits, known as easy cash, to buy food and medicine, that's exactly the best indicator of what this government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29461	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) In that case, really a 10 minute break to conduct consultations on why Andersen would be better than the Grimm Brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29462	We'll continue after a break to discuss the amendments. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 29th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29463	On behalf of the SRS, Mr Milan Stevović submitted the amendment to Article 7. It states here that the beneficiary of the budget is the Ministry of Defence. I could understand that in the Republic of Serbia's budget there was, and in rebalancing, I don't know why this exists, a team before you made an end to June 8, 2006, as the date when the SCG state union ceased to exist. From what I've noticed in this budget rebalancing, you've cut off that date, you've come to the data of what's been spent on Serbia's participation in financing the functions of the state community and on those non-existent interior trade ministries, the Council of Ministers, etc. And that intersection has to be shown in rebalancing, but I don't know why there's still a budget user - the Department of Defense. A team before these regulations fell, a team that had expired before the deadline for alignment, and I must inform you that this law is not yet on the agenda in July, you have prescribed that space for two new state bodies in the state structure of the Republic of Serbia, namely the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been practically opened in the state structure of the Republic of Serbia. There is now this division of 29 - the Ministry of Defense, and we don't really have that ministry. We don't even have a minister. We count that the minister is what is chosen in this National Assembly, regardless of what the SRS is in the minority and would vote against. We respect these fluids of parliamentary democracy, because if the Assembly has chosen a person as a minister most of all, we recognize his legitimacy. We have a problem here that a man presents himself as a defence minister, but he is not a defence minister. Because the argument on which this extension of the Minister of Defence of the State Community to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia is based is unacceptable to us, because on that same basis, Svetozar Marovic could also be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. That's the central problem. They'll probably be looking for an excuse in fact to say, well, they're radicals against the military. We're not against the army. There's no state that doesn't have an army. Just to remind you, the Netherlands, one of the most peaceful states on the globe of the Earth, has become a peacetime age since the '50s, when colonialism has been abolished, here now increases the number of soldiers. They have one serious defence ministry and one serious government, which was responsible for some of the things that happened in Srebrenica, which Mr. Prvoslav Davinic knows very well, but cannot talk about. We don't know why you could have put this one in when you don't have a legal basis in the material code. For these matters, this material regulation is the Ministry Act and should be regulations governing defence and military, the Serb army. Not the army of Serbia, but the Serbian army. That's the real name and take care of it. Anyone in power who adopts or proposes an army law, or a defence law, should use the term - the Serb army. Since we don't have those regulations, we don't practically have that beneficiary of budgets. Now she seems a little paradoxical that the SRS is complaining because she doesn't like Zoran Stankovic. Please separate the personal question from the state issue. Personal question is the name and last name, function, moral, professional and other characteristics. As far as we are concerned, it is known that Zoran Stankovic, according to us, does not meet any criteria, because he is hardly able to meet the criteria for choosing the state function of one who is close associate Carla del Ponte, Natasha Kandic. Who promoted himself to a great expert in 1993, Butros Galli to be chosen for medical skills, etc. It can't be from afar a chamber that could run or do anything in the Serb army. In addition, he has a terrible conflict of interest. It's impossible for a state official, like the defence minister, the self-called defence minister, to be an expert in The Hague at the same time. There's a terrible conflict of interest, professionally, but there's even more to the other one. He's willing to hurt people there, because he has to do and finish the dirty work he's been in for a long time. He's been in this business a long time. That part doesn't matter today when you consider budget rebalancing, but what's important -- we don't have a defence ministry in the state structure. If you don't believe me, open up a website of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where the government's composition, the ministry with its structure is given. That's where you won't find the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. You will find it on another site, which is far from the government of the Republic of Serbia, where Serbia-Montenegro, the one who took care of the site, kept Serbia-Montenegro in the part where Zoran Stankovic's biography is located. Even the government is aware that there are no two ministries. I have to tell you how offensive this is for the Republic of Serbia, and it is seen that by the definition of states, besides having territory, the population, the democratic authority chosen, it must also have this authority that has the power to guarantee respect for the decisions of government and normal life in some territory. We don't have these two ministries in our constitutional justice system. Now, the third problem with this rebalancing is that it is modest for the real needs of the Republic of Serbia's defence. Why is he modest? Because the government has no understanding of the needs of the military and the needs of the defence. The government believes that Euro-Atlantic integration can destroy our defences, because others guarantee our defences. That's the real definition. How did that happen? It happened so that when Tadic came as defence minister, a good number of experts came from the Pentagon and the CIA and other intelligence services to lead our army. They entered the Military Academy, made an insight into everything and everything, only looking for what they needed for The Hague, in order to condemn as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia as possible. They don't care about our defenses. Now they give some signs that they have some of our needs in mind, only to the level where we can be a human flesh wasteher, which should become cannon meat on meridians where Americans conduct democracy. A few days ago, the citizen Stankovic in Oslo announced that some teams are training there to go to Afghanistan. This shouldn't surprise you, this isn't the first time you've heard such an attitude from a democratic bloc that applies to our army. I'll remind you it's '91. and '92. In the year, the Democratic Party had one very specific view of all the conflicts that took place in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, where they openly called on citizens not to respond to mobilization while the SFRY existed, and when their theory came to absurdity, they said, "Well, we should hire those who want to fight, who like to fight. '". That's how they treat the army. Of course, one part is treated very well, it is this personal guard, which is known for by President Tadic, because while he was allegedly vice-president of the Democratic Party, he and 10 intelligence groups came into contact with how to secure his private police force, his private army. He hasn't given up that manner, he's still doing it today, except there's this big brother from America, who, from time to time, invites him to come to Washington to some clerk to tell him a new stage, a new stock, a new assignment he needs to fulfill. In a way, of course, there's a lot of anxiety in front of the cameras, but it ends. It's this reality policy, characteristic of the democratic bloc. Let me remind you, there's been an DS MP here for years telling us what Serbia and the world look like, so it's '99. The year described it this way: 'It's the same to you, gentlemen, as when you enter a pub where there are 19 robbers stronger than you, so of course you won't fight 19 robbers. ''It is recognizable to you in this story that the innocent who entered the pub is Serbia, and those 19 are the thieves of NATO. That's DS reality policy. We don't want to fight. So why would we be, we didn't go to New Jersey or Washington to fight. We're sitting at home. This government policy can also be presented by this famous question of Judge Moloto, in the case against Milan Martic, when a witness who tried to explain that Serbs became a national minority by eradicating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia during Franjo Tudjman and Stjepan Mesic, as our people here would say, "Calm," he says: "Well, since you knew what was coming to you, why didn't you avoid suffering by not all moving to Belgrade? '"When the witness tried to explain that he couldn't get out of his house, the judge said, 'I understand that, but there would be no suffering. '". See what is being done against Serbs in general and the Republic of Serbia. Some count that by voting this rebalancing to move the story, that it will no longer be interesting Vuk Draskovic, Zoran Stankovic, that the government will inhale some new air to the referendum, that the constitution will be passed, and then epochally the government of Vojislav Kostunica will not fall, but has regularly made a change due to the constitution. This government has fallen a long time ago, I'm just reminding you, so you don't later say you're too late to get that notice. The army needs another way to finance itself. This position doesn't exist. There is no legal basis for this position in budget rebalancing, because budget rebalance means some change in something that already exists. This did not exist in the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget. You can vote for this position, and against this amendment, only if you clearly prove to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia has been elected in this assembly as minister. If you can't prove he's elected minister here, then you can't vote for this division because you're complicit in non-intentional spending. I often listened to laughter in this room when very serious things are explained, and usually, you smiling after a few months or changing the party or shamed by arrogance, because they didn't take these warnings seriously. We're not against the military, but we're for the respect of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29464	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7th of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29465	Thank you. At two o'clock today, I also drew attention to the people's MPs and the public of Serbia that the finance minister was ignoring the National Assembly and I said that he would show up around half past six, so he would stop for this pay phone in the most visible time and then explain to the citizens inexplicably, to convince them that he would do this or that, as if he had his money, not the same people's money, to whom he might turn. I now call, first of all, on the citizens of Leskovec and Gornji Milanovac to go to the large rally of the SRS, held at six o'clock in Leskovec and Gornji Milanovac. Many smarter things will hear there than to listen to Mladjan Dinkic, who is now here to deny me, to leave the assembly hall again, or is behind me. Go to the citizens of Leskovec and Gornji Milanovac, there you will meet the candidates of the SRS for your local elections. Mladjan Dinkic will stop for this pay phone after me and try to explain something for which there is no explanation. Both Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia deceive citizens with this so-called. the budget rebalance. This is one big delusion. The money they're talking about these days, which they allegedly got from selling mobile phones, is obviously, according to what's in this budget rebalancing, that they're just a colorful lie and that they're just trying, or Minister Dinkic is trying to introduce us, and yesterday, he was trying to live in a country of dembelia. We live in a country of Serbia that is unfortunately economically destroyed, which is largely unemployed, with a large number of citizens on the verge of poverty, with a large number of problems that this government is definitely unable to solve. They've had enough time, these are officially the last days of government. Although what Zoran Krasic said, this government fell long ago, that it had to, and that they had taken care of the legitimacy of the government and the parliamentary majority that supports the government. But they are, in that way, trying not to know how to keep up all this time, showing what they really are, and Serbian citizens certainly recognize that. We know who we are daily in contact with citizens what citizens think about both government and individual ministers, and especially about the minister they are convinced to use their money as it comes to him, to give them to whoever he thinks he should give them to, and that where the greatest needs of citizens, ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not intervene at all. Yesterday, someone said from Serbian radicals that the government is ruling its policy, and so is this rebalancing, it leads and acts as if Serbia is Belgrade. Serbia is much more than Belgrade, Serbia is both Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia is and Vojvodina, Serbia is and Shumadija, and many unfortunately our leftover villages, many cities where nothing works, in which people barely make ends meet and on this problem the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not written a single letter through this rebalancing. The real truth, which is why we are actually discussing budget rebalancing for 2006, is that two citizens are introduced to a small door, one is Zoran Stankovic, the other is Vuk Draskovic, whom Vojislav Kostunica completely illegally and counter-constitutionally let sit in government sessions, and neither are journalists nor photographers. I don't understand how they can attend government sessions. They say they don't vote, but they're here, I don't know what, just in case. They are falsely represented, both in Serbia and abroad, that the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I repeat what my colleague Zoran Krasic said here, cannot be a minister in the Serbian government who is not appointed to this post in this National Assembly. The fact that we Serbian radicals would not vote for Vuk Draskovic, or Zoran Stankovic, should not affect the assembly majority if it exists today in the Serbian parliament. You were able to choose, and you can still choose whoever you want. Of course, you were obliged first to pass a law on ministries, you skipped it, and that's why tonight at some vampire session, we're going to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you're going to try in some segments to replace the Ministry Act, and I'm warning you, my fellow Members and gentlemen of the Government, that these are all criminal acts. That first, the greatest crime, was committed by Vojislav Kostunica, it was a coup when he introduced these citizens into the government of the Republic of Serbia, and now you will through this budget, through the adoption of the budget rebalancing to, in a way, affirm those two citizens as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I repeat, these are not ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This division 29 refers exactly to the Department of Defense, that's the title. How does the Ministry of Defence in budget rebalancing, when the Ministry of Ministry Act does not exist, when the Serbian Constitution does not know the Ministry of Defence at the level of the Republic of Serbia. This is a really very interesting topic, and I can't believe it, I can't accept it, there are lawyers here, and there's a group that will vote for this budget rebalance, that they haven't reacted, that they haven't tried to convince their friends in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that they don't put them in a situation that once again, and this isn't the first time, the Assembly is an instrument in the hands of the Serbian Government, but it's your choice, and of course we'll talk about it very quickly in the election campaign and we'll explain to the citizens of Serbia what your relationship is to the state. And even when I hear one of you say we're a state-of-the-art party, then I really don't know what to say and how to react, when I think of what's really nowhere on the globe isn't remembered. You act as some kind of democratic party, you recognize democracy. You, my dears, have no idea what democracy is. It is not democracy to introduce two citizens into the Serbian government and say -- we have ministers, we have ministries. Democracy is the calling of elections when you don't have the majority to choose a minister, when someone conditiones you to leave the government and leave the assembly majority. Democracy, gentlemen, is the calling of elections, so after the election, the majority here will be able to change the laws, pass laws, finally establish a legal system and finally make this Serbia a rule of law. The government is in the section relating to the Ministry of Defence and we have intervened there, function 210, economic classification, where machines and equipment, you have foreseen a sum of 1,462,692,075 dinars, and we have suggested that this amount be increased to 2,184.104.075 dinars. And you're in the next department that has the title, the Military Intelligence Service, to detail what you're going to do under the Military Intelligence Service, what you're going to fix, what equipment you're going to get, what planes you're going to fix. It's just amazing that these things, which in every normal state represent a state secret, you present them in this way. It's transparent for you. You're the state's secret tender, you're the state's secret commissions, and what's every normal state's secret, you're here as transparent as. Your judges and your prosecutors are state, or official secret, the trial of Jovi Djog and another number of people suspected of helping a war crimes suspect, General Ratko Mladic. Is there a normal lawyer in that group, of course, I think there are a lot of good lawyers and a lot of good experts, honest people, but of course these special forces that you choose in some special departments, they're exclusively the regimeal instrumentalized judges and prosecutors, and they're going to be ashamed of their colleagues someday. Now no one sees if they're ashamed because they're driving in a armored car, followed by dozens of those who guard them, but one day they'll be ashamed of their colleagues, and they'll be ashamed of their families and their descendants. How can a judge conduct a procedure and advertise someone suspected and accused because he says he's helping someone with war crimes? Ratko Mladic, gentlemen, if you didn't know, was not convicted of war crimes. Of course, it won't be, because Carla del Ponte doesn't stand a chance, as much as you express her favor and promise, she won't be able to handle it. So how can someone help someone with war crimes when some war crimes haven't been committed? Fellow lawyers, the presumption of innocence is probably something you have to admit, it's a generally recognised and widely recognised legal principle. You have no right and your judges have no right to call Ratko Mladic a war criminal because he is not. If it is ever proven, only then can it be possible to match those who helped him with war crimes, I just don't know what it's like to hide a war crime, but of course you can do anything. You can close the courtroom, as you closed it at a time when war crimes were being debated in Ovcara, so you had your two protected witnesses there, so now that the public hearing before the Supreme Court is open, then you stayed found. When lawyers, witnesses, presented facts about the crimes committed by those two in Ovcara, who were protected witnesses, one number of innocent people was sentenced to years of imprisonment. So, like my colleague Zoran Krasic, I strongly recommend you, don't get involved with the government of the Republic of Serbia, you must not vote to define some of the funds of Serbian citizens as some kind of defence ministry that doesn't exist. We don't have, gentlemen, the Department of Defense, we don't have a Secretary of Defense. We should have, but you don't have the power to do that, you don't have enough MPs to choose those missing ministers, and you don't have the right to have the budget of the Republic of Serbia in this way. You do not have the right to acknowledge this way that Zoran Stankovic, the pulena Carla del Ponte, who says he condemns the one, the other day a beautiful poster published, where one Serbian officer saluts the poster Ratko Mladic. Who is he to advertise on behalf of some non-existent ministry? By allowing Vojislav Kostunica to cost Vojislav Kostunica not only in the elections, such acts are also criminally held accountable because they are crimes. Yeah, buddy, laugh, you should know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29466	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 7th of April, the 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted reads: Article 7 of Section 30 is deleted. I have to explain why, because there are people here who don't understand much simpler things than that and mostly sit on this side (shows left, where MPs sit in the ruling coalition). He's referring to the Foreign Ministry, to these people who are laughing right now, who don't understand what they're saying, so it would be good for them to listen or say something if they know. They usually have a custom, so they threw my past presentations out of place, but normally they can't go out for a pay phone and say anything. This applies to the Foreign Ministry and to more than a billion dinars being spent, given to anyone. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, you who laugh so hard that this is, in the simplest way, that the people of Serbia would understand, this is for prison. Even though what you've done, what you're all involved in, this isn't the problem you're supposed to go to jail for. Let me tell you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament that you intend to vote on this, that there is neither constitutional nor legal basis for funding these ministries. So, the basis for funding certain ministries is the Ministry Act which, as we know, you haven't adopted, which as we know you won't adopt, and as we know, you don't have enough majority. You know that, too. No one has been elected here in the Assembly, no one represents Serbia based on the votes of MPs, based on citizens' votes. A certain citizen, even more than one common lunatic goes to the world alone and presents Dan, Vlajka and Lucky, and for that you are now paying him. And then we still allow such a person, who brings up such things and talks about plan B for Kosovo and Metohija, so it's an ordinary case for Laza Lazarevic. You now want to reward it and pay with a large sum of money. Here, now I can say that I am the foreign minister, just like this man, would you give me 100,000 million to travel the world? Normally you wouldn't, but here you have some more interests to explain to the citizens. I'd like to invite you to a test to do, to have any of your deputies come out here and publicly say Vuk Draskovic is my foreign minister. Well, you guys shouldn't be coming home. Your family would drive you out of the house, throw you out of shame. No, it's easier to keep your mouth shut, from the place you throw, that you smile cynically, but you can't say. Here, I'm calling you again, come out and say it. I wish the citizens of Serbia knew he was your foreign minister. Since I'm convinced you can't say that, but you will still vote and give money to people like him. To get back to some other things, you've determined money with this budget rebalance for various variations, for various spending. I would not repeat what the MPs were saying earlier, it's already clear to all of us, so if we don't transfer RTS to RTS, there's a normal flow of honey and milk to RTS, but the good RTS has become a public service to European Serbia, so maybe people will believe it. TV shows that we live well, everything is building and flourishing, factories are opening up, and we don't have a total investment in Serbia to hire 200 people. There's always a promise, and there's nothing to be done. We've had a problem with the pensioners in the past. You almost destroyed the pensioners. You cut their pensions, you don't want to pay them because they're not your voters, that's what you think. You share people constantly, you have a problem with that, and we can't help you here. There are services that help people with psychological problems. Also, you've neglected the social services. You've given some of the resources that are very small. We have a lot of unemployment. Since you came to make us happy on October 5th, we have 800,000 more unemployed. You closed down the companies, you sold the best Serbian firms. What a normal host in Serbia is ashamed of when he sells something best, means in every village, in Vrsac from which I come, and in all other villages, when a man sells something worth selling, he never does. But some of them are laughing again, and I hope these G17 guys get out of here and say something, but they don't know anything. If they knew something, they'd be some party, and they wouldn't have 1%. Also, you fired several hundred thousand people and now what? Everybody's got 20 or 30 years of internships. Who's gonna take them? And you spend money, arches, smashes, and you don't create a new value where these people can work. You should be ashamed. History is going to judge, I believe they're already judging citizens right now, I don't believe it, I'm convinced, and you know it. Go to the armored cars at home, the black glass, you can't walk down the street. But that's your business. The money you spend, the ones you've been arching, you don't invest in any other stuff. We all know that we are facing the white plague in Serbia, with not enough children, that we are going to disappear biologically. Has anyone suggested in any of your NIPs or budgets that subsidize? It's not normal, because that's not what you're interested in. You've destroyed the economy. We don't have any new investments. I don't remember when the new investment in Serbia opened. Not to talk about your tycoons buying companies that have failed, which you first destroy, like Sartide, as you're about to do now in Bora, and then you buy, so like then you make it as an investment. Excuse me, gentlemen, it's not an investment. The people know it, if you don't know it doesn't matter much. There must be some funds to make the investments themselves. So much money has been spent in Serbia, and you don't give a single dollar to people to go, to get some money. In the last presentation, I said that several funds for the development of the economy, agriculture and others work local self-government, which are aware because they are in the field with citizens, know what their problem is and help them as much as possible. But unfortunately that's not enough, that's what the state needs to do. But you don't do that. We have different Batmans, as they call them, who talk about the NIP, who go there and promise in their own style "I'll do this to you, I'll do that." First you rob the state, and now they're gonna do something. Well, gentlemen, let me tell you, the National Investment Plan, which you so boast about, should come from a principle strategy that you normally don't have. You don't know how you want to develop a business. The strategy should be defined as the most profitable sectors of the economy, and then fully focused on the development of these sectors. Unfortunately, you don't do it and you have one problem. Where are all the loans you promised now, which you said you'd fix the economy and so on? We have one situation that we have $17 billion in debt, that we have no investment in Serbia, that loans are almost impossible, so no one can take them. When you ask any businessman in Serbia today, it means a large, small, medium or anyone, to give you five of the biggest problems in Serbia that are currently causing them, 95% of them will put in the first or second degree of unpaid demand from their customers, or problems with maintaining their own liquidity. In order to solve problems, they can be in debt to the banks, of course the credits to the banks are huge, they don't pay off, and it's going to destroy them and bring them back to square one. And those who exist, loans from state funds that we have to admit, at pretty good prices, can only be obtained by people who are close to party powers, who are mostly G17 plus, who are therefore getting money and are therefore in advantage of others. Now, do they use it for production or as some members of the G17, former ministers, take to buy a certain hero so they can resell, wash the money, that's already the thing we've been saying here a million times, and the citizens have already recognized it. Please, gentlemen, don't lie to the citizens of Serbia anymore. Mr. Krasic said the government fell a long time ago, we all know that, you know that. Unfortunately, this is where you drag yourself, you're ready for another day in the chair to endure if you need a little more noise and shame, that a little more people on the streets attack you, but what do we do? Everyone on their cheeks knows best how to care. Please finally come to your senses, get out of this room tonight and never come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29468	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Are you advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure or are you reporting by amendment? Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29469	Gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure, disrespect of the Assembly, have been injured. It's not as much a congregation as disrespect for my country. Steve really said that, as a banana, I really couldn't listen to what you were saying this time. You're probably gonna do well in the party for these things you said, but you really forgot the point. Here's something for the public to say. We really ran out of funds, we really ran out of money, but, Steve, we weren't working back then, but you were in power back then. This country is really saddened, but you supported it, you developed these war drums, those flags, you did it all, and now you've led us to our funds empty and we're poor, today no one respects us, that's what you've done to us. We got here just because of the police you had. You mention the hosts and those who sell, and your grandmother that he sold it all out, and then blame you for it, and he sold it all. That wouldn't be fair to Grandma or to you. Don't mess things up. Because of the public, I'm just saying, where we're at right now, we're trying to get that car out of the mud. I like a constructive discussion, when you really know, when you're discussing, when you say what incomes are, what resources are, where are the costs, that you wouldn't give on this, I accept that, these are constructive suggestions and I would understand that. But if you're really reducing this, it's still not fair and it's not nice. I'm not gonna answer, and I don't want to talk to you about it, but I've told Steve a little bit more about it, what the tulips say, I'll say Lalinski, to think about it when he talks, that you don't really get confused. I agree, professionally attack the budget, we're here to defend it, we're here to discuss, to see what's better, to find a solution, but don't use some things that don't deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29470	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29471	Mr. Chairman, thank you for getting my word, because I wanted to speak yesterday, but the minister was probably out of the office, so I said at the pay phone that I would speak when he was Minister in the O.R. We have a problem and I want to talk about it. Probably our national programme envisions a programme to build many infrastructures in Serbia. Now it's questionable whether there was a way in, and somewhere else, but it would be good to do something about it. It will be done in Serbia, conditions for living in those areas will be improved, where such construction occurs. The investment and national programme should certainly be added to the problems that arise in the meantime, because what was planned, which are the municipalities of the rules of their programmes, ministries, etc., I want to ask one question, is there any means for intervention, if something happens in the meantime, which is unplanned. What I'm about to talk about, don't put up with delays. In the municipality of Merošin, in the village of Batusinac, the bridge on Moravi was damaged, a pillar fell, and that is a village bordering the municipality. The people of the village have only two or three kilometres to reach the market, and these are well-organised agricultural producers that have the largest production, perhaps in southern Serbia, in the vegetables and have to circle every morning from hundreds of vehicles, to go 15km to get to the market. And I'm saying it's all about the goods producers. The municipality is unable to do this on its own, without help can't and I don't know, probably find a little money to fix it and build it, the size of the bridge isn't great, because it would shorten the great torments of those peasants from that part. Also, from that village, manufacturers across Morava have their own estates and imagine you, to go to work on your field, which is mostly gardens, since they're next to Morava, you need to go 15 kilometers to come to your garden. I ask you, Minister, to try, whether it will be through a national programme, whether emergency interventions, in some way, find the means to resolve this issue. The municipality has been considering it for two or three months, trying to build a temporary bridge, a Ponton bridge, and it takes about two million a month to cost the municipality the use of that bridge. If that's the case and we solve this problem that way, then the entire Meroshina municipality budget will go to use the bridge across Morava. So I see that there are huge resources in this plan, that there's money, and we need to find some money to end it. Here, I tried to explain it, because we have a mission from these people, they asked me to take advantage of the minister's presence and say that about this pay phone, so that maybe we can find a solution to shorten the pain of these agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29472	Minister Dinkic has a word, so Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29473	I'll give the MP an answer right away. A total of 437m euros were allocated from the National Investment Plan for Transport Infrastructure, which includes local small bridges by the end of next year. Given that this bridge, mentioned in your presentation, is certainly important for Meroshina, the way to finance it is this: that, together with the Ministry of Capital Investments, Merošina Municipalitys will create a project and then, in fact, it will be delivered to the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the project to the extent of the funds. Serbia currently has enough funds to literally restore in all Serbia's cities, literally in all Serbia's places, everything that hasn't been invested in infrastructure for years. It's important to set priorities. You in Meroshina know best what is a priority for you; for what you are looking for must be done project, determine how much funding is needed and the Republic Government will certainly do so. Otherwise, during today's debate, there was a question of what it was like with 2.1 billion euros, how much we achieved surplus this year. He says an SRS MP doesn't know where it is, that it's not reportedly in the budget. I can only tell you that whoever said that can't read the budget, given that the overall structure is higher than the privatisation income and budget surplus is given very detailedly in the budget. The fact is, over the previous years, we haven't had this much surplus, but that's exactly why we gave the rebalancing a much more detailed explanation than it's ever been given before. In fact, a billion 675m euros will be invested through the National Investment Plan projects, but not this year, as the MP says he sees only 400m euros, or 33 billion dinars. That's true, but if you've read the budget, you've seen that we've introduced more budget planning and that we have investments in both this and next year, so the total amount is 675m euros for the National Investment Plan. Also, in the public debt section, we have made it clear that the government's intensity is to continue to reduce external debt, as it has done in recent years. It's four times lower than it was five years ago, but we intend to pay off one part of the public debt before the time. It already makes the National Bank of Serbia pay back billions of dollars to the IMF. We are now in a situation that we will no longer depend on the IMF's loan at all. They were also very welcome three or four years ago, when the country was moving towards reforms. Now that the foreign exchange reserves are over $10 billion, there's really no need for us to take anything from the IMF, on the contrary, we'll get it back before the deadline. It's a similar situation with other creditors. That's why we decided to return about $580 million to the World Bank prematurely. In addition, we are negotiating a exchange of debts for investments with our creditors. Yesterday, the first such agreement was signed from the Serbian government package, which is the replacement of 25m euros owed to the German government for 5.5m investments in the remote heating system in Serbia under a system that protects the environment. With that, of course, we'll continue. When reading the budget, things have to be viewed in a dynamic context. In fact, 2.1 billion euros is the state of the day when we were doing budget rebalances, and in two months, another 320m euros will blend into our register, in Serbia's state register, after selling a third mobile phone license. In addition, a tender for privatisation of Serbia's Oil Industry has been prepared, and a tender for the privatisation of the DDOR is under way. So there will be far more income in the future. When the 2007 budget is considered, then we will talk about plans to invest in the following year. Anyway, what needs to be done in the next period... It is not a credit problem, as the previous SRS MP said, because he now has enough credit. It is true that interest rates should be lower and it is true that the collection of claims must be better, however, it cannot be helped by people who deal with finance, but must be further strengthened by the judicial system and the security of business people, and not only by them, but also by citizens. And this government has made some moves. Remember what happened to the bankruptcy mafia - she's in jail. You see what happened to the road mob, which you tolerated -- here they are in prison. What happened to Karic, whom you tolerated, he fled, but after him is an APB. So, not everything is ideal and I'm not personally satisfied, because there are many people who have wronged the law and which law must arrive at that hour, as reforms take place. However, Serbia will soon get a new constitution. In addition to all those values that you and our prime minister have spoken about so far, he has brought along the paper in the area of judicial reform. The paper will be established by constitutional law, a law implementing the constitution, where, in accordance with the strategy for implementing judicial reform, a mandatory re-election of judges in the next two terms, over a period of five years. This means that judges who are honest, honest and courageously doing their job will, of course, be re-elected, that is, be determined by the mechanism and criteria of how re-election is done, but that is why those who have gone astray will not be able to remain there. There was a big problem with the Trade Court, for the simple reason that before time the previous assembly passed such laws that gave full independence to the judiciary before there were people in courts who would not abuse that independence. Independence of the judiciary is needed, but in the mature phase of the development of society. One judge protects the other judge, one council protects the other judges, and you can't untangle that system. Malten, Kljajevic wouldn't have ended up in jail if he hadn't been caught in the act. He couldn't have been removed, not to end up in prison, while the police, who monitored these activities, which is a police job, had not collected enough evidence, based on which the procedure was initiated and began to unwind. There have been many objections in previous years to the work of the police ministry, but what the police did in our government, whether or not the minister liked someone, has not happened in Serbia in the past decades. I really think the police have done their job very well, especially given the difficult conditions under which they work. However, still one part of the judiciary, not the whole, is not at the height of its task, but in all transition countries it goes on time. People say that it is necessary to stimulate people to work better, so we have also foreseen in this budget rebalancing the salary increase; we have proposed, and you have adopted, a law on salaries in the state administration that significantly increases salaries for all those who work in the state administration. However, this period in which we are located is such that, on the one hand, we finally have stable incomes, and it is good that we have extra income, which allows us to lower inflation. We've had negative inflation for the third month and it hasn't fallen from the sky, but it's the result of these measures being implemented by the government and the central bank. So this year inflation will not only be projected, 9.3% on an annual basis, but will be lower than it. As we have suggested, tomorrow the Ministry of Energy will propose to the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Finance, and we will accept that the cheap oil derivatives at the pumps in Serbia. The exact number is that over four dinars per litre of diesel fuel will be from Saturday's cheaper oil derivatives, which is something that will bring down October inflation by 0.45% and indeed now we have the opportunity to start economic development in stable conditions. So this doesn't sound too optimistic, because all things aren't pink and a lot of people are out of work, and that's the next phase, because that's the biggest problem, not interest and non-availability of credit, but still a lot of people don't have a job. But the only way for them to get a job is for this National Investment Plan to be implemented, to be implemented by this and the future government. If you gentlemen are radically concerned about the fate of us from our government, that's your problem, because the citizens know what who's talking. Well, it's a good thing you're talking about, but in the end, citizens know how to do it. In the end, not those who tell empty stories will be appreciated, but those who have done something for this Serbia and left it in an amanet for Serbia's future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29474	The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, and then, on the occasion of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29475	After this involvement in RTS, where everything is nice, we return to the harsh reality. Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov, I don't know which party you're from, you may not know which party you're from, but I know I'm a Serbian radical. I think I'm an honest and honest citizen and a patriot, who's having a hard time watching you destroy and sell out Serbia. It probably can't come to your senses, but it doesn't matter, I'm just warning you. Please, I'm not your friend, and I'll never be your friend, so I'd ask you not to call me such a brotherly name, because it could be misread by the people. I just want to remind all of you domiciles that you're six years in charge. Do you know what six years it is? For six years, you promised not six, but 60 billion dollars, and you owed us 10 billion. That's what citizens need to be reminded of, even though they know it. You sold and closed hundreds of companies, or you sold the best and you closed the rest. I'll list only a few companies you've closed in Vrsac, because that's where I come from: "MO", "Klus", "Teach," "Zenit". That's a million and a half unemployed people. Before there were 600,000 or 700,000 unemployed, I'm not saying it was good before, but you've caused an accident to this people. So, you lucky people have caused one terrible accident to these people and now the question is who are you lying to here? We're not worth lying about, citizens aren't worth lying about, maybe you're lying about yourself, so you have some motive to go to the election then, I don't know. Perhaps you will create a party hierarchy after attacking Serbian Radical Party MPs, and perhaps you will. Probably appreciate it, though, I don't know which party, but it doesn't matter. If that's the situation used to be, you say it's our fault, why don't you just grant credits without interest now and why don't you help people, why don't you help people who aren't in the G17 plus party? We all know how these funds work and how loans are shared, or we know who can get them. It's regional loans, republican loans, and you have to be in very good relations with G17 plus to get them. People know that, they heard that, and maybe you know that, but it doesn't matter. When you have a surplus, as you say, for two years, you keep calling yourself west, there are tax breaks in the west, where are the tax breaks for two years? It'll cover the economy, people get hired, and what do you do? Every day more and more people lose their jobs. How long do you think the people will put up with what you're doing? I can tell you that your best option would be to have Serbian radicals come to power, then you're just going to jail, God forbid the citizens come behind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29476	Thank you. Minister Mladjan Dinkic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29477	Thank you for asking me these questions. Namely, the basic characteristic of you and your party is that you do not deal with facts, but you speak at random. Public debt was 9.5 billion euros in 2000, I apologize, today is a public debt of 9.5 billion euros on July 31st this year. In 2000, the public debt was 15 billion euros, which means that it decreased 5.5 billion euros in absolute terms, and compared to the gross domestic product from 170% to below 40, that is over four times. Not only is the country not in charge, it's in debt. You didn't, though, and you didn't, and I'm going to be completely honest with you, and they were in charge of it nineties ago, when those loans were taken, but you didn't owe it, but that debt stood, we had isolation, we had no relationship with international financial organisations. However, after the start of the transition, public debt has been reduced four times. Gross domestic product was $800 per capita in 2000, today is $4,000, in 2006. It is not some gross domestic product we should be proud of, because Croats have between six and six and a half thousand, and Slovenians 12-13 thousand, however, are far better than they were before. Although we are here in front of Bulgarians and Romanians, it is indeed a national disaster for them to enter the EU next year, and we are not there yet, because we have lost ugly years in vain negotiations on the SCG community and some other things that were not important. In the end, we are slowly catching up with the Croats and I guarantee that Serbia will find the strength to reach Croatia at its level in the next four or five years, because the Croats are making progress one, two percent a year, and we, at seven, eight percent a year, and that is our goal, to reach them at the level of economic development. As for interest-free loans, this government has introduced several such credit forms, not interest-free, but with a symbolic interest of 0.5% – housing loans for young people (independence of who they are, what professions they are, under the age of 45, all can receive these credits with 0.5% interest), and loans to Bor, Vranje and Kragujevac. Don't talk about municipalities where G17 plus is in power. Ask the president of the Vranje municipality, he's a socialist, but he's doing great, he's really doing great, I can say, I'll never say he's doing bad work just because he's from some political party that I don't belong to. If someone's doing a good job, they'll congratulate the man. He, along with our government, is on his way to solve the problem of Jumka now, to hire four thousand people in Vranj, with a serious firm. It really is a very agile man, and that's why a man has won the Vranj elections two, three times, no one can get close to him. Then, as far as tax breaks are concerned, it was you gentlemen who voted, although the radicals were against it, but everyone else, most of the congregation voted for tax reliefs that lower pay taxes and allowed young people to be employed for up to 30 years without paying taxes and contributions. Yesterday, State Secretary Vladimir Ilic presented information that in just three weeks since the application of the regulation, 320 young people have been employed in Serbia under the law since 1 September. It's only three weeks. One can say that 300 new employees are not some number, however, only three weeks have passed. I'm sure we've tried, and I'm sure we'll succeed, to distribute that surplus into three things: tax cuts, foreign debt returns and infrastructure investments under the National Investment Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29478	I thank Mr Dinkic. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29479	Only one correction, perhaps the minister misunderstood, may have misread his own, but the growth of the gross domestic product is based mainly on the increase in value of trade and services, as well as taxes, or new values, i.e. to legalise the work of the gray economy. The growth of gross domestic product is not based on the growth of investment, production, which I was talking about, but is the logical consequence of this policy that you have implemented so far, fiscal and credit-restrictive macroeconomic policies. I talked all the time about no investment in Serbia, and you prove there is, and there is no investment in new jobs, and you prove there is. Thank God, citizens themselves know how much work they have and where they're employed in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29480	Thank you. Zoran Krasic has a word. You have six and a half minutes, please, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29481	Mr. Angelkovic, you were probably informed that we were meeting with a member of the 7th division of the 30th - Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The government official had to talk about the foreign ministry, not the grandmother. To go in order, the bankruptcy mafia was not destroyed, but one group of tycoons, dissatisfied with the work of one number of judges, created a picture that only they were a bankruptcy mob, and the other was another. It's no different than "Sabre. " In Sabre, one mob was supposed to replace another. That's what we can talk about. You know I've been very well informed. Something tells us about Mr. Dinkic. From this pay phone for a year I kept asking you and finishing speeches – when are you going to arrest Dinkic... No, it's Karic. That'll be for the next government. For half a year, I finished every speech with a sentence – when you will arrest Karic, and you said – it can't do that, no, no. Then I don't know why you're talking. Then it's called the Road Mafia. Did Mr. Dinkic make a mistake? Where did he find the road mob? In whose vault? At Velya Ilic's. Don't have the insecureness in the government to clean through us, so the radicals come to blame for everything. He had a fight with Velya, what he can't say to Veli says to the radicals. It says – unfortunately, Bulgaria received. What's wrong with international relations? It says – we will catch up with Croatia. We don't chase Croatia. What would we be after Croatia? If the vice president hears him, he'll be in danger. Under Section 30, there is no re-election of judges under the new constitution. This is where we heard it was a major disturbance. No one knows what's in that new constitution. We heard some preambles and two or three members. Here he is, demonstrating a great knowledge of the draft constitution. He knows better the draft constitution than the Hiber who wrote it. It must be known that action has been taken to avoid being elected President of the Kljajevic Trade Court, but was saved by Labus. You know, you G17 plus members of the Justice Committee, there were conversations on the subject. Let's go back to division 30. So we don't have the foreign ministry, but we have the cost of Vuk Draskovic. This cost of Vuk Draskovic will cost this country, according to rebalancing... During 2006, Mr Draskovic, a citizen of Draskovic, in a joint criminal enterprise with persons who are represented to work there, such as Radoslav Stojanovic, is now in The Hague, so this year, if these two areas and all these positions are taken, they will cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 3.8 billion dinars. Explain to me what the effects of Vuk Draskovic's foreign policy are. Yesterday I was listening on a show, he said he didn't know anything about the constitution, whatever they were asking him, he doesn't know anything. No one's communicating with him, and he doesn't know anything. So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when they buy milk, when they buy anything in the store, they finance in a certain proportion to a certain percentage of what Vuk Draskovic doesn't know anything. What's his foreign policy? She's a disaster for the state. What citizen received foreign protection from the Foreign Ministry? None. By the way, we've got some consulate officers stealing in Germany so they're declared undesirables. Mr. Draskovic (only slowly, you can go out for this pay phone to say what you have) in the course of this year, on behalf of the expenses for official travel, will spend 100,995,000 dinars. This is within the foreign ministry; under diplomatic and consular representations, there should probably be a more justified cost of official travel, 46.5 million. So, the entire diplomatic and consular service, as you can see, spends twice as much on official trips as Vuk Draskovic with that group of people -- the most senior management of the Serbian Renewal Movement. I don't know, when we look at the books, we'll see where and how he traveled, why he'd always freeze like that, probably from the trip. We're funding a ministry from which we have damage, we're no use. He went there, signed something; went there, blabbed something; went to a third place, confessed something. It is likely that those in the Serbian government are also holding their heads together, only they must not say publicly, what the poor are going to do, such is their coalition partner. It's a problem of coalition capacity. It is such a strong coalition capacity that Vuk Draskovic can also be a foreign minister, i.e. a citizen who is represented as a foreign minister. His ministry is not there either, he is not on the government site of the Republic of Serbia under the structure of the ministries of the Republic of Serbia; he has it on some exterior website, he gave that beautiful biography. Just so you know, he was born on November 29th 1946 in Serbia. He was not born, like all normal citizens, in some place, but in Serbia. It's funny to you, but the state is saddened when that man is the foreign minister. I hope, Mr. Angelkovic, that I have most adhered to this section number 30, to which this amendment applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29482	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. On page 7, the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, here you go, Dragoljub Anastasia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 – in Article 7 of Section 37 of the 470 functions, is deleted. But before I start talking about this, maybe it's even a little stupid, 'cause after the Minister's word, I think it's pointless to talk. We're such a rich country that there's no need for parliament anymore, no one, we've had enough of the finance minister and we'll be fine. Now he's convinced us that the foreign debt has been cut by 5.5 billion. However, the minister forgot that since 2000, since the arrival of DOS to power, more than half of Serbia has been sold out and that there is no more state-owned, our bank. I'm surprised it's not true... Well, my people, you have to wonder what the minister is telling us here. He's telling us some fairy tales here. These are stories for little kids, and she wouldn't believe it either. Budget surplus. We owe both to God and the people, and we have a surplus, imagine, please. Pensioners without pensions and people on the bureaus don't get six months behind, what little money they owe them, and we're in surplus, and that's nice, but let's keep doing this for the pay phone. The Serbian Radical Party is against the establishment of the agency, especially when both the political and financial situation in the country is very difficult, not to say alarming. Given that all agencies are financed from the budget, we should know how much the agency has been formed so far, how they have done business in the past period, whether and how much profits they have achieved, or whether they have achieved the expected results and justified the reasons for which they have been formed. All of this reminds me of some of the times some of them formed theOURs. They sifted businesses to open up as many executive jobs as possible. They satisfied the appetites of some. That's what you do. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. The formation of agencies for all and all things, which will employ relatives, friends and normal party activists, whether necessary or not, creates an expensive and inefficient part of the state apparatus, which will not justify expectations, but will therefore add to the budget and thus increase the costs of the state administration. This is why the SRS won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29484	Thank you. Zoran Krasic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29485	Mr. Angelkovic, I don't want to talk about Vuk Draskovic. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29486	I was just trying to help you out that he was born in the county of Campus and his name was Vuko and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29487	I just want to warn you what he put in his autobiography.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29488	All I wanted to do was help, that the municipality of Surf was the place of his birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29489	He wrote it on the site, and all I know is he changed his date to be born on November 29th. But he wrote there that he was born in Serbia. Look, citizens, the site of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you will see what Vuk Draskovic wrote for himself. Mr Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment relating to Article 7, divided 37 functions 470. Let me make that simple, this applies to the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure. The total planned funds for the agency are by the end of this year, by rebalance, 295 million dinars and something. I'm really sorry, there are very small numbers here, and this light, so nothing can be seen, but I don't think I've really done much wrong. The funds are on the economic classification - donations and transfers to other levels of government. It is explained that the funds provided mainly on the basis of the donations provided by the European Agency for Reconstruction are. What it's reconstructing for us -- probably what we've been destroyed, not just by NATO bombing, but by stopping development. Just so you know that one kind of genocide is when such conditions of life are imposed on one nation, or Serbian citizens, to deny them the right to develop. Why am I saying this? Because some authority has initiated proceedings before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The suit was neither rejected nor rejected, but a decision on the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice was taken as a previous question. They found how to solve it, so they said that by 2000, November, when Kostunica applied for us to be admitted to the United Nations, the SRJ was in undefined status and could not be a member of the International Court of Justice, it is a member of 34th and 35th, and has no right to protect against the International Court of Justice. The decision is very important, not because we failed to achieve that compensation, and I think there was more than 30 billion direct damage during NATO aggression, but because it had to affect the legal views of the so-called. a historical context in all cases conducted in The Hague tribunal. Of course, that didn't happen, because international law is quite selective and predetermined law, so Serbs are tried there, even when in direct television, citizens can laugh because they see how many lies our citizens are accused of. So, donations are given by whoever bombed us, but that's the American policy strategy -- they run over the country first, and then they show humanity. We're not the exception, from Granada, wherever she set foot in that boot scenario was like that. Now I ask the question – why does this budget user not have a National Investment Plan? Why don't you put extra funds through it for the development of municipal infrastructure, and pools and sports playgrounds, why go over that agency? You formed her, you had the intention of that agency doing something. When it comes to the transfer of funds coming from abroad, we have a kind of crowd with the competent social authorities. For some things, he wants the Parivodić involved, and it goes through his ministry, because while Pitic was there, it went through the ministry; it is not by changing Pitic that the jurisdiction was lost. Then there's the Ministry of Finance, who wants to see it all, then there's the Ministry of Capital Investment. Why isn't the National Investment Plan in place as a regular item? With the National Investment Plan, you can't find an accounting plan, so to speak, the formula, so you say capital project. What exists in the Law on the Budgetary System and for which there was no need to be embezzled, it seems to me, in Article 16 paragraph 1 point 4). How are these funds being spent? It's a miracle. I'd invite you to go to the Red Cross municipality in Nis, where the construction director of the town of Nisa performed work on paved roads, and that's where they invented the traffic sign - the lamppost on the way. When they spread in August, they stayed in the gangers, so they put asphalt around the gangster and now people have to get along while they're going home. Just to tell you who did it, one great expert, a Banana from Nis, Jovanovic, a member of the SP, DS, DSS, and now he's in the G17 plus, you might have kicked him out. If you pushed him out, you didn't do anything wrong. He's been in Nis for 15 years, just so you know. That's how experts pave the street to cover someone's eyes, but they forget the bandits, the metal ones and the concrete ones. How are these funds used? Why wasn't that done by some law, by some standard? I guess there's a building permit, a valid permit, did anyone give a used permit? Has anyone seen these papers, who was in charge? Who controlled the payment? A simple question, no answer. The answer floats all around us – corruption at every turn. It's a perfectly normal phenomenon of this kind of democracy. This kind of democracy reproduces corruption with it and is found in its kind of co-habitation, corruption and this kind of democracy; it's all seen as democratic and it's some value, and here's what's done. No intention of replicating anyone, but that bridge on Moravi could best be solved if Mr. Markovic called the local elections. Believe me, on the day of the application forms, Vela would come with the machine to fix that pillar and make that bridge possible. Not then, as Foodslav said, two million each month should be used for alternative solutions, and the problem is if a man needs 15 kilometers to cross to his garden, field or go to the market. Is that what someone needs to warn the state? For everything we've noticed, and it's a state function, state importance, we have to warn or act like the old one, it's said that what's crying from two mothers tits. So no one's gonna take care of the kid until he's crying. As long as it takes to cry, now it's a question of when it's DOS. What do you need? One hectolitre of tears or two drops? When it comes to this policy that's being implemented, there's no hectolitres, no two drops, no tears help. Those people don't see that that's the problem. They are considering Euro-Atlantic integration. Unfortunately, the Bulgarians will be before us. We're going to catch up with these guys and we're going to get there and we're going to write in some statistic about how we are for some index point in front of someone, as far as one or two parameters out of two thousand possible parameters. This is the policy – it holds water...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29490	I thank Mr. Krasic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 38 amendments was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete 38 of the 410 functions in article 7. In Section 38 of Article 7 of this rebalancing, it states that the Agency for Foreign Investments and Promotion of Exports amounting to 71 million dinars is financed. That amount of money in some analysis can be large, and probably the proponent of this rebalancing means nothing, because the proponent in the principle comment was so praised by the Ministry of Finance and himself that all of us sitting here and Serbian citizens don't have to do anything, we're so rich, as he pointed out. He said that we're standing well right now and that for ten months we can import all kinds of goods, that's how much money we have on stock. Foreign reserves and not to mention, and we're rich here, so that's how we keep inflation in one digit, and that inflation will be. That's all, in fact, in principle, that's all farce. When you go into the field and you look the truth into your eyes, you can't believe if it's a minister like a television star and who he does it all for, when citizens on the ground can't pay for electricity, kids can't train, they don't have money for heat, and winter comes. This famous consumer basket, which, like a rapper financial unit, has become vacant and it is not enough to feed an individual and family. So, programically, the SRS is against setting up agencies for all sorts of things, because it's expensive, and it's a little efficient part of the state's apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the work of the agencies and thus increase the costs of the state administration. I will list only a few agencies financed by this rebalancing: the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure needs 225 million dinars; the Recycling Agency needs 44 million dinars; the Agency for Energy Efficiency; it needs 63 million dinars, etc. Not to mention, these agencies, so they serve as some kind of bypass to draw up budget funds and hire party workers. Now you've invented, imagine the respected citizens of Serbia, the National Investment Plan. Most of the time, you act like one, put a new word or a term on the air, and you wave how positive, creative, quality, that your roses are blooming, that everything is in order, and that's essentially not the case. We're in charge of the state, so probably our kids will be in awkward situations about how to repay those debts. If it continues like this, we'll probably owe all the material goods of Serbia, and in the end we'll only have naked lives left. Those Western bosses are likely to need naked lives so they can enjoy their blessings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29492	I thank Parliamentarian Vitomir Plužarevic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 7 of section 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29493	Before I say anything about this amendment, that is, before I explain it in any detail, I must say to the public that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. Here's the evidence. National MPs received the government's opinion ten minutes ago on amendments to the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. We, dear gentlemen, have concluded a debate yesterday on the proposal for this law. There is no business opportunity to say anything about the bill's proposal, or amendments, or perhaps we can say, but the debate is over and nothing more can be done in terms of some communication between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. This has really gone beyond what the government has done to us so far. We talked about this for days, and yesterday, or today, the government was sitting down or they had it ready somewhere, so it occurred to them to bring it to us. And when they discussed this, I assume they were discussing the amendments we're talking about today, which doesn't at least remember 10 minutes ago bringing us the government's opinion on the budget rebalances? Maybe it wouldn't be too late to talk about it. This is the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly, which of course means that such a relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, because we are here national representatives and the Government would have to respect us. But we're not used to it from this government. This was just a press release. When Minister Dinkic appeared earlier and fled and returned again and when he stopped for this pay phone, I was convinced, as tomorrow was a day off for the Parliament by the Rules of Procedure, that Dinkic would say goodbye to the MPs, since he was running out of time from that promise. Here he was saying that some MPs, some MP groups, are looking towards the SRS parliamentary group, are saying something, and they don't keep their word when they promise something. The minister said so and did not blink, and he firmly promised to leave the government on October 1st if negotiations do not continue. The negotiations obviously cannot continue, because you have not met the requirement you cannot meet, you cannot find Ratko Mladic. We're sorry. This is ironically speaking, of course, we're not sorry you can't find it and we know you won't be able to do it in the future. I don't see how Minister Dinkic here can tell us about this budget rebalancing, that he's talking about how the government is going to dispose of these funds, where he's going to spend what he's going to invest in. How does Dinkic know when he's only two days' minister? Of course, if he's a man of his word. Here he comes, now he's going to say, "Goodbye, I'm going." Dragan Colic's amendment refers to Article 7. (in fact, almost all the amendments to this article) division 41, function 360. Our colleague from the SRS, from our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Colic suggested that this be deleted, which is why – because this applies to the committee for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations. That, remember, some of them were in this House then, some of them weren't, but in any case, they talked in public a few years ago about this famous lustration commission. That's what it was called in the jargon. The law was passed, the commission was never formed. She was trying to do something to Natasa Micic, she was giving some suggestions to the MPs here, and then she was taking it faster or better off the agenda because we were getting letters from some of the people she suggested in that commission. People's MPs received letters saying that someone didn't want to take part in the job. This commission has neither been formed nor will be formed, nor has it done anything so far, nor will it do what it does in the future. Minister Dinkic, I ask you why, then, did you predict the spending of 550,000 people's money on this commission? Who's gonna spend that money and whose pocket's gonna go that money if the commission doesn't exist and nothing works? I would also like to ask, for the sake of fellow Members of the People's Parliament and for the public, when it comes to human rights and human rights violations, how can it not occur to one of you to speak a word publicly about the violation of the human rights of the SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj? As none of the government's ministers said so in public, except for one minister who made a statement to the Serbian Radical Party's "Greater Serbia" newspaper. No one else answered. Do you know, gentlemen, that the Hague tribunal, that Cheveningen, a new European Guantanamo, is that there is no one there to take care of a man, that there are fundamental human rights being violated in the most harsh way possible? Do you know that Vojislav Seselj has been in The Hague for almost four years, that the trial has not begun, that in these four years, his rights have been violated in the most harsh way possible by being forbidden to communicate with the public, that he has not been able to see either his children or his wife or anyone from his party or his party friends for seven months. Do you know that Vojislav Seselj was transferred to some special unit that didn't belong to the UN, which was some sort of prison for the Dutch justice ministry? Did you know that the health of Vojislav Seselj in this Cheveningen, in this European Guantanamo, was not taken into account when he was transferred to that special unit, in which he had no daylight, in which he had no air? So we've been informing you about all this, and you haven't responded. What happened a few days ago is the highlight of human rights violations and that on the globe is not remembered – that someone who is accused of something is not allowed to defend himself. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's public, Vojislav Seselj is not allowed to defend himself against The Hague tribunal. We know why it's like that. Vojislav Seselj, with the help of his defence team, which I belong to, and it is my real honor, has prepared his defense, published over 20 books and, of course, in those books, there are many things that they do not want to hear from either the representatives of the government in Serbia or the representatives of the previous DOS regime, and of course they do not want to hear from those in The Hague, does not want to hear the world's public. We shall promote in every place what is the defense of Dr. Vojislav Seselj. We go from city to city in Serbia, we promote his books, we get to know the citizens of Serbia about it, and you gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you gentlemen who swear to democracy, let it serve you the honor of not having thought to at least some public statement to protect the fundamental human rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Seselj. As far as this amendment is concerned, I once again ask the minister, and I hope he answers me, where this money is going for this non-existent commission. Given that the minister will try to finish our working day, I will remind him of what I asked him three times yesterday, both in presence and in his absence – what did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do when they are unemployed in Serbia? The fact that you, Minister, are talking about single-digit inflation and new jobs has nothing to do with reality in Serbia. It is true that in Serbia today there are almost a million unemployed and that the number has increased by 2%; it is true that the purchasing power of Serbian citizens has fallen by 3%. I really don't know where you're getting your statistics from. You just go out and say that inflation is single-digit, and that has nothing to do with the actual data on which it's calculated and based on which real economists can explain it. You have not said anything and have not responded to what has been done through this budget and through the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for more than 800,000 Serbian citizens living below the poverty level, and you all know what that means. This means that they are mostly hungry people, as well as those 30,000 children, statistics show that they do not have a third meal. What have you done and what will you do, Mr. Minister, you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with Serbs displaced from their hearths, whether from Krajina, from the territory of the former Bosnia and Herzegovina or from Kosovo and Metohija? You weren't today when I passed on the question of a group of citizens living in the Kingdom who worked in Kosovo and Metohija in social enterprises, who have been living for two and a half years on 4,000 dinars from the National Employment Service. So these are questions, Minister Dinkic, for you, for Vojislav Kostunica, for the entire government of the Republic of Serbia and only one who can answer these questions, who can help solve these problems can stand before the citizens of Serbia and can tell you, you gentlemen who say you are very strong, you order polls, you increase your percentages of popularity, we all acknowledge you, call the elections and see who Serbian citizens want to show confidence and who Serbian citizens believe in. You will go out and say it again. It is your fault, it is your fault. Mr Dinkic, in order not to replicate, I know exactly what you're going to say, I'm going to repeat what my colleagues have been saying – you are the six-year government in the Republic of Serbia, in six years, you could have at least one step ahead of this Serbia, not to sink deeper and deeper every day. I'd still like you, Minister Dinkic, to explain to us how four days ago you knew that the fuel would be collected when we passed the fuel price bill here based on some parameters at European level. Does this mean that you have previously accumulated fuel, which I am convinced of, by some amount that was yours, and then now to say citizens – God, good minister, here, has reduced our fuel price. Say, since you're the minister to this day, how much fuel has been accumulated, not to say from 2000 to today. Once again, because in a few hours the electoral silence comes, I would like to warn and call on the citizens of Leskovec, Gornji Milanovac, Barajev, Despotovac, Žabar and Doljevac to go to local elections on Sunday, to choose local government without corruption, the authorities of honest people, to choose Serbian radicals, and soon, if God so, we will also be the government at the level of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29494	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29495	Mrs. Radeta, I'm not gonna talk about what radicals are guilty of, because everybody knows that. I'll answer the questions you just asked. I'm proud of what we did in some sectors, in the finance sector. Somewhere it wasn't what we wanted; when we talk about unemployment, you're right, it's the biggest problem, but we inherited that problem from you, we inherited from the previous period. Did we do something about it? We did. Maybe it's not enough, sure it can do more, but I'll give you some information that came from my service in the meantime. Someone asked what the Development Fund was doing to invest and hire. In the last year and a half, 4.3 billion dinars have been placed in investments in various businesses across Serbia, 10,000 new jobs have been opened, so 10,000 people have been employed. These are not any jobs, but quality jobs, in companies that have perspective. The fact is that in the process of transition, in the privatisation process of a company that has failed because they lost market or for some other reason, of course, they remain slowly unemployed, they are paid the social programme, but, on the other hand, the state has to invest in new jobs in order for people to find jobs in companies that can sell their products and based on these 4.3 billion dinar investments invested by the Development Fund, which is a republican fund, 10,000 people have found a job. Is that enough? It is not and certainly necessary to invest even more, to credit even more, especially in less developed areas, in order to increase the number of employees. In September, we placed a billion dinars on the basis of the competition, these are micro-credits for self-employment, 2,700 new jobs are open on this basis. So 2,700 new jobs aren't something we can be satisfied with, but it is a shift. Also, when you mention inflation, you ask why I'm taking this data. Well, here, citizens don't have to trust me, they don't have to trust you, they have to go to every shift and see what the course is today, what it was six months ago, so they'll see that the dinar is tighter than it was six months ago. And as for the store, of course we have people who are different material conditions and is the task of both our and future governments to help, above all, those who have a bad material condition. But on average, real wages in the first seven months of this year have increased 9.6%, realistically when inflation is taken away. However, in the private sector 19% and in the non-economic sector 5.4%. Today we made a decision in the government, because we had a strict policy of saving at the bar, to allow the institutions of culture and other institutions of local self-government to increase their wages starting this month, because we have strictly held that mass so far we will continue to do so. However, conditions have been obtained that those local self-governments that had no room to raise salaries realize this starting this month. Also, when we talk about stability, except foreign exchange reserves, you can see with your bare eyes, no more street dealers. In your day, they were on every corner. Now we still have one stability. We can and should talk about those problems that have not been solved, such as Kosovo and Metohija, which is also a legacy from the previous period, such as other problems, such as unemployment, and that is something we will definitely be dealing with. If you're asking how I knew the fuel would be cheap, not expensive, but cheap, and for the third time in the last month and a half, I don't know if you're following it, though, as an MP, it's not an obligation, but there are oil prices on the world market. The formula is also known on the basis of daily reports on the trend in the world market oil price, on the basis of the US dollar course, it can be calculated how that price moves compared to the previous period, and can be given an appropriate forecast if you are engaged in the economy. It's not that hard. I don't brag about that. It's really one routine job, you just need to track the data. There are computers, you have the Internet, I believe radicals use the Internet, so you can always know what's going on. That was why, based on the formula the government brought in, I calculated that the fuel would be cheap. I didn't know exactly how much they'd be cheap, I said over three dinars, and eventually it turned out to be worth 3.5 dinars to over four dinars per liter of diesel fuel. And as for this warning you give all the time for local elections, and the others, I think you're doing it for nothing, because people won't listen to empty words anymore, they want to see who it is that can make a gym, pave the way, make a sewer, something that life means to them. As time passes, so people see that empty words don't actually solve anything. They solve things that are persistent, those who fear nothing and know how to get to the state money and then place it and help people live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29496	Thank you. People's MP, Zivorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29497	I want to take advantage of the opportunity any MP can talk about the amendment. In fact, this employment problem is in every municipality the biggest problem, but I want to say one good example that I have had the opportunity to see. Four days ago, I was in Hungary, in Sarvar, it's the richest municipality in Hungary. I was interested in industrial parks and employment opportunities; we still have duty-free zones and that's our privilege. In the last ten years, Hungary has received $36 billion through industrial parks, or an earlier duty-free zone. So it's invested in Hungary through these duty-free zones of $36 billion, and it employs 160,000 people. So, what I'm saying is that part of the budget is planned, it's our great chance that this problem that's greatest in municipalities, unemployment, through these duty-free zones we try... Here, today I read in the paper that a 360m-euro contract has been signed in Zrenjanin precisely in that duty-free zone, it's an American and Hungarian biobenzene production corporation. It should be part of the funds allocated to municipalities for duty-free zones, which are significant... But I believe that the Apache in this distribution won nothing, even though we have the largest duty-free zone of 160 acres, and I believe that many of the municipalities that are now thinking about buying out the land will not use that money. I'd like to consider it, because just yesterday, based on the municipal council's decision, I signed a letter with an American corporation that wants to invest 50 million euros and employ 2,000 people in ten years. Of course, we'd give it to them for 99 years and build a joint venture, where we'd be participants with 5%, which would certainly provide a permanent source of financing for the municipality in some futureperiode. So, duty-free zones are a great opportunity, because we see that this capital is moving from these European countries to ours. We will not enter the European Union, there are workers' salaries less, and the productivity of our workers is good, and that is one problem. The other problem I'm facing is that there are strangers who want to open the drives. We have a lot of empty halls, where they break purchase contracts and now the process, while the trade court delivers a verdict, lasts for years. The government should, once the contract is broken, return it immediately to its initial state and we should simply make those rings empty because of the court's delay, we can offer the foreigners. Recently, he was a foreigner making forged fences, he was the largest producer, and he offered, since there are people in Athens who have lost their jobs in the shipyard and metal professions, who can be overqualified very quickly; it is necessary to speed up, when it comes to breaking contracts, and to return it to the state, so that it can be available to these empty spaces. Third, I have a problem as the president of the municipality -- namely, we have opportunities for the financial police to close down the stores where the people, they say, draw. You know, it's small pensions, people don't work, they don't have salaries, they wait from first to first to get those little pensions, and then many stores give food, as the people say, on the line. If the financial police find out he took someone, they shut him down right away. The economic power of the pensioners is really low and many of them are trying to survive, as we would say, on the line and perhaps shouldn't, because there's only taking food, to be so rigorous.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29498	Thank you, Mr. Smiley. Apropo of this, just in order not to remain unclear, for the sake of fairness, access to state money by local self-government must have transparency and must be based on the principle of the project, not on the principle of who is closer to the state budget or who manages the state budget. Anyone else want a word? The emissaries are getting out of the O.R. ) Well, because it's used in this election campaign in local self-government. Access must be identical, regardless of whether you are in power or in opposition, if good projects are in local self-government, not because the president of the municipality or local government is in this one, but the one in Bor can't be damaged because he's not in power. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 44 amendments was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29499	We got the government's position, but I think it's too late, it came to Kosovo too late. There's no need to consider it now. Mr. Vitomir Milosevic has submitted an amendment to Article 7 and proposes to delete the 510 function within that section. Now let me explain what this applies to, it refers to the division of the Recycling Agency. I just need to draw attention to the fact that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 has 56 divisions. So many direct beneficiaries of the budget. I think it's more than it was in the budget for the previous year, and far more than it was in 2000. Compared to 2000, I think it's twice as much. We have a principled view that we do not support the concept of agencies, but I now ask your attention to read only what is written in the budget explanation why 44.5 million dinars were planned for the work of this agency. This should be an explanation of what this agency is doing, which she's in charge of. He says this: "The funds provided for in the department of the Recycling Agency include funds on specialised services related to the implementation of projects to assess the impact of business activities in the Republic of Serbia on the environment. "I'm absolutely sure you miswritten what the Agency's jurisdiction is. I'm starting from the presummation of accuracy, that all of this is true. When citizens hear that we have an agency that assesses the impact of business activities, then these people from Pancheva, Bor and other places would say, "Aman, people, you don't need it for that assessment, we survive this assessment every day, we're living examples, evidence of what's going on with ecology in our places, we don't need any agency, but make sure that these jobs are done, let those filters be made, let it be cleaned up so that the environment is better quality or, that I'm chugging accurate, correct for a normal life. Here's what these government people came up with. I have to say that this is one of the few agencies where the classification of 423 -- contracted services, given in the amount of 3.4 million dinars, so there's something abroad -- about four million -- that totals 7.5 million dinars. Services under contract, in 60% of cases, are just gigs for chosen people. There's supposed to be some kind of activity project by some agencies. The project envisions that a programme be developed during the year, to examine something, to establish, to transfer some knowledge, there are experts, whether some institutions or independent intellectuals of Belgrade University, such as those who wrote our regulations. Here's what it looks like with other agencies: let's say, foreign investment and export promotion agency, economic classification 423 - contracted services - 22.5 million dinars from the budget and another 15.5 million dinars. It's a total of 38 million dinars. Here's proof that it's quite enough to throw in some kind of code, if we accept that economic classification, put in two or three words, put some amount of funds in there, and everything becomes purposeful. Whether it's justified, if it's necessary, if it's so much to bring up, it doesn't matter at all. It's all covered. A large amount of money justifies everything. That's why we need a story about a surplus, which is why we need a story that we have more than we need. We can't even spend normal, so we have to spend abnormally. Since this is the last amendment... Of course, we didn't want the amendments to cover what you suggested, and it was about the allocation of funds for the referendum. If the constitution is passed, we know what the procedure is. Just to remind you, a new constitution is likely to be passed in a manner and procedure prescribed by the Constitution. We used to have extraordinary experts here, so we had a special law on the procedure and way of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so the two-thirds majority was reduced to a simple majority or absolute majority, I think it was an absolute majority - 126 votes. In 2004, the Constitutional Court put the law out of force, he estimated it to be unconstitutional. Let's just remind ourselves now of the virtual committee for human rights violations, for lustration, as they called it. She never met. They picked something, they didn't pick anything, but she never met. I know, you have a legal obligation to put it in the budget, because as a budget user there is. I'm just reminding you, since 1994, in February of the month, there's a bill here to put off the law. In addition to the promises of almost all parliamentary groups, several times we tried to put it on the agenda, not put on the agenda and formally-legal law exists, but there is no normal man who would apply it. (President: But in the procedure since 2004, you said 1994) I'm sorry, it was brought in at the end of 2002. It may be in the budget, although everyone knows it does not exist, but it cannot be in the budget item – funds to help families and indictees before The Hague tribunal. This minister scared Slobodan Vučetic, so he brought a solution and suspended and banned the law. A real debate was held before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law. The decision has not been made. Why? There's nothing unconstitutional about it. No, they won't fund the Hague indictees, he says he has some specific weight. It doesn't have any specific weight. (Zoran Nikolic, from the scene: go home. You're going home, I'm not going home yet, I'm not finished with this, the government needs to fall. So, there's something like a budget user, it exists in the budget, even though it's not in practice. What there is a law does not apply, since it is reportedly a solution that temporarily suspends the application of the law. If the law has been suspended, no legal obligations have been suspended. They have to come out eventually. Why there is no budget classification, why there is no economic position, etc. No, this is a budget of pure self-will, one seeing how and what to do. Here we are talking about inflation, what inflation was six months ago and what course it was, and what course it is today – well, you define it and mount it according to your interests. You sold everything and the money came, of course the course will rest and go down. Why don't you compare it to the price of gold, let's take that parameter, won't you? Why don't we take some other parameters? Why are you taking just about six economic criteria and indicators and exploiting it? I suggest we take all economic indicators and criteria, then we'll be clear. You just forgot one very important thing. I'm not arguing, you can hate the SRS, you can talk whatever you want, but don't change history. It's what they do in The Hague, and it's very unsuccessful. Because he saw through them intending to change history, Vojislav Seselj was forbidden to defend himself, they confused all the dates, of course consciously. The Serbian Radical Party was in power from 24 March 1998 to 25 October 2000. For everything you think is badly done in that period and that we're guilty, call us, but don't go far. A messenger came out a moment ago and said, "You sold your grandmother's property, and so on." It's impossible, because then he was in effect a law forbidding the sale of real estate to foreigners. There was no borrowing at the time, when no one wanted to communicate with this state, when they imposed sanctions. In the end, I have no intention of insulting anyone, but I would draw your attention to that so-called. The nonviolent change of authority of those who do not love you very much has a very good tactics – they choose for nonviolent destruction of the authorities of those who are smart and corrupt or naive and honest. I'll tell you what, when you're attacking the SRS, and I'd tell those on the side who listen to it, that the SRS is trying not to be either, but to be both smart and honest. That's why we're persistently expressing our views, so that the citizens can get out of the depression that's been here for six years, because you've been in power for six years. We were only in power for 30 months, while you were six years old. (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: I am sleepy, and you can speak freely, for your speech puts me to sleep. ) Come out, Mr. Nikolic, here, and turn to the citizens of Capca that your position is that the SRS will never be in power. Just go out or sleep here, or sleep down, no problem at all. I know you're very interesting. The reception, what to do to you, didn't burn anyone until dawn. Just so you know, in 2003, around this time, there were also many braves on this side, with Chad Jovanovic headed and others, but they are no longer in the Assembly. Make sure that at least a little pelzer stays with you in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29500	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. You called about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29501	No, but I was called here because it's a matter of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29502	I don't know why you called, 'cause I'm gonna take your word for it. He hasn't touched you in dignity, and if you want to talk about the amendment, talk about what you want and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29503	I agree, I'll say something short, and my dignity isn't really touched. The Serbian Radical Party, which intends to inherit the tradition of the People's Radical Party from the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, should know the following: in the early 20th century, the People's Radical Party had in the party a division of business, so Mr Stojan Protic argued for the party, Mr Laza Pacu worked for the party, and Mr Nikola Pasic kept quiet about the party. I've never seen a radical who's silent, and they'd be smarter off if you didn't. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29504	Mr. Krassic, you asked for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29505	You know, I don't mind a gentleman who kept quiet about his party, but I have a lot against him keeping quiet about the state, because he forgot that his party is the main pillar of power in the Republic of Serbia. His party should not have kept silent for these two and a half years, when Sreten Lukic was kidnapped, when constitutional frameworks for Kosovo were brought in, or should not have urged Serbs to go to the polls, and then not to invite them to vote in Kosovo, she should not have done many things. I don't know what your role is. Maybe my role should be to keep my mouth shut, but you're recognizable to this congregation, with another of your colleagues, because you're pretending to be kerbers counting whether the herd is numbered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29506	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. I don't think anyone has a word for this amendment anymore. The Government has submitted to Article 8 of the 77 amendments. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has found that the amendment is legally valid and possible and thus becomes an integral part of the law. On Article 11th, 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. Representative, Government and Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 11 of the 24 amendments. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has found that the amendment is legally valid and possible and on this basis I find it to be an integral part of the law. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on the agenda points of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 28 September 2006, starting at 20.45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I would also like to remind you that after the vote and the end of the session of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, we will continue with the Eighth Extraordinary Session, a debate on the agenda, which the president of the Assembly has scheduled after the end of this session. We expect that session to continue at 21.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29507	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again good evening. As we have said many times today, from the post of chairman and from the post of president, we will now approach the vote, and in the meantime, as you know, the beginning of a session that was scheduled for 12 hours, which has been moved and will start after this vote. Before we approach the vote, please determine if we have a quorum. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has confirmed that 127 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we can start voting. Since there was no quorum for the adoption of the minutes at the beginning of this session, we first move on to the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions of the National Assembly. You were presented with records of the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, based on Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 2006 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 5 June 2006. For 127, there were no three votes, of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the June 5th 2006 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. I am voting on the minutes of the 2006 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, held on 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27 and 29 June and 4, 5, 6 and 14 July 2006. For 127, it did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27 and 29 June and 4, 5, 6 and 14 July 2006. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the 2006 National Assembly session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 18 and 19 July 2006. For 126, it did not vote 5 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 18 and 19 July 2006. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the July 19th 2006 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 5th extraordinary session. For 127, it did not vote four out of 131 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 19 July 2006. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 12 September 2006. For 126, it did not vote 5, of the 131 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of its session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 12 September 2006. We are now going to vote on the agenda points of the current session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. For 128, there were no three votes, of the 131 MPs present. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the Committee on Finance has adopted the amendments to the Government in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Financial Regulation, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21 and 23, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments by the Government are legally possible, I find that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. Also, an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment of the Committee on Finance to Article 1 since it was adopted by the proposing representative at the session of the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 12 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 101, 8 of the 131 MPs present did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, it was not 13 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, 14 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, 15 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 112, 18 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, 15 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, 14 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 19 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 105, they did not vote 24 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, they did not vote 22, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 108, they did not vote 22 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Zivan Vladimirovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 112, 19 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, they did not vote 24, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 20 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 21 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 20 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, 19 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, they did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, he did not vote 21 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, 17 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 20 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 20 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 19 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 30th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, 15 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 19 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system in general. For 128, they did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, in principle. Three out of 132 MPs voted for 129. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that the Committee on Finance has adopted the amendments of the Government to Articles 1, 2, 7, 8 and 11, and the Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible, so I realize that the amendments of the Government have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 20 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 21 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 24, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, 17 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 7 of the amendment by Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 19 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Sreto Peric to article 7. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 108, 22 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Mitrovica submitted to article 7 of the 6th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, he did not vote 21 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragutin Peric submitted to Article 7 of the Sixth Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 19 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7, the 7th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 22 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. It was submitted to article 7 of the 8th Amendment by Dragan Zivkov. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 20 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th of the 8th Amendment, Vojislav Milajic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 110, 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Škrbić submitted the 8th Amendment to Article 7. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 18 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Miljko Četrovic submitted to Article 7 of the 8th Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, abstention one, no vote 18, of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 7 of the amendment by Milorad Belic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 98, there was no 18 vote, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 24, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th of the 8th Amendment, Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th edition of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Section of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the Prophet Radet. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, he did not vote 21 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7 of the 11th Amendment, Milorad Krstin submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 108, he did not vote 21 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted to Article 7 of the amendment by Zoran Mašić. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 25 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7, sections 11, 12, 15, 23 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Tanasijević. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 102, 25 of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted to article 7 by Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 76, it did not vote 13, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 7, the 13th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 25 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th, the 14th amendment was submitted by Bora Kutic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, abstention one, no vote of 28, of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th, the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7th, the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, he did not vote 31, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. In article 7, Section 20, the amendment was submitted by Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 23, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 7 of the 22nd amendment, Branislav Blazic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Zlatan Jovanovic to article 7 of Split 22. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 30 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 7, split 22, the amendment was submitted by Nikola Lalic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 24, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 7, split 23, the amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 26 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 7, 23, Zvonko Mihajlovic submitted the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Rodoljub Gačević to Section 23, paragraph 7. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 7, section 24, the amendment was submitted by Zoran Antic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 20 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 7, split 25, the amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 7, 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 20 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Milan Stevović to Section 29. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 18 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Dragan Todorovic to article 7. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 25 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On paragraph 7, the amendment was submitted by Stevica Dedjanski. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, it was not 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Dragan Cholic to article 7 of Split 41. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7, paragraph 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 11, the amendment was submitted by Milorad Belic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 103, the vote was not 16 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Before we approach the vote, I ask the MPs to stay in the O.R. because the Legislative Committee will meet for a minute because of a legal-technical order, we wait for them to return, and then we continue to work. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask that we determine the quorum first. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic system has shown that 128 MPs are present in the hall and that we can continue our work. First, I ask the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Aligrudic, to report to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29509	A representative of the government asked us to consider the situation created by a technical breakdown, a mistake in adding digits, and while submitting amendments. These amendments have become an integral part of the text of the bill, as they have been adopted by the resolution board, and the Legislative Committee has said they are legally possible. In particular, Amendment III, below 2, relating to the correction of the technical error in Chapter 6, point 11 – "The Office of the Coordination Centre of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija, Function 110 Executive and Legislative Authorities, Financial and Fiscal Affairs and Foreign Affairs"; Chapter 6, point 11, in column 8 - "total funds", technical error means "the amount: 2,954,331,000", instead of the amount: 3,705,558.000. Namely, when the amendment was made, when collecting the amount to be entered here, a mistake was stolen. If it were a technical error, it could be easily determined by reading the original text of the bill that we have already stated in principle. When comparing the text of the draft law and this amount entered in the amendments, it is easy to see that it is a technical error. Therefore, the Legislative Committee proposes that we declare this correction, to adopt it, i.e. to accept it as a legal-technical editorial. I think it's the most comprehensive, and then let's get to the point of the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29510	I would like to ask you to vote on the proposal made by the Legislative Committee, the legal and technical order, which the chairman of the committee, Mr Aligrudic, informed us about. I ask the National Assembly to state whether it adopts this legal technical order. For 128, it did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this legal and technical order. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 as a whole. One of the 132 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, we are moving to a decision on the proposals made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to agree on the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2006. For 127, a abstentioned one was not voted by four, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2006. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2006. For 128, they did not vote four out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for farmers for 2006. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2006. For 127, it did not vote 5, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2006 I am putting forward the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2006. For 125, a abstentioned one, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2006. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2006 Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the National Employment Service. For 127, it did not vote 5, of 132 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2006 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. The session is closed at 22.50 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29511	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 8th EXCELLENT SESSION OF 28th September 2006 (The session began at 22.50pm. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to first determine the quorum for the beginning of the session. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 111 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider acts in the agenda as soon as possible, which were proposed by 120 MPs in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which was convened at the request of 120 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. Before we move to the agenda set out in the proposal, I ask Vice President Angelkovic to replace me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29513	As you could see, for the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic, 2. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and deputy member of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic, 3. The selection of two members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, who are elected from the ranks of MPs on a proposal from the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 4. The request of the President of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 84. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Law and amendments to the Law on Broadcasting. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS AND FUNDS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have received a proposal for a decision made by the National MP Predrag Marković. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the motion for a decision: together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Milos Aligrudić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vojislav Milajić, Bozidar Koprivica, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Milan Stevović, Miljko Čevrović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Milorad Mirčić and Milovanovic. You have received reports from the Administrative and Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the promoter, MP Predrag Markovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29514	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under the obligation to respect and implement decisions made by the National Assembly, it was necessary that, in the context of several decisions made by the National Assembly, changes and amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly could be made in general. And secondly, in order for the National Assembly, as the most legislative and only constitutional body, to set an example for all who may be late or have failed to meet the technical conditions to comply with the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about three decisions. The first decision of the National Assembly since 5 June 2006, which obliged all levels of government to take measures out of their jurisdiction, so that the Republic of Serbia could assume with full capacity the powers of those institutions that existed at the level of the state community, which in part or in general ceased to function. Secondly, in relation to this, as you know, this congregation adopted a Decision on the Systematization of Jobs, and it was necessary to make a whole series of amendments in relation to that decision. The third is the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure, which this Assembly has made, and in the Rules of Procedure that we are working on, and as it happens, it has repeatedly pointed to some technical shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure itself, there have been several errors which have now been removed, which Mrs Radeta pointed out, and I have promised that they will certainly be corrected, I did not expect it to be this way. It is equally important, because the National Assembly is not just a legislative body, it must also be a control body, because it produces a whole series of organs, not just a government, a whole series of executive authorities. That is why, not only through the work of the committee, the Rules of Procedure under which we work had a special member on regular sessions, which, at the request of the MPs, would be scheduled in a special way, where, in front of the public, MPs, according to the established procedure, they would answer questions from different resolutions, those which the National Assembly decides to call, above all that is meant by the members of the Government. It has been pointed out several times, and above all on the Administrative Committee, that it is necessary for full activity, for full performance, to predict the full capacity of that member in a detailed way, as it is done in other countries, with long-term democracy, modern parliamentism, in that sense I mean technically, and therefore, I will give you an example, although you have 18 countries that have already introduced this control over the previous years, a small proposal has been made, it has included examples of these countries and considered that my obligation, as president of the Assembly, is to give this proposal to the Administrative Board. The Management Board has decided, I have a lot of understanding, that it would be better, instead of the president taking the obligation to define this member, that the working group prepare the text. The working group composed of MPs prepared the text and delivered it to the Administrative Committee in January 2006, when the Administrative Committee concluded that it may nevertheless need to amend the Rules of Procedure all what has been agreed and prepared to be defined, because it is very important, especially for citizens, especially for MPs, for the public, for the function of control and it should not be part of improvisation, and it is certainly not possible to organise it so regularly in the context of the ongoing procedure. I want to thank the Administrative Committee and the members of the working group, some of them are still members of this Parliament and members of the Administrative Committee, one of whom is currently running this session, Mr Angelkovic, some are no longer MPs, but I thank you, because when making a proposal on how to conduct a session that would be controlled and answered by the Government, they have adopted solutions that were in principle among those solutions that, based on the consultations, I have proposed. And of course I've returned now, so in this proposal, I've actually written down a proposal that they adopted. Why am I telling you all this? Because there is a need for benevolence, solidarity, and mutual understanding in these situations. What are those changes? The definition of this session, where control would take place, is the first kind of interaction. The second is the organisation and technical organisation, based on the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is now working, as a consequence of the decision made by the assembly and the government's conclusion on the basis of the decision, in two buildings. There are three technical halls available for different capacity sessions and different technical conditions. I don't have to tell you to what extent it is sometimes, from the point of view of air, sitting, communication with each other, hard to work in this room, but there's a bigger problem, which you may not know about, which is that when you, as long as you do today, are discussing in detail a topic, defending the interests of your parties and leading the interests of the citizens, this is like an old refrigerator, this technique, it warms up, to the extent that it can sometimes be broken, thus jeopardising the importance of the issues that we decide on. The system was set long ago, the system was set up, as in difficult times, we all lived in them, worked, so today for repair in case of failure, thanks to the technical service, which goes by the markets, finds parts, tries, trains in different ways, just to function this system, it cannot be easily and quickly replaced, as well as the ventilation system. These are technical conditions. Since we have the opportunity to hold sessions in three places, in three halls, now different changes of different members are allowed to be made, but not to be misused by the one who scheduled the session, at least 24 hours earlier, and the place where the debate on a particular point will be held. So that's the first one. Secondly, it also enables the organisation of quality work by Members of Parliament, because what citizens do not know, everything you discuss on committees, amendments, is delivered during the session immediately. This legal obligation, which is immediately, means that it is immediately multiplied because there is a printing press here, that it is immediately brought to couriers and you have it at your disposal. If someone were to unaccountably schedule a session in the House of the National Assembly, the Square of Nikola Pasic, could be misused and the whole series of amendments were not immediately received, because we do not have technical conditions, there was no printing there, there was no printing there, just so you know, it was printed in the Federation Palace building, there is one small manual. These are tons of paper that should be carried by carts across the park, extremely irresponsible, this is an important institution, we must not play, and therefore carefully, technically everywhere determined how one point 24 hours earlier can be considered and in which room. It's the same for committees. Where it will be the same earlier, it can't go to a shortcut, so MPs can prepare themselves, not to run between two buildings, because that would be extremely unserious. It was simply a matter of taking care of all of this in the context of ongoing activity. But there's a whole series of jurisdiction, and I'm going to give you the example that you've given me, which we're now taking over. You know that the Republic of Serbia, you did it, ratified international agreements concluded by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You remember that it was done by going to the adoption of the Law of ratification and often there were objections, quite justified, by the rules always by those MPs whose ministers did not propose it, whether it was a position or opposition. They were talking, and why can't we see the contract? The National Assembly of Serbia ratified a whole series of million-value contracts without seeing a single contract because international subjectivity was not in Serbia. In order for the Assembly to see the contracts before ratification, to consider the contracts, it had to expand the committee's jurisdiction, because it had to be written. It also had to be possible to consider everything necessary in the Assembly, as regards the affairs of the executive authority. When it comes to defence and security, there is now a whole series of obligations that the Defence and Security Committee must carry out further. When it comes to foreign policy, there are a whole series of jobs that the Committee on Foreign Affairs must do. Among other things, Serbia, as you know, now appoints, in the way envisaged by law, ambassadors. To whom they address and represent the politics they will represent abroad - the one who is in charge of determining that policy, which is the National Assembly. It must then be predicted to be on the board. I'll ask you the same thing. We are ready and responsible, since 1989 we have been discussing the Constitution and, if I understand correctly, there is now a political will for all of you to give up a little bit of great difference and to do something unique. One reason is also the assembly's decision to find a formulation in the constitution, both in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. I ask you, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence and Security cannot discuss it because no procedure has been envisaged under the Rules of Procedure. So I don't know what we're going to need more in the coming months, whether people, there are MPs we're going to send, some on Sunday, and the public doesn't think wrong, these are MPs from all parties, from the Permanent Delegation, and deputies, and those who will participate based on the activities of the National Assembly and co-operation with different organisations. They'll all start here as soon as they do the most important work, of course they spread the data and the facts, so God help us if they succeed, but their job is to go and talk about the politics of this assembly and this state, and its arguments. There's no one to empower them if the board doesn't. The board can't do that unless we change it now. Of course, there are difficult times, many don't get to do some work, many things stop, but the National Assembly can't wait to make arrangements. It must work, independently of all current and future ministry laws, so I have rejected amendments that say "the committees should be the same as the ministries"; no, the committees must cover all those areas that the state of Serbia covers on the inside and on which the Serbian Parliament decides. And of course, on the subject, the competent ministries will have to turn to these committees. I hope there will be more and more competent committees than ministries in the current and future government of Serbia, as there are many more jobs from different segments. A whole series of solutions helps these committees work, expands the activity of some other committees, who may not have noticed it yet. The Finance Committee; there is an area of standardisation of precious metals, which was not in Serbia's jurisdiction, so it was not listed. The Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, when it comes to ratifications, has a whole series of these technical solutions inside. Presentation of the Assembly; as a rule, it is now possible for the Assembly not to be blocked for a moment by the possibility of representing the state of Serbia. And where there is a danger of not agreeing on MPs on the board of directors, there is a solution there – one such solution I signed today for you, Mr Dacic – in case of prevention, the President of the Assembly can make it possible not to get to a standstill. When you remove the possibilities of congestion, you also remove the desire to, instead of helping efficiency and to engage in that efficiency, to have the desire to find a way to prevent it, keep it. The state and citizens have to function every day. It's those changes. All these changes are also going towards a second option, which is that, due to the future role and the current situation of the Republic of Serbia, special sessions are being held – these are sessions of solemn and protocol character. They are certainly not guided in general by the Rules of Procedure, because these are sessions to allow heads of state, government, international organisations to turn to the National Assembly. I have to explain why I refused an amendment that says "those international organisations that are members of Serbia". I'll set an example. Imagine an international organisation of those countries, and there have been cases in the past, which correspond to the MPs of the party proposed by the amendment. Imagine whether a government or a minister should decide that. I've been listening here for months that you're against it in principle, and so am I. Therefore, it must not avoid the possibility of calling on the president of those countries, the international organisation, to address the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly will decide later on whether to become a member of it. So you should never deprive yourself of what can bring good to your country. At first, I wanted to accept that amendment, because it sounds quite logical to me that only those international organisations and high representatives of which you are members address you. But, Serbia, and I'm sure every one of you wants it -- wants to be able to be desirable in that organisation where he's not a member now, and to receive and visit, and to be at the highest and solemn level. Also, at these sessions, where both the place and the way of work are organised, and it is predicted that they will, because those protocolal ones have been extended, are sworn in by a whole series of authorities, the President of the Republic, the Government, members of the government. This is where the draft constitutions are adopted, the proposals for a change of constitution. Different acts are solemnly declared. So a whole series of occasions, where it's very important just how something sounds like a theme, but what it looks like. The possibility of having such sessions is now created here, but it is more important that the interference that existed is removed, and in the future there will be even more, because Serbia may choose a whole series of bodies for which their representatives, before taking office, will take an oath. Without that, they can't start, and they're waiting for a regular session to end. The regular session is once so important to the citizens, to the MPs, that it will take another 20 days. You're not gonna break up for one swearing oath. On the other hand, you're not going to stop something that you've chosen to protect, so tomorrow it might be the Frankfurt, the Supreme Auditor, you should pick it out and take the oath, and you're stalling, or worse, someone's manipulating it by not finishing a regular session. No problem, it's done at a special session, it's solemn and protocolable, and it's not possible to prevent it. So, I tried consistently to respect everything that came out technically, based on existing conditions, from decisions made by this National Assembly. There were many other good ideas, for me, which were proposed by the people who prepared this text. These are the people who worked in the professional services of the National Assembly and the people who work in professional services here today, and the people who have worked here before in the National Assembly. They passed on experiences to each other, comparing, not to accidentally miss some jurisdiction, and they had many other good solutions, I say, convincing, but I didn't think it was given right now, at the end of an extraordinary session, to me to suggest that, too. Because I think about all these solutions, and some of them, by the way, Mr. Baralic, Mr. Aligrudić, Mrs. Radeta, Mr. Todorovic, on several occasions and several times before, are issues of a possible solution for individual committees, or for individual services or for individual bodies. On that point, I thought it was a matter, and now I think the same thing that political parties in parliament have to negotiate. In contrast, they're going to ask for these changes, but in this case, I say, since it's the end of an extraordinary session, I didn't suggest, because it would create a legal void. So, the committees, the bodies would be blocked, as long as they didn't propose to make any new changes. In this way, the full capacity of the congregation is realized according to your decisions, and there is no delay. It even allows a whole series of problems, which the state has at some other levels, to be resolved through the committees of the National Assembly and their importance to rise. That is why I have not accepted those amendments that say it reduces the importance of the Assembly, as it gives too much importance to the committees. It won't be. The importance of the Assembly is so much greater, and all of you who have traveled, received and compared the work of other parliaments, you know, are strong parliaments whose committees are strong. Of course, committees can, and it's further defined here, to hire, form commissions, expert groups for specific tasks. No one thinks that we are MPs, each of us individually, the smartest, but we have to consult from a particular area of expertise, see if it agrees or disagrees with our political understanding and what we promised, and compared to making decisions. Finally, we had a few technical limitations. The first question was, now it was defined that all meetings, all meetings of the Legislative and Administrative Committee, were recorded and that stenographic notes were kept. Why? Because by the consequences, I don't have to explain it to you, possible media manipulations or inter-party manipulations, or whatever, what these committees say has far-reaching consequences, and it's good that there are documentation everywhere, as there are stenographic notes from plenary sessions. The question was why not for all the other committees, and the solution proposed - the request is done for other committees, for a very simple reason, for respecting the role of the National Assembly and now and for the future, but the National Assembly is poor. We don't have enough technical options, and we don't have enough people to keep stenographic notes. And I believe that the National Assembly, you who have passed the most laws in history, and the answer to what I have heard these days, the most complete and most systematic laws, and the least changes to the laws that this assembly has passed, have brought much more changes to its own laws, all of you, whatever you say, will be ready and in future will be in other councils, that the National Assembly is doing even more, even more intensively. Not only does this good, top-of-the-line organization need, but that means the committees will be sitting down, by 10 committees at a time. You can't, if you're a serious man, you can't suggest that on all boards you keep stenographic notes, and you know you don't have that many stenographers. That would be extremely unserious. It's the first restriction we've ever taken care of. There are still some technical limitations we had to take care of. For the people's congregation, if it is serious, and I have heard these days, every one who exercises authority, if he is serious, should not promise, prescribe, and be bound by what he is confidently aware of that he cannot carry out. This is where it has been taken care of, and I must say once again that it is my great pleasure that people who have sat for days have consulted experiences, some and now are sitting here working and one Parliament and another Parliament, headed by the secretary of the Administrative Committee and the secretary of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Radakovic, that they have helped both in one and other business so much that it is the turn that finally also from this pay phone, as it was today at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, they get satisfaction. So, citizens, and many of us, unfortunately, often think that what we're talking about at the pay phone and that we're following and we're taking part in it, that it's our work and we're doing it ourselves. Neither. A lot of people, and not enough according to European standards. As many MPs as there are, there are so many employees in professional services, and there should be three times as many. That's what European standards say. But these people work triple, they help all of you. In doing so, all of you are doing much more, consulting, each according to your own interests and within what is agreed in the parliamentary group, and you must always pay tribute to those who do not see each other and who carry a huge part of the work. By amending the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the decisions of the National Assembly that I have proposed, and in this context I have adopted three amendments that are really technical, and they remove some shortcomings, we are all in a position to be an example of how carefully, with professional help, it is possible to implement the decisions that the National Assembly makes. Therefore, I ask you that these technical decisions, which will allow the National Assembly to be filled with lungs, with the full capacity of what it has – neither Serbia has much, nor the citizens have much in their houses, so they manage, so when they have an auxiliary and old building, then they organize what they will do, how they will do not argue, what they will do when it is winter, they do not predict that in summer and winter everything will work in one house or another – compared to that we are organised, the National Assembly is organised, and I thank you in advance for your support, and I am honored that I have been able to make decisions that this National Assembly has made, with the help of experts and with unanimous support of all Members on the Administrative Committee, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29515	I thank the President of the National Assembly, Predrag Markovic, for a comprehensive and comprehensive explanation for the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hope this argument will help to make the debate efficient and brief and what was not clear to clarify. Do authorised representatives and committees report to the floor? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29516	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Markovic's presentation was exhaustive and I believe that his intention when proposing this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was good. I must note that there is something else behind this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, namely the fact that by adopting this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly once again, and this is not the first time, becomes an instrument in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that regard, our amendments that we have made to the proposal for this decision are also our amendments. Mr Markovic, when he spoke earlier about the reasons why he proposed this decision, said among other things that the June 5th Assembly had taken over certain obligations and that it had committed some other state bodies and, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do part of its work to make the state function as a legal state. Unfortunately, the government didn't do what it had to do. I remind Mr Markovic and my fellow Members that, in accordance with Rule 218 of the current Rules of Procedure, the Government is reporting to the National Assembly on its work, and in particular on policy-making, enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, the implementation of the development plan and the spatial plan and the implementation of the budget. The second view says that the government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year. We in the SRS believe that a long-standing condition for the application of Article 218 has been met and that the National Assembly should have requested a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to see why the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not do its part of the job that it had an obligation to do after the secession of Montenegro and the referendum in Montenegro. Also, what you said, Mr. Markovic, that it's just some technical stuff, I can't agree with your argument, and I'll say it individually when I talk about almost every member of this proposal. This explanation of how we need to know that we have another building available now, so here we have a photocopier, we don't have a photocopier, so we're running, so the officers are running, etc., you almost, I guess, made people look at us. I don't want to talk about the conditions under which the National Assembly works. I must say that we are representatives of the people, that our parties have delegated us to the parliamentary lists and that we are doing this according to our conviction and the will of the citizens of Serbia. I don't think it's appropriate for us to complain now in front of our citizens that something is particularly difficult for us here. You also said, Mr Markovic, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will soon be debated and that something particularly needs an amended Rules of Procedure now. I can't accept that. Of course, when you or any act adopted in the Assembly depend on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija and if the adoption of any act in this assembly guarantees Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia, believe that Serbian radicals would vote first for such an act. You also mentioned the fact that a delegation of the National Assembly to Strasbourg already travels on Sunday, no matter where, which is why I'm saying this, and you said that such trips are also the reason for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you, and you know it well, delegations of the Assembly have traveled before, according to the Rules of Procedure which is now in force, and that it was no distraction. You were talking about some old technique, I guess this one for voting, etc., and the possibility that this technique could be broken any minute, and that was also the reason for you to make the motion for this decision. I'm asking you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, which risked us working till half past six tonight and who knows how much more, and we started at 10.00. The amended Rules of Procedure certainly won't change anything. I would say that this Rules of Procedure, which is the current Rules of Procedure, is the Rules of Procedure on which the SRS parliamentary group had many objections at the time of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. We believe and believe that it is a restrictive Rules of Procedure, that MPs cannot fully carry out their work, above all that they are limited and time-consuming for exposure, and that parliamentary groups are also limited in time. And for making it possible for these Rules of Procedure that today, tonight and at every moment of maltene, not a single dozen MPs in the O.R. Now that we count ourselves, the ruling coalition of only seven MPs sits in the hall. The appointment and these sessions were not in line with the Rules of Procedure. You said that, though, when you opened this session. It's a bit incorrect, especially from our colleagues from the ruling coalition, who manage to somehow still gather when it's due to vote, so we wait an hour or an hour and a half for MPs of the ruling coalition to come together, and then some proposal is voted upon, and then applause breaks, as if there's now some totally total majority, and you can function easily. Then you should make a good suggestion, although after working time we have scheduled a Rules of Procedure, and you have not changed that in this decision, after working time, we have started this new session, only because while there are fellow Members who make up the parliamentary majority to vote on the agenda. It was immediately “where my dear ones are, ” and you asked yourself to wait a few minutes until the colleagues came out, because they couldn’t last more than an hour in this room. You may have thought of them when you spoke of difficult conditions. For us, Serbian radicals, all the conditions, whatever they are, if we are here to work in the interests of Serbia's citizens and in propagating the SRS programme, can't be difficult. I said this because I actually want to tell you – given the way the sessions are scheduled and how we don't work in some days when the majority of the congregation can't be gathered, and how when it's kind of being gathered we work longer than working hours, we work in days that are not scheduled for work – now I don't complain, but I want to say that if we do so, then we don't need this Rules of Procedure that we have, let alone something else to change it, and we're essentially not going to change anything. What's the big deal? What is important is what I said at the beginning and I warn my fellow Members and, of course, the public that you, Mr Markovic, have actually tried to replace in some part the law on the ministries that the Government of the Republic of Serbia owes us, because the government of the Republic of Serbia knows or assumes, or has not made a deal about the vote of ministers, I mean the citizens of Zoran Stankovic and Vuk Draskovic, who are playing and falsely representing themselves as ministers. We of the SRS have filed criminal charges for false representation. Because some citizen, even if he was, can't go abroad, to some official visit or off the record and present himself as a minister, of course, can't do it in Serbia either. And that is the problem of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and since you are a correct man, Mr. Markovic, so you wanted to make your friends in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so tonight you have to listen to our criticisms addressed to your account, because it would be better to stick to the Rules of Procedure than to do to anyone. Let the government gentlemen do their job, let them provide a congregation majority for their X-Filen ministers, and until then we do this the way we do it. In addition to these essential remarks, I must say, even you said in your presentation, I suppose we were thinking of the same or similar things, that this proposal for a decision had a pretty bad technical preparation in one part, and it is particularly bad that this proposal on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure is not in line with the existing Rules of Procedure. Here's how. By having received the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements, I am now saying, Article 10 says - Article 80 is amended and it is read, etc., and it is common to the Rules of Procedure that, as part of this text, we have had the current Rules of Procedure, with amendments, bold or large letters written, as usual, in order to be able to manage more easily, especially given the very short time we have had from this proposal to tonight's debate, which should be today at 12 o'clock. But you misjudged, I don't know how that happened to you when you knew that we, Serbian radicals, are still not 12, we have a large number of amendments to the budget rebalancing law... (President: Mr. Krassic, I am counting on your energy. )......................................................................................................... Mr. Angelkovic, with Mr. Krasic a little later, let me speak now. (President: I only warned Mr Krasic, so he wouldn't disturb you. ) Thank you, don't disturb me, my colleague Krasic, he constructively throws me some remarks. I don't know if the time will allow me to look back on each of our remarks, but certainly my colleagues, who will speak after me, will say what I leave out. We have proposed that Article 2 of your proposal be deleted because you here have provided that committees should have one or more subcommittees, and the current Rules of Procedure already contain a provision that committees can have subcommittees. So one or more, or subcommittees as a noun in the plural is exactly the same, and in one case or another, they can have 17 subcommittees. You also predicted that the board had a secretary and that was why we proposed to delete this amendment. Of course, the board has a secretary, but it is not a provision to be set out in the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary of State is an employee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly has a secretary, so the Rules on the Systematization of Jobs are adopted, and the number of committee secretaries is also determined under that Regulation, and decisions are made on the appointment, or setting out the Secretary of the Board under that Regulation. We Serbian radicals taught what we had in the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, where you were able to vote that on July 1st of next year, not you personally, Mr Markovic, but you were one of those who voted, the competition, so that for five years the State Secretarys were appointed, these are the deputy ministers, otherwise recently, that those who were now the government, when they were no longer the government, would have their deputy minister in each ministry. And you have now gone so far that every committee here should have such a man, and one whom you through this Rules of Procedure, who is appointed secretary, then he will certainly have the opportunity to advance in service, and we think he cannot and should not be reserved for only one man. Otherwise, we have no objections to the work of employees in the Assembly, these are very correct, valuable, professional people, and that is why we think that the secretary, who knows so much better individually how many of them and what he can do, that this job is well done through the systemization rule without us doing such things here. We have proposed eradicating Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, because they are all the same reasons, and the reasons are precisely because these articles extend through your proposal the responsibilities of the Committee on Security, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and, of course, the standardisation of measures and precious metals. So this is exactly what I said at the beginning, this had to exist in the ministry law, and the work of the committee, the work of the National Assembly, and the Rules of Procedure himself must draw from that law on ministries. I know the National Assembly brings the Rules of Procedure under the Constitution, that's fine, but the committee's competences are consistent with what the Ministry Act provides, and you in this Rules of Procedure suggest something that doesn't exist in the Ministry Act. We have further suggested that Article 8 be deleted for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that you tried to convince us here, that one part, somewhere, and part of the session, I don't know if it's in this article anymore, is I'm talking a little faster because at the end of the time that I can use, but you're saying that part of the session can be held elsewhere, or that it's another place, I guess, this building over there. We deleted it because it knows where the seat of the National Assembly is. The seat of the National Assembly is in this building. The government can go from place to place and hold meetings, and the National Assembly can't, but it has to be here. In this Article 8, the reason why we have provided for its erasure is that the committee may hold a session without setting out the agenda, if it is discussed in order to inform the Committee of issues from its work. So, whatever it is that we, our SRS parliamentary group thinks and is confident that the agenda has to be established, and the board cannot meet to chat, because it can be done by committee members and by private house, by cafes, etc. The board still needs to be formal and has to have a agenda. We have also proposed that Article 9 be deleted, where you have provided that, in order to consider certain issues from your section and prepare the proposal, etc., working groups, whose composition can be determined by scientific and professional workers, can be educated. You have tried to explain this, but we do not believe it, because all that is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, certainly that the National Assembly is the composition of both Serbian citizens, and all the professions and interests in this Parliament, there may now be a problem of some small parliamentary groups that cannot meet all these conditions, but we think that this should certainly remain exclusively in the jurisdiction of the MPs. I see I've overstepped my time and I'll end up with Article 10, I'll ask a colleague who speaks after me to proceed from Article 11. I'll just say what I couldn't possibly understand what you were doing, Mr. President, when you wrote that at the meetings of the Administrative and Legislative Committee there were stenographic notes, or there was a tone recording, and at the session of the second committee, if the committee so requests. I think it's inadmissible for us through the Rules of Procedure to give less or more meaning to a committee. I really don't see why the Privatisation Committee wouldn't have to record every session, then the Justice Committee. Now I'm really sorry, I'm not going to list all the committees, but we just don't understand why you chose exactly the Administrative and Legislative Committee, every committee has its own meaning, it has a role and we can't treat them differently with our Rules of Procedure. Here, I'm finishing up, Mr. Angelkovic, Mr. Stevovic, continue you from the next member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29517	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Otherwise, when we look at the current Rules of Procedure, it doesn't say that this is the seat of the National Assembly, so I treat that the seat of the National Assembly is that across the street, and the second place is here. I hope that's what the President of the Assembly meant, that when he says and when he writes here that within 24 hours, the MPs think the Assembly will be held there, not here. The Rules of Procedure do not say where the seat of the National Assembly is. Do representatives of other parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Here you go, Mr. Perry. I didn't hear you pick up your word on the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, breaking the Rules of Procedure or discussing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29518	I think we're talking about the Rules of Procedure tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29519	Wait a minute, Mr. Perry. Have you reported to the Rules of Procedure that he has been violated or that you have called to discuss the amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29520	I called to talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29521	Mr. Peric, have you called to discuss the item on the agenda of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure or have you answered the word that the Rules of Procedure have been broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29522	Mr. Angelkovic, since the head of the Parliament Club isn't here, we couldn't fill out the application, I want to talk to you about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29523	I'm sorry, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, you've called to discuss the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29524	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovic, since you are the promoter of this Rules of Procedure, I trust you had good intentions. You wanted to improve the work of the Assembly, that the Assembly was working on some new rules, to create better conditions. From your exposure video that you worry about everything, and about the officers, and about the MPs, etc. But given that you, as President of the Assembly, have already proposed to us one Rules of Procedure, I must say that I am afraid that there will be nothing in this Rules of Procedure that will bother us tomorrow. The Rules of Procedure that you have proposed, and this is about the Assembly, did not show well in practice. When we adopted him, and when we talked at the Parliament clubs, it was a promise, leave us in the Rules of Procedure that the president will be able to extend the Assembly occasionally when he needs it, and then you, after we adopt it, will then extend it every day. Not just when it's right and it's going to be a few times a year when there's a need for it. If something had not been misused from this Rules of Procedure, I don't think we should be bringing this Rules of Procedure right now. There's a lot of reasons why we don't have to bring this Rules of Procedure. Because there's got to be some order in the House, which we're making laws, so we can get to the Rules of Procedure. We have no law on the Assembly and on the People's MPs, and we bring the Rules of Procedure, we make some laws. I wonder if the legal laws are what we bring in when we don't have the law we're working under. I think that's basic. First, we're passing some reform laws. Everyone in Europe has a law on the congregation, even those who declare themselves on our ground to be a state, and even they have a law on their congregation, only we have no law on the congregation. I don't understand, and I believe that this Rules of Procedure should either be withdrawn or we should not vote for it until the law on the Assembly is passed. This law should have been on the agenda twice already, so for some reason it's retreating. He gets into the procedure, the MPs split up, he's not on the agenda, someone remembered and pulled him back. If you can't pass laws or be afraid of someone, then let's see that we're passing some laws that won't offend anyone, where no one will be angry, where the press won't write. Next, we're talking about subcommittees here. I believe that if we put in practice subcommittees will be neglected committees. Here's a simple reason we've experienced it in practice, if the subcommittees are doing as this constitutional subcommittee did, then we don't need to organize them on all committees. If we need something to pass, then maybe put it on an individual committee, or a smaller door to enter, but if we put in practice, then the boards won't have anything to do because the subcommittees will work. That's how Loncar and this DS professor have been working out for a year what the tours are going to do in the Constitution, what they're going to throw out, etc. As far as the federal parliament is concerned, if this Rules of Procedure is as the organization is now made, to improve the conditions, since you said there is also a main building, and an auxiliary building, so the host determines what it will do in the main building, what it will do in the auxiliary building, I don't think what's going on right now is good. It's not good for a reason, it might not happen to you, so I hope some of you may have deliberately planted this Rules of Procedure on you to propose, you've respected it. Because the president's office isn't allowed to complain or complain, but they're talking in the halls as follows: that this schedule now uses that building and that the officials were transferred from this building to that building, so that there's so much room available that here, in this building, you bring your people in and bring whoever it has. It's so in practice. It's written on paper and in the Rules of Procedure, and it looks good when it's written, and when it starts to be implemented, then we just see what's wrong. Finally, I would like to say that personally, as an MP, I will not vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure, until there is a law on the Assembly and the MPs on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29525	I would like to thank MP Hranislav Peric for his contribution to the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. The next speaker is MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29526	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I would like to refer to the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, from the point of view of this proposal. I've read a few times just an explanation of these provisions and, frankly, I didn't really understand everything. Mr. President, I have the impression that you haven't written an explanation, because you've given a much better and more decadent explanation here in oral presentation, with the fact that in certain parts of the SRS we disagreed with the provisions, but the explanation was much more decadent and detailed, so I would pray in the future that what you've exhibited in this way tonight, so you enter both in writing and in writing. We've really been given one or two sentences of members that are very important. When we add to that some short term and add one fatigue we have all day long, the question arises how much time we are to adequately discuss this proposal for a decision. What is important, I believe, is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is, in fact, one procedural document on the basis of which the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia's procedure, so alpha and omega of all that is happening in the building of parliament. I think what we're proposing is even more complicated by the complicated text of the Rules of Procedure anyway. Perhaps it is for some future thinking that we should really clean up, to throw out what is in the Rules of Procedure too high, to divide by some processes, because there is something that happens before the closing of these doors here, something that happens behind it, so that if we were to view the Rules of Procedure as certain continents, there would be a lot more precise, clearer and louder people involved in what the Assembly is doing, what the powers of the Assembly, what committees do, what congregation services do, so that we have a procedurally very complicated act that, at this point, we can say, there are extremely many members. I'm not saying this should be reduced, but if it were to be distributed to certain segments, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly would be much more precise and clear. In that sense, I would continue where my esteemed colleague, Verica Radeta, stood, by referring to Article 11, which she said something about, which is the day, the hour and place where the Assembly was held. I don't think there's anything in the Rules of Procedure that's decidently regulated. Here, we have an esteemed president, we have an esteemed vice president, and they have a different opinion on where the assembly session is held. We do not mind writing that and public opinion and that all citizens of our country know which building is being held, i.e. to clearly define which other place the Serbian Parliament can be held. I think it's a technical question where we can very easily find a common compromise and a common solution. What I would particularly point out, which is one of my remarks to Article 10, where it is said that a certain record is being drawn up on the work of the board. It's okay, no committee's ever sat down without making a record, and we got that record in writing, even verified it at the first next session. It's an established procedure, and it doesn't need to be run away from. However, I could not agree with the Assembly president's conclusion that we only conduct a stenogram at the meeting of the Administrative Committee and the meeting of the Legislative Committee. I cannot accept this precisely because I know which committees in this assembly are there, I know what these discussions are going on, I know that these are serious controversy, serious arguments brought by the MPs, and there are also this possibility, there are sparks, there is a possibility that certain spoken words are being misused. And on other very important committees, not only on the Administrative and Legislative Committee, there are representatives of the media, and even citizens who are always welcome here. I am not logically reasoned by the President, that the Administrative and Legislative Committees can lead the stenograms and that the Assembly services for this are qualified, and on the other hand it is proposed and discussed the very important committees that should be given the green light to enter this assembly, which is the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. I'd like to start with one of the very characteristic facts, and that's what the Defence and Security Committee is supposed to do. It is said this: "is considering the draft law, other regulations or general act, relating to Serbia's Army, the defence of the Republic of Serbia, integrated border management, production, transport and transport of weapons, discussing the defence strategy, issues related to... "and so on. If you are already in favour of this committee, and the SRS has pointed out its position not to need this committee without regulation through the Ministry Act and without a competent ministry, then the question is what in Serbia's state we can discuss more significantly than what is stated here. So, there's a need for someone to abuse someone who said something about a defence strategy, something he said about arms trafficking, arms trafficking, security of the state border, etc. These are all important questions where stenographic notes should really be kept and all of this recorded. On the other hand, I have to say one thing, and that is: assuming that we come to the Committee on Defence and Security and that this committee is formed, who will represent us the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Who we're going to ask here and who's going to give MPs some reason on these issues and on these jobs that we're empowering them for here. The same applies to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Whom an MP, a member of that committee, to ask about foreign policy, relations with other countries, international organisations, ratification of international areas and external trade relations, etc. At this point, we don't have it defined; that someone who doesn't have a legal basis, someone who doesn't have congregation consent, is really inappropriate. Imagine, too, that someone who does not have that congregation authority, or previous legal procedure, comes and begins to sow sparks. Then who's going to explain to the public what's going on there if we only have a record, and who's going to believe that record if we don't have a stenographic note. As for these provisions in Article 13, which concerns who can attend the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that the SRS has one really constructive position, which is that the Assembly is a legislative body, so we are legislators here above all, of course and representative body, to work together at the highest level with parliaments, we have done so so far, with parliamentary groups and delegations. Then the question arises, the representatives of foreign states, are they really necessary within our assembly here, whether it is another level to which they should appear and, above all, I do not know whether these representatives of foreign states would accept to appear before our parliament. A little foreign law and the authority of these representatives of the states should be studied, whether they have the authority to appear before our parliament. It also applies to representatives of foreign governments. I believe that this House should be addressed by the representatives of our government, our ministers. But here you see in some sessions, even they leave the congregation, there's not much respect. And we're asking for a representative of some foreign government to respect us, to come, to sit down. I understand all that if it's protocol, if it's respect. But we, according to these countries, to these parliaments, should treat these governments and representatives of those states with due respect at every turn, at every turn. And whether we're going to have them here in parliament should still be left to some other instance, which in this country should function, just as the Assembly should function. As far as this special session is concerned, we think that these special sessions are sometimes in a particular form and need, and on the other hand, they can have an excuse, but so far we've had these problems and we've solved all these problems. We had our vows, and there's always a chance, it never stopped anyone from doing that job that he was elected to do here. After all, and interrupt that regular session. We can predict that within the Rules of Procedure, so a special session, if it's some new liquid, we can agree to that, but at this point, I think it's a little bit too emphasised on the muscles as well. As far as parliamentary issues are concerned, I think a certain newspaper is being introduced here and we have tried through the amendments we have tried to constructively contribute to adequate work on parliamentary matters. The paper is for citizens to be able to ask parliamentary questions to certain ministers after the meeting's president's appointment. We'll see if that's good or not. What is in our interest is that we still give the same opportunity to both ministers and MPs to ask questions at the same time and get answers at that interval. No one will mind if the minister extends his exposure, and it is not five minutes, but it should be seven minutes, but let it say that the MP and the minister are even, both in the timing of the question and in the time response. In the end, I would just like to say a few words about the parliamentary group of friendships, which really binds to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The SRS has proposed an amendment, which has one of its reasons, which is not to overemphasise the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because we know that there are always voting in this Committee on Foreign Affairs, and people who are to travel on behalf of this Parliament are travelling on the basis of the revote. That's not good. If we can find another way, which is the other way we suggested through the amendments, we could accept such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has its powers. He should be allowed to work, and about who he travels with, who he travels with, and what reports he submits, I think it's arranged in one quite appropriate way and should not be left to the Committee on Foreign Affairs at this point. I'm afraid this provision will come up with sharp criticism, especially the media, because the media has often resented who travels, where he travels, who he travels with, what happens there. It is better for the National Assembly to decide, and they will receive an adequate explanation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this regard, I would suggest that, when we discuss this decision in particular, we adopt amendments to the SRS, which will form and complete this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29527	I thank National MP Milan Stevovic. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had just listened carefully to the president of the National Assembly and his explanation of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. I have concluded that in one of its own specific ways, diplomatically, it wants to convince us of the vindication of this kind of rules of procedure. Although it is clear to us, what to conclude from these statements given by predecessors, and from the very presentation given by the National Assembly President, is that there is an attempt here to substitute that law on ministries of these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is very inappropriate. Because this is trying to find some Solomonian solution in order to meet the needs and address the issue of certain resolution ministries, above all I mean the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Defence and so on, where there are quasiministers, so this is an attempt to resolve the problem in a wise way. As regards these technical problems, technical opportunities and inability, it can be agreed that this assembly does not, perhaps by European standards or normatives, require a number of resources, that technical equipment or the like. Just now, the president of the assembly pointed out that last year was the most, most qualitative, that since the history of this assembly has been no longer worked, and that is, with such poor technical equipment. It's not a problem if we have enough and good technical equipment, it's a problem of how to make a work organisation. If at the same time we can work with ten committees, so you should be 20, 30, maybe more stenogram management officers, of course, that in such a bad organization, you would be overstretched by such an organization, that 90% of the working time would be untapped, which would certainly be irrational. Therefore, technical equipment is to be replaced by good organisation, i.e. redistribution of businesses and the like. Secondly, when it comes to the reasons that are stated here that this is to be done in order to assume the competence of the SCG Community Assembly, in order to extend the Committee's workaround, I don't think this stands, because it could be regulated and solved in another way. I could understand that these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have resolved one question, such as replacing or reducing the number of members of the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, that this Rules of Procedure do not contain more than 300 members, so it is very confusing, it is difficult to manage, certain members overlap, which is very difficult to follow. Especially when the president asks which member it is. Who will now follow when this Rules of Procedure has more members than the Criminal Law. That's why he's very confused and indeterminate. I think it would be better to reduce the members, to make them more efficient, better and more specific, and otherwise, it's uncertainty and confusion in the current rules of procedure, which favours the usurpation of the Rules of Procedure. If it's regularity, so I think it would be better to determine what regular working time is, let's say eight hours is perfectly normal and regular that any worker can work or a healthy man can do his job. But if we take this case, 18 hours today, I don't know if I can get out of here normally, semicontused to kidnap myself to the first hotel. That's why I think these are all the reasons that need to be solved, not this way to solve other things, like the quasi of the ministry and the quasiministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29529	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29530	Here is what the previous speaker, SRS MP, Gačević, said at 12:20 p.m. we are discussing a proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why it had to come to this situation for the National Assembly to discuss these times and this way of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure? The first among the equal of us 250 MPs, the National Assembly President, Mr Markovic, is not present here right now, and as a promoter of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure in some way bear responsibility for why for two and a half years, and even though there were two or three attempts to propose a law on the National Assembly, the National Assembly did not discuss the law, in fact one debate began, so the proposal was withdrawn from the agenda. The basis for the work of the National Assembly is the Law on the National Assembly. If the Government works under the Law on Government, it is logical that the National Assembly also has a law on the basis of which the responsibilities, rights and obligations of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly and all working bodies of the National Assembly are provided. This amendment and supplement is a fact-finding of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the work of the National Assembly to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are amendments and additions to the provisions in this proposal that are in some way justified by the extension of the competences of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its working bodies. But all that has been happening to us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the regular sessions, extraordinary sessions, the relations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly, according to MPs, during the debate on the agenda, have been said here that more than 200 laws have been passed. The government and representatives of the government were not often present during the debate and in principle and in particular, especially on the proposed laws. This clearly explains the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly. When it comes to working bodies, or committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure, which was completed and completed last year, there are 30 committees of the National Assembly. With the change in the conditions for holding meetings of the National Assembly, for their work and flow, from the quorum for the adoption of the 126th agenda, and the beginning of the session with 84 members of the Assembly present and the debate without obligation to attend the MPs, it clearly speaks of the responsibility of the one who proposed that the National Assembly could therefore discuss legislative proposals. I don't think a lot of citizens are watching this direct television broadcast right now, that citizens are reacting when in the course of the day a direct TV transmission is, why the Hall of the National Assembly is empty. There are some proposals for the laws of interested citizens, when they want to hear what the bill is, what is the proposal for certain legal provisions, what is the discussion of the parliamentary groups, how the government's representatives explain the draft laws or certain provisions. And when they see an empty room, they ask the question, why they allocate funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget and why they allocate funds for the costs of the National Assembly. Also, a question can be asked for a specific parliamentary group that, now to be completed for a year, with two or three exceptions, does not enter this hall of the National Assembly. How many of Serbia's citizens, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, took funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is their right as a parliamentary group to obstruct or boycott the work of the National Assembly, but they cannot be rewarded for it on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And most citizens of the Republic of Serbia have a hard time living, but they carry out regular obligations towards the state, according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When I spoke about the work of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the work of the Committee with an amendment of the Rules of Procedure turned into a formality. And here he tries to change this Rules of Procedure so they can be committee sessions without agenda. But what has been happening for the past year through the work of many committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is a mere formality and satisfaction of the form, without the essential work of the committees responsible and discussing the points of the agenda. In particular, the committees that are in the previous procedure are also obliged by the Rules of Procedure to discuss the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And not to mention the committees that have great importance and responsibility. I'll mention one committee, the Privatisation Committee. Under the Privatisation Act, I believe that Article 62, the Privatisation Committee is the only one responsible for controlling all authorities in the privatisation process under the Privatisation Act, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Privatisation, the Privatisation Agency and all of those parts of the Privatisation Agency. We were not in a situation like the MPs, except for the members of the Committee, thanks to the president of this committee, Mr. Novakovic, who is not here tonight, that many of the problems, many of the calls of the workers in the robbery through privatisation, were not found on the agenda of this committee, and that not one word from the Committee president, from the members of the Committee representing the majority in this National Assembly, to go out for a pay phone and to say what happens through privatisation in Serbia and robbery. In the process of robbery and kidnapping of hundreds of thousands of workers in Serbia not to react and take action and not to carry out their duties and competent state authorities, neither the Ministry, nor the prosecution, nor the courts, and we have a hopeless, hopeless situation in which workers of these hijacked enterprises were found through privatisation. I believe that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure also required the committees to report to the National Assembly on their work, especially this Privatisation Committee or the Privatisation Control Committee, to inform the National Assembly of what is happening. I'm not in the loop, and I don't know, but I'm guessing we have hundreds of requests from the Privatisation Committee, hundreds of companies, with a bunch of documentation, material evidence of what I'm talking about. The special session here has already been discussed, as envisioned by this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. On Article 13, that a session of the National Assembly may, at the invitation of the National Assembly, be attended by representatives of foreign states, representatives of members of foreign governments, this should not be merely a right, that if there is a need to declare the people to the Assembly, rather than that it depends on the president himself of the National Assembly. On parliamentary issues and what is now being proposed, why have we not had back in two years' time a report on the government's work, to come to the government, to come to the ministers and to report on the work of the entire government and certain ministries. Unfortunately, we didn't get that, but the government didn't do it backwards for two years towards MPs and the National Assembly. How long will the question, how many answers, I think it's absurd here to measure minutes and say three minutes for a question, and five minutes for an answer, or someone will measure a stopwatch here, Mr. Markovic, or one of the vice presidents who replaces it. Finally, as part of the proposed amendments in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I proposed an amendment to Article 19. The proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, which refers to Article 238(1) of the Foreign Affairs Committee, is replaced by the words "The National Assembly"; paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The composition of the delegation must express a proportionate representation of the size of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly". In the third word, the Foreign Affairs Committee is replaced by the words "The National Assembly". In order not to get into a situation where delegations are set to visit foreign countries, to visit abroad to be revoted, but according to the size of parliamentary groups to determine those delegations and to be decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, all of these delegations, which so far, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on their paths, where they were and what they were doing, with whom they met and what they had brought about for the state and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29531	I thank Mr. Cevrovic. The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and the Messenger of the people is prepared, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29532	Ladies and gentlemen, at first I must join the opinion of the previous speaker and commend Mr. Peric, who has already taken the honorable place because he will be in my first sentence. He did not seem to be able to cope with this abundance of Rules of Procedure serving the congregation, so I found myself in such a situation. Although I'm properly classifying the paperwork, today I've been going through the drawers and I've found a lot of Rules of Procedure, I've barely found the line that I can rely on, or compare these changes and additions. However, there is no president here, and I wanted to ask him one question, and you'll probably agree, either it's my fault or it's his. If you have before you the text of the Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it further suggests that it be in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure shall be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. Below, it stands, in Belgrade, on 26 September 2005. Now that's my question to him, whether he wrote it right then or this is a printing error, but I'd rather accept that it was a printing mistake than that he was waiting for the law to move fast for a year. After all, I wonder why this law should have been passed in the first place, and I don't think it should have been passed, and I'm going to try not to put these devices in the heat state, this one, as he said, on the advice of the President of the Parliament. Which means my speech will be shorter than usual. However, I feel a little uncomfortable when at this deaf time of night I go out for a pay phone and there are only a few MPs here. (President: There is now something more common than during the day. I see there's a lot of yellow cards on the monitor, and what I see in front of me isn't exactly a crowd of people. So, I say the deaf time of night and this reminds me that something is done somehow under the grain or hidden, or reminds me of that glamour "Nemo Wheel", as they say, or the former cutting of the Slavic cake, when fame was kept, the tradition maintained, but it was not boldly public. However, I assure you that Serbia is awake and at this point, don't think that I say it revolutionaryly, but that people are awake at this time of night, because the gray everyday life makes them sleep through the day, not seeing everything that happens around them, and at night they sit and think, they are awake. So, the people are watching us, no matter what you think about it. Now let me go back specifically. I won't take up much of your time, I'll only talk about two members. I'll talk about the records first. This Zirkovic as if he had been subscribed to throw. So the records, or stenograms, should be kept on each committee, which is the order. And here's a reason. When I presented myself on a committee and started speaking, I introduced myself as Tomislav Penezic, but the minutes included Slobodan Penezic and called me these G17 "Krcun". Probably eager for Serbian radicals to taste a little Serbian blood. However, it will not allow itself to do so by Serbian radicals. Second, Article 202, under ð, and it has eight letters. (President: Mr Albianic has arrived, don't worry. He also calls me Krcun. I didn't mean anything by it. Just to find Article 202, I'm looking for him, I can't handle this law again. He says in point 1: "if the MP's question contains claims, evaluations and assessments, the minister in charge has the right to deny the answer. “ Now I wonder how a person can ask a question without hinting at any gesture. (President: We delete that. And you're erasing? (President: Yes, he has become an integral part of the Rules of Procedure, he has an amendment. Then all right. If it's erased, that's not what I'm talking about. (President: What you were about to say now, I spoke on the board, but it said to delete, so... Mr Meho Omerovic submitted the amendment, so you didn't see. It doesn't say here. I'm not looking at Meh's amendments, I'm just looking at the amendments to the SRS, although I respect my colleague Meh, there's no problem, but I'm saying I'm just sticking to what we think, because we don't need someone else's opinion. I've just brought two amendments here from those major amendments, but the predecessors have already spoken, Cetrovic talked about it, told others about the time to ask a parliamentary question and the minister's answer, and I don't think there are any and there should be restrictions. As a conclusion, I don't think we should have had all this, that we had a good Rules of Procedure, not a good one, but better than this, and that we shouldn't have brought it, and that we shouldn't have stayed this long, but that we should have gone home like a normal world to rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29533	I also thank you for helping us get home as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Radisa Ilic, and to prepare the last speaker for tonight, I hope, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29534	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President of the Assembly gives us a longer speech and instead of sitting here in the O.R., he goes outside to wait for us to finish the discussion and then he'll come in, and he'll say something again, but I still think he belongs here in the Assembly room. When I look at the screen, I see 86 MPs present and I begin to believe that Markovic is somehow right, it appears that the system overheated or some MPs, apparently from the ruling coalition, have misused the parliamentary cards. Mr. Chairman, you could reset the system, see how many MPs there really are in the O.R. (President: As soon as the debate is over, we will reset the system immediately, and if it is not 127, we will not vote. ) About four hours, when they gather to vote. As the President of the Assembly presented this motion for a decision, one would think it was a matter of life and death. First of all, the fact that this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was not made in time is the fault of the ruling majority. The fact that some European countries are mentioned as well, that's fine, but I doubt that's what they discussed in this vampire midnight term, as is now being done here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The motion for a decision concerns the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a bit of a surprise why such haste over the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure. If it was known that you needed these changes and additions due to the constitution, due to a special session, because it was said on the RTS news at 9:00 p.m., which was then one minute to twelve, and now MPs from your coalition are being arrested and night birds are being played. When radicals win the upcoming elections, the National Assembly will receive the right Rules of Procedure, which will not make us laugh and will not be cursed by citizens of Serbia. The people were fed up with watching an empty hall just because this current ruling coalition had brought in such a contrived Rules of Procedure. What is going through this Rules of Procedure is the connection of some committees to ministries that do not exist. It's about the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The problem also appeared in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, when the phantom ministries, headed by illegals Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic, re-emerged. They act as some ministers, they go from one ambassador to another, a military attaché, and to that country they defend and represent. Some members of the motion for a decision turn out to regulate the work of the committee more closely than the work of parliament itself. Here, in Article 8, for example, a parachute is allowed to call and hold a session without determining the agenda. Now the question is, do we have a congregation board or a circle or a round table? This is how we look insecure. So then you can also call a session of the Assembly without determining the agenda, so we're all here to be informed of the will. Article 10 does not provide for the obligation to keep stenographic notes for all committees in the Serbian Parliament, which is another evidence of arbitraryness in certain members of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, all committees must have equal treatment. Why discrimination on certain committees? Some do sound recording of the course of the session, some do not. Some committees make stenographic notes, some do not, although it is impossible to hold meetings of all assembly committees together, so as the president of the assembly says, we do not have so many stenographers available. Parliament has mirrored a state and there is no room for arbitraryity and improvisation in the matter of functioning, among other things, of the Assembly committees. In Article 12, we are playing with the National Assembly again. This provision provides that the president of the National Assembly may decide to hold part of the session elsewhere. However, MPs are also said to be informed 24 hours before the start of the session. That the war is fine, so we can move the sessions of the National Assembly, but it's not. They're not floods, we're not in a rotting area, we're not in a cave building, so let's run. They're not even close to DOS, which is the custom of burning down the assembly at the time of the cruise, so we can change the place. If we keep this up, we'll be just like the ones on the RTS show - wedding 48 hours. So, as we've heard on the case of the old refrigerator, the reasons for Article 12 are fractured. So, we're being threatened by overheating of the system, power outages, leaks, floods in the O.R., and so forth. Now it turns out we didn't even know what conditions we were working on. I wonder what would have happened if the state union of Serbia-Montenegro hadn't fallen apart, we'd probably have gotten out of here, Malten, like chronic patients. Also, several members of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia reduce the importance of the National Assembly itself, as it is possible for the Assembly to attend meetings, alongside the president of foreign states and representatives of international organisations -- even various delegations, members of foreign governments, and the possibility of "other guests". So one day Kushner and Walker and Holbrook, as well as Carla del Ponte, can walk in on the general joy of those who arrest the general, the Serbian hero, Ratko Mladic in vain. Such a possibility shall be provided for in Articles 13 and 114a. As for international organisations, the SRS is in the view that only international organisations whose Serbia is a full member come into consideration. In Article 238. The SRS insists "the National Assembly decides on visitation initiatives and official talks with representatives of other states, or their parliamentary representatives". This proposed member gives the possibility to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and therefore intervenes with the amendment in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29535	I thank Mr. Ilic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. There are no more entries for the word on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29536	At first, I would like to inform and remind young MPs and those who have long been MPs in the National Assembly that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had the best Rules of Procedure in 1991. The Rules of Procedure did not aim to regulate everything that was happening in the National Assembly, so it could work. It was a Rules of Procedure without any restrictions when it came to working in this congregation hall. Of course, then there was a problem of efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29537	Enough, enough. You were as small as the opposition, and that's why we quickly passed the laws. Mr Krasic did not exist at the time as a party, so we quickly passed laws. Here you go, Mr. Crassy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29538	Well, if this replica is over, then I can talk about what's on the agenda. Of course, I am not in charge of treating the frustrations of the long past, 1991 and so on, but I must conclude that the rules of procedure promoted all the leaders of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which was created in 2000. Little did anyone know about Paroška, Djindjic, Dragoljub Micunovic, who used to use those mangupic jokes here at the time -- light fire, let them go, then go home to lunch, then come back at five o'clock and say, "Aman people, we've been working all day, give us something to finish." That's what the public of Serbia needs to know. It was still the best Rules of Procedure. Later, when restrictions started, restrictions on the rights that an MP can exercise in this room here, and above all the right to use a pay phone -- then, as excuses, were imposed on reasons of efficiency, the threat of the country, the lack of democracy, etc. It was certainly the highlight of the Erosion of the Rules of Procedure, proposed by Dragan Marsican, who first introduced restrictions, then sanctions, and, behold, the MPs from his parliamentary group became the victim of the Rules of Procedure after only a year. This is one small retrospective, not because I think this proposal by Mr Markovic is good or bad, but just to draw attention to the MPs that every proposal when it comes to the Rules of Procedure deserves a serious debate, not in these small hours, but a serious debate, and certainly not an urgent procedure, that within two days of being seduced into the office of the bill until the vote, but probably some longer period of time, so that all MP groups can see what it is all about. We have also warned the speaker, Mr Markovic, that there will be no such efficiency in the work of the National Assembly, because the Rules of Procedure cannot arrange certain things arising from the political attitude, different political views, the right to talk in parliament about problems and what is on the agenda. And of course, we've all become victims of this Rules of Procedure. I am now going to refer to certain provisions of the draft decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps the only positive thing about this initiative for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure is to do the part of the work that is under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly within a certain period of time. There's an end to positive things, everything else isn't positive, everything else is bad. The motion for this decision was, I am absolutely sure, in the light of the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted on 21 July 2006, and probably in certain provisions of the proposal for this decision, followed by the fact that the amendment and supplementation of the Ministry Act had not come on the agenda, and then the decision appeared. Although the Rules of Procedure regulate the work of the National Assembly and constitutional authority are in the Constitution for this kind of general act, it must be noted here that there are major shortcomings. Let's take it in a row. Here, the Rules of Procedure raises some questions that are necessary and must be arranged by means of an act on the organisation of the National Assembly. That's first of all this provision that says the board has a secretary. There's not much analogy to get out of the fact that the National Assembly has a secretary. The secretary of the National Assembly is a functioner, and the secretary of the board is not a functioner. The secretary of the National Assembly has certain rights and responsibilities in relation to the National Assembly as a state authority, and the secretary of the committee has certain rights and responsibilities in relation to the working body of the National Assembly. That analogy was wrong to be present. As far as the Defence and Security Committee is concerned, I don't know who decided to call us the Army of Serbia. It's prescribed by law, and we don't have a law where our armed forces are called the Army of Serbia. This morning, I drew your attention that, as far as the SRS is concerned, we would prefer the name of the Serbian Army. Here we see today at this point that we do not have an official name, neither the Serbian army nor the Serbian army, we have this in the jargon, but we do not have a legal act. And that's the only legal act that can define that is the military law. How someone can prejudge something that needs to be regulated by law, and the bill doesn't even exist. The existing law, according to some inert that applies to the military and the defence at the level of the state community, is disproportionately out of line with what happened after 8 June 2006. When it comes to defence, we probably need to think about a sort of division of jurisdiction, in one part of the National Assembly, and in another part of the government, and only in the third part of the President of the Republic, as president of the Supreme Defence Council. Now it's just an idea and some analogy that should be present, but there's no general act that regulates it all. How, then, can we rule out the matter with our own rules of procedure? It would be the same if the government of the Republic of Serbia didn't tell me now, but would say the council of the ministers of the Republic of Serbia. In that rank is this change proposed in Article 3. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Furthermore, as far as the Committee on Foreign Affairs is concerned, the question is, who would file a report on the ministry's work, nor is there a ministry, nor is there a minister. Who are we supposed to check out here? Is it theoretically possible today to submit a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs? It's theoretically impossible. Why? Because it doesn't exist. However, I see that Zoran Stankovic exists in today's issue of "Pres" as a wealthy pensioner and minister. Read a little, you actually read a newspaper in the National Assembly, read a serious newspaper, and if it's not a serious newspaper, you start some procedure, and prove the inconclusiveness of the newspaper. Call once, and explain what you have, and I understand when it comes to you, but explain it to the citizens of Capca from this pay phone, if they're from Nis, I don't know if it's clear to them; so it's clear to them, too. Furthermore, we have a provision that changes this kind of game of what the seat of the National Assembly is, where the House of the National Assembly is, where the National Assembly is ambushed, a completely relevant matter for the Rules of Procedure at the moment. That's why I don't think it takes that speed at all, at all costs, to install it today. And this is really weird that committees can hold sessions without determining the agenda, because if there's no agenda, then there's no session. I don't mind you coming out here and explain all that, sign up like they said here, you probably didn't read this decision, so comment, but it says here. I can't add or subtract. It is a very interesting provision that the National Assembly can set up a meeting elsewhere, which is being notified by the MPs. I have to tell you, probably 70% of the call for a session of the National Assembly we get through RTS or a telegram, or a parliamentary group. A rule by Natasa Micic, I must say, was introduced to deliver the agenda to the parliamentary group on Friday, around 5:00 p.m., with an appointment of the beginning of the session, either Monday or Tuesday, and the time for amendments expires Saturday night or Sunday night. Although there is a very clear provision in the Rules of Procedure in which the session is called, there is always some excusable reason why something had to be urgent. Furthermore, I must draw attention to the fact that this really is not clear about calling for a session, where at the invitation of the National Assembly the presidents of foreign states may attend, etc. We have submitted an amendment, which you will not accept. I couldn't understand the reason. Why? Without this provision, we have had several times in this assembly the situation that at the gallery were representatives of some foreign international organisations, representatives of foreign states, etc. The basis for the presence was the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which allowed the president to invite them and allow them to attend, etc. There was no problem, but we are parliament, we need to maintain relations first and foremost with parliaments of other states. There used to be this interparliamentary union, where we were members, and where parliamentarians exchanged experiences on issues concerning parliamentaryism, not executive authorities or judicial authorities. No, there have been exchanges of experiences on how parliaments function and whether there is a way, a method of working for parliament to have the best and the best of work. Because in all parliaments, they are trying to put in place those provisions that will allow all areas and issues of importance to be explored on the basis of the bill. The second principle, which is important for parliamentaryism, is that this is a pay phone where different attitudes should be heard. Different attitudes should be heard here. Furthermore, the procedure for ratification of the international treaty and of the second agreement. Mr. Markovic, this was obviously taken over from the Rules of Procedure, which was in effect in the National Assembly. But there's a big problem here, and there was this big problem. We have witnessed here many times that the National Assembly, or to be more precise, has been brought before the final act by the congregation. Because when such a bill comes for ratification, then there's a dilemma, you take it or leave it, or you have to take it at all costs, because if you leave it, the state gets confused. He doesn't embarrass the Minister who signed something. He took the responsibility, the government probably authorized him. Previously, in the federal government's practice, the rule was that a real platform for negotiations was approved, so some work on the draft contract, so the draft contract was given to the federal government to consider it, and other authorities gave their opinion. The act of signing itself is the one, if I may say, formal protocolary, and it's essentially finished in the competent authorities, and everyone has declared it, and there's no unknown. However, we in practice have a situation to come to a ratification agreement and then when the contract is read, which is usually a Article 3 or 2 of the Bill on ratification of international contracts and agreements, and there is a whole text of an international contract or agreement, it is evident that there are provisions which the state assumes that we or we cannot fulfil, or if we fulfill them to the state of great damage. It's not just our country's problem. Other countries have noticed this, so they have adapted the ratification procedure, that it has essentially two or three parts. One of these parts is a preliminary examination of an act that should have some form in the future, so some prior consent by the National Assembly is given, as the only one authorized to ratify. Yeah, when he comes to ratification afterwards, there's no doubt and there's no such thing as not to pass the ratification law. I don't know how much you've been monitoring the work of the National Community Assembly. There were over 10 laws that were not passed, 10 draft laws on the ratification of some agreements that were not adopted for various reasons, and sometimes because it wasn't enough in most of those who should vote, and sometimes because people who make up the majority in the assembly, two or three go out and the ratification of the agreement falls. In some agreements, we have taken the obligation to fulfill certain things before ratification. Just to remind you of some of the agreements that we have in some way confirmed here, where in transitional and final provisions it is said to come into force immediately, or some other formulation that says, comes into effect after the instruments of ratification are obtained, but it is preventively allowed to enter into force of such an international agreement. I think a completely different procedure should be prescribed here. It should probably have two, three or four instances before it reaches this member, because Article 149a, it needs to be preceded by several members. It does not matter whether this permeable force is going to the Assembly and the final phase to go over the working body, committees, etc. That doesn't matter at this point. But we can't get into a situation where as a state, we embarrass ourselves by not ratifying an agreement. Brooke is bigger if the opposite party in its parliament has ratified the agreement, and here for some reasons, it doesn't matter which one, there was no ratification. Then it is a clear message that this is an unserious state, a non-serious government, that those who have signed the agreement do not have a majority in the National Assembly and cannot provide ratification. In order not to do so, some other mechanisms are needed. Probably one of these mechanisms is to ask the opposition in the National Assembly about the draft, the proposal, the initiative to conclude some bilateral agreement. You have seen yourself, in these countries with developed parliamentary democracy, very often there are significant international agreements, agreements are ratified unanimously. Why? Because all those involved in the work of the legislative body were involved in the conclusion of such an international agreement involving our country. By including them, they took the obligation to look at it and participate in it, and eventually to vote for the ratification law. It's not here because you just moved those provisions. Furthermore, in Article 202, this is some new institute, a parliamentary issue regarding the topic in question. It's written here in one, and I see that several ministers are being spoken of, and I don't know if the current issue is from the jurisdiction of a multiple ministry, which can be interested, or if it's possible to be more of a subject. It's not clearly demarcated here. We don't have much luck with interpretations either. That's what you have to say. That's one of our problems. We've got problems with these MPs as well as other things. I'd just like to explain this Article 239(2) a little bit more. It is a chapter of the National Assembly with representative bodies of other countries and the participation of its representatives in the work of individual international organisations and missions. We have submitted an amendment to Article 239(2) that the proposal for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations under Article 1 of this article refers to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and other multilateral parliamentary institutions. We have suggested that this text remain in paragraph 2: "The motion for a decision on the composition of the permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, (and this text that you have proposed below to be replaced by the text) "and by the proportion of the number of MPs that the MPs have in the National Assembly. “ This is a condition for these international organisations, because they also want parliamentary delegations to have a picturesque composition of the National Assembly, of course by political options, because it is shared there by political options, rather than by states, so that they go to nationalities, they go to socialists, and radicals to Democrats, groups there that exist in parliamentary congregations. That's the split, what do I do to you, that's how you got caught, the Democrats are with the Socialists, the DSS and the G17 plus are with the peoples and the Democrats, and we're with these Democrats here. I guess now you realize that radicals basically mean we're radical Democrats. Europe has so confessed, now that you can't understand it, there's nothing I can do about it. It's very small hours to make sense to you today. And Syria is a very advanced state, if you didn't know, Damascus is the oldest city-populated place on the planet. I can do one, I can't do ten. I know it's late, but you'll have to wait a little longer, vote, then go to sleep. Mr. Krassic, you go ahead. Not paying attention to them, ignoring them. (President: Totally.) I agree, Mr. Angelkovic, this is the right advice. So these delegations should have this composition that corresponds to the schedule and strength of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. That's what it takes. Why? Because whenever an opportunity arises, all options should be heard in the working bodies of these parliamentary congregations. I think the next week at the Council of Europe for Serbia will be two points of interest, one is the state of human rights in Serbia, and the other will be the one relating to KIM. It is good to hear all our options in all the working bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but also to hear this unique attitude that essential autonomy can, independence cannot. In the end, I'd say I think this is premature, unnecessary to bring. If someone thinks that by adopting this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the National Assembly fulfils its obligation under the decision to take matters out of the jurisdiction of the state community by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, then I need to draw your attention formally, it can meet some criteria, but it essentially does not meet the criteria, because we still need to monitor with our work-body schedule how the executive authority is organised. We can't follow it today because we have a lot more working bodies and committees than there are ministries in the Republic and Government, but I really interpret something as the result of some legacy from the period when Natasa Micic is here of all things and everything the committee rules as the working body of the National Assembly. It'd be better if it was reduced a little bit. This extends the competences of two or three committees, and for that there is no legal basis, because we have to follow something in the organization and in our work. Secondly, which, in my view, is even more important, is that there is an attempt here, because hundreds of people have signed an initiative, or a motion for an extraordinary session, and by some logic things are expected to vote on all these proposals that are on this agenda. But I must draw your attention to the fact that what you think should be voted quickly now, because there will be no assembly after that, since another parliamentary group is coming out of the National Assembly in a few days, it can be fought over by the head. (President: do you know anything more than we do, Mr. Krassic? I merely made an assumption that is very certain, since people boast that they are of word, to keep their word. Whoever questions it, let him explain, I don't mind, everyone has a right to his own personal position. I like that personal attitude of yours, even though I encourage you to go out for this pay phone to say, "The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born, you can say it." SRS all variants match. Why? Because the truth always wins, maybe a little late, but it'll win. You're very brave to me in these small hours. Don't complain, you throw rudely, and you represent yourself to the great Democrats. It is a major problem with Serbian parliamentaryism. That's the problem, like that kid in the first grade, draws something, so he writes down -- a horse, so everyone knows it's a horse. It's the same with Serbian democracy. He jumps a younger man and says, "I'm a Democrats, and he thinks he's sucked all the oars, all the stars are down, he knows everything." The excuse, the excuse, the reason for all the nonsense is - I'm a Democrats. But I don't mind it, I'm glad you're acting like one. I just have to tell you, you've disappointed your sponsors. You weren't informed, there was almost one group of people, one expert was coming, so he was a little surprised what our Rules of Procedure looked like, some things weren't clear to him, like. Is this five hours for all the parliamentary groups or for each individual, so when he saw the fine, he said - where is that court punishing him, so when he heard that he was threatening to take away immunity, criminal charges, taking away words, he said, it doesn't exist in Western Europe. And they spoke to your MP group. I'd be very happy to know if perhaps you represented your MP group when you spoke to that man in Brussels. I'm a great master, you see how I pulled you out to run out, to show yourself in the right light, I'm extremely glad. These few people who might be watching this transmission, I guess they get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29539	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Krasic to finish. I thank Mr. Krasic. I thank you, too, for helping us bring an end to this debate. I thank all the Members of the People for their contribution and for all that they have contributed to the change of Rules of Procedure. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right of Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. () Since we have completed a single search of the motion for a decision, does the proponent, MP Predrag Markovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on amendments submitted to the motion for a decision in general in the day to vote. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and Deputy Member of the Republic of Election Commission You have received a proposal for a decision with an amendment, submitted by Parliament MP Zoran Nikolic. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately. According to Article 160(2), I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision in general. Does the MP's representative, MP Zoran Nikolic, want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 93(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the search was opened, no one reported the word. Since there is no one registered for a word on the list of parliamentary groups, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? Article 142. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – The selection of two members of the PROGRAMME COMMITTEE OF THE SERBIA SERBIA, which are selected from THE RED OF PEOPLES You have received a list of candidates for the selection of two members of the Programme Committee of the Broadcasting Institution of Serbia who are elected from the order of Members of Parliament, which was established by the Committee of the National Assembly for Culture and Information. You've received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately. According to Article 160(2), I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision in general. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information want the word, MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Does the Prime Minister want a word? No, I don't. ) I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 93(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the search was opened, no one reported the word. Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day to elect two members of the Programme Committee of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – REQUIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the re-vote on the Law on Amendments and Completions of the Radio-DIFUSION Law, remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session in 2006, held on 19 July 2006, adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio-Difusion. You have received a request from the President of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 84(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio-Difusion and the Text of Laws and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio-Difusion. The President of the Republic stated in the request: - that the provisions of Article 6 of the Law seriously prejudice the independence and independence of the regulatory body, the Republic Broadcasting Agency, in relation to the executive authority; - that the provisions of Articles 10 and 13 of the Law subsequently change the conditions laid down for the allocation and use of frequencies, which put participants in this procedure in an unequal position; - that the provisions of Article 11 of the Law have been given too much discretion to the Republic Broadcasting Agency, creating conditions for the significant violation of freedom of the media in Serbia and the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of expression, and - that, in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 84(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to sign an order to declare the law and to refer the law to the National Assembly for a re-election. I remind you he's a member of 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the President of the Republic declares the law within seven days of its adoption in the National Assembly. In that time, the President of the Republic may request that the National Assembly vote again on the law. Also, Article 185(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are laid down that, if the President of the Republic of the Constitution requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law, the President of the National Assembly shall immediately deliver the request to the MPs and put the law on the agenda of the next session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly, in accordance with the above provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will again vote again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio-Difusion. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on the agenda points of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 September 2006, at 01.35 p.m., as the day for voting on the agendas of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-28-0.u29540	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again great gratitude for the tenacity and the way you do your job. In line with the decision of the Vice-President of the Assembly, we will now approach the vote, following the conclusion of the single debates, concerning decisions that were on the agenda. Before we move on to the vote, we ask you to determine if we have a quorum. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, I realize that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become an amendment of the National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meh Omerović to Members 13 and 18 and National MP Milos Aligrudić to Article 14, with correction, since they have been accepted by the Proposer and Administrative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, the National Assembly should be made aware of the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the draft decision, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which contains a legal-technical editorial of the text of the draft decision. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 129 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. In fact, these were all unique searches, so first we declare the amendments. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 14 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, 15 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstention one, not 19, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 109, 19 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 23, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, 16 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 14, a new member of 114a, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, a abstentioned one, not a vote of 15, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, new Article 202b, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 105, 23 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, new Article 202g, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, new Article 202d, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, new member 202ð, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, they did not vote 22 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 19, new Article 238, the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 106, they did not vote 22 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 19, new Article 239, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 19, a new member of 239a, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, it did not vote 18 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 19, new Article 239b, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the draft decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 129 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank all of you, especially Mr. Peric. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT AND THE Deputy MEMBER OF THE REPUBLICAL COMMISSION As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to appoint a president and deputy member of the Republic Election Commission, with a correction, in general. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to appoint a president and deputy member of the Republic Election Commission, with a correction, in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – The election of the two members of the PROGRAMME COMMITTEE OF THE SERBIA SERBIA, which is elected by the National Assembly, after having carried out a single search, we are going to vote on the proposed candidates. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Aleksandar Vukic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 98, against 9, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly has elected MP Alexander Vukic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Momir Markovic as a member of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. For 85, against 30, two abstentions, 20 did not vote, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly has elected MP Momir Markovic as a member of the Radiodifuge Institute of Serbia's Programme Committee. Having held a vote on candidates for two members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, allow me, on your behalf and on your behalf, to congratulate the elected members and wish them success in their work. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – REQUIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is re-voting the Law on Amendments and Completions of the Labour Law, and I am putting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting. For 115, against three, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has re-voted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Broadcasting. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all the points in the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the regular session begins on October 1st, and until then there are only two more days of emergency session and it is an obligation for everyone who wants to propose a agenda, or some session, to do so by 17.00 a.m. at the latest. Thank you.
