ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27858	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No MPs have been reported to have been prevented from attending this session. We are moving to a joint review of the 11th and 12th points of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SECURITAL BUSINESS AND SUPPLACE OF THE PAYMENT LAW A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda under points 11 and 12, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on the draft foreign exchange law and the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27859	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current Foreign Affairs Act was passed in April 2002. It was one of the key laws at the time, which allowed for the completion of the internal convergence of dinars and by passing that law we accepted Article 8. The Statute of the International Monetary Fund, which introduced convergence in all current payments with abroad. This law is probably one of the better laws that has been passed during the transition period, but in the meantime there has been a reform in the real sector of the economy, a liberalisation of the conditions of rejuvenation, and that is why we decided to go with an even greater liberalisation of payment flows and payment operations abroad. That is why we are now proposing that the Republic of Serbia adopt its foreign exchange law, since this law that was now in force was a federal law. I'll tell you what's the biggest newspaper that's been brought in here. First, we had to bring this law into line with the laws that have been passed over the last four years, which are tangling this area. These are primarily the new Foreign Trade Act, the Bank Act, the Voluntary Pension Funds Act, as well as the Securities Market Act. Also, we have one federal law from 1992, it's the Credit Law, which is still in force. We felt that this law should be abolished and that the rules governing this matter should be incorporated into the single foreign exchange law, i.e. to reduce the number of regulations governing this matter. As far as newspapers are concerned in this bill, compared to this federal law, which, if adopted, will cease to apply, above all, this law includes foreign credit transactions, and it is proposed to suspend the 1992 Law on Credit Affairs with Foreign Affairs. This law provides for a longer deadline for the payment of exports, i.e. for imports of pre-paid goods and services. In the current law, that deadline was 90 days, we extend it to 180 days in order to reduce administration in this area and enable an even greater degree of liberalisation to be carried out, but still with the instruments of control of export collection, i.e. imports after advance payment. This law allows the purchase and sale of debts and claims resulting from external trade. We also liberalise additional capital transactions, because, as you know, in the current law, current foreign transactions were completely free, but capital transactions in one part were limited. Now one part of the capital transactions are liberalised, and the following capital transactions are: long-term securities transactions, financial derivatives transactions, investment and voluntary pension funds, insurance-based transactions, while investment in short-term charters remains limited to residents in the country, i.e. residents abroad, except for the National Bank of Serbia and the Business Bank. We also allow free payment and transfer of capital based on direct investment by residents, legal entities, entrepreneurs and natural persons abroad. It wasn't possible by law so far, so different companies figured out how to do it. So it is now possible that our Serbian firms have direct investment abroad, but not just legal persons, but also natural persons and entrepreneurs engaged in certain activities. We allow loans in foreign exchanges to residents, natural persons to buy immovable property in the country, which was not allowed by previous law. Payment is made for the acquisition of property on the property of residents abroad and non-residents in Serbia, it is now freely in accordance with the law governing property and legal relations. It is also possible that a branch of a foreign legal person, a resident, can transfer from a foreign account to a settlement of tax obligations. It's a free transfer from the savings exchange and dinar account of the non-resident. This law also formally provides for the possibility to educate or introduce a foreign currency inspectorate as the body of the Ministry of Finance in charge of the control of foreign trade, primarily foreign exchange, business and, of course, sets stricter sanctions for fictitious contracts or untrue documents for over 100,000 euros. Now it's being treated like a felony, so not only as a crime, but as a crime. Therefore, the criminal part under this law is considered to be a payment, payment or payment of payment orders based on fictitious contracts or untrue documents for an amount of more than 100,000 euros. It is precisely the foreign exchange inspection within the Ministry of Finance during the previous period of its work that there have been cases where, on the basis of fictitious contracts or untrue documents, payment or payment in foreign exchanges and so far, we have only been able to prosecute offenders, we now want to introduce criminal liability, so to tighten sanctions for those who violate this law. I have to say, this law is conjectured on so-called. a positive approach, which means that everything that is prescribed is allowed, and vice versa – that not everything that is not prescribed is not allowed. Why is this approach good for us? Because such an approach reduces the need for additional interpretations. Of course, this approach is more understandable for both domestic and foreign investors. Those would be the basic characteristics of this law. I would like to point out one curiosity – this is the first law since I worked as a finance minister to whom no amendment has reached today, even though it has not reached the beginning of the debate with our inspectorate. As far as the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments is concerned, it is only one member to be amended. In fact, this change in the Law allows foreign legal entities in the Republic of Serbia to open a current account with banks, allowing them to operate as residents in the payment system. The point of why we do this is that we want to support the greater presence of foreign companies and their business in our country with as little risk as possible. Simply, we want as many foreign direct investment in Serbia as possible, we want to enable equal treatment with domestic businesses. The bottom line is that we are thus harmonising this law with the practices and laws of the countries in the environment, where it is also possible for branches, or branches of foreign companies to participate in payment and open current accounts. It's only one member's change, so I wouldn't keep your attention any longer. So the foreign exchange law is one of the system laws. Given that Serbia currently has convergence in current foreign transactions, and that we have further liberalised some capital transactions with this law, I can say that the next phase in the development of legislative activity in this field will be the abolition of this law, because in the last phase, the law on foreign exchange and all foreign exchange transactions will then become free. This will happen when conditions are obtained that Serbia also has an external convergence of dinars, then there is no need for any law that regulates the area, because all transactions are completely free. We now have free current transactions and one share of capital, but we still had to keep one part of the capital transaction-related cap due to the country's payment-balance risk. When will the abolition of this law occur, of course, it is difficult to predict. I will give only one comparative example: Slovenia, which was the fastest in transition, which as the most developed country entered the European Union, for ten years had a convergence in current payments, and after ten years created conditions for the abolition of the law. Given that we adopted our Foreign Exchange Act in April 2002, the assumption is that in five or six years we too will be in a position to abolish the foreign exchange law and declare convergence completely, both in capital terms and in current transactions. At this point, as you know, as a result and this law, the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserve amounts to $8 billion. When this law was introduced, they amounted to over a billion dollars, so they increased eight times from 2002 to today. That was one of the reasons we decided to return a billion dollars to the IMF before the deadline. One tranche will be already during this summer, and by May next year the entire NBS debt will be fully settled according to the IMF, given that the current level of foreign reserves allows for the coverage of imports by eight months. It used to be only a month, and now with our foreign exchange reserves we can cover eight months of imports. Some standard even for more developed countries is six months of foreign reserve coverage. So, you don't need to have bigger reserves and that's why we're going to pay back completely this debt before the deadline. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that in the voting day, we will all support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27860	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic, an authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27861	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a foreign exchange law. The previous law has made significant changes and made it possible to introduce the convergence of national currency. The amendments that this law adopts are as follows: what is significant is that credit operations with abroad that have not been treated so far are treated with this law, and above all because, in one place, in one serious and comprehensive way, all the jobs we have with abroad are observed. What will be extremely important for the economy and what will be extremely helpful for the economy is what we are particularly interested in. So this is one serious liberalisation of foreign trade and a seriously reduced administration. What are you looking at? In that the deadlines for payment after export or import deadlines for advance payments were now 90 days. These deadlines extend to 180 days. Why is this important? Because a serious set of administrative procedures was necessary to be done in relation to the National Bank, relating to economic operators, to extend the deadlines for the payment of the exported goods or for the import of goods on paid foreign goods. Every time those deadlines were 30 days. Business entities that have serious foreign trade jobs in this way are given the opportunity to deal with what is the essence of their business, which is commercial bargaining and business treatment, not administration. What is also the news, which are extremely significant because of the continuing desire to have representatives of foreign companies registered as domestic legal entities as residents, to allow them equal legal status and equal business? These are two members who talk about the possibility of beating up to 1:1. There are a number of foreign companies that have branches here and have certain claims based on imports of goods into this market precisely from their own companies. As a result, this beating of claims is extremely significant and it also reduces administration. What's also a newspaper and what's allowed is an association in international transport. This is the possibility that a legal entity can pay, of course, on the basis of a credible documentation, and it knows what a credible transport document is, and the existence of a contract which clearly defines these relations to a third party. So if you owe the company X-Psyslon, and she has a relationship with another company, you can pay instead of that company to whoever she owes. Of course, all of this has a significant impact, as well as a member of the law that treats possible beatings, on the level of banking costs, because all such transactions are paid serious costs in payment traffic abroad. What is probably domestic exporters, and besides all other economic operators, to rejoice? That's the possibility of this way of funding through ransom claims. So that's what at this time of adoption of this law gives the exporters a serious momentum, first of all, to those who are extremely forced by this market, and these are the exporters of frozen fruit. I hope these times haven't been much affected and this serious export will be. It's something that will help them greatly, because it allows banks to sell everything they sell, and they need to charge within 90 days and more, they can in an arrangement with a domestic bank to sell practically their claim from legal entities abroad, from their commercial partners. So this is a very serious paper that this law makes. They will give a different environment in dealing with legal persons, with non-residents from abroad. They will contribute significantly to the creation of a climate where foreign investors will invest differently and more easily. I hope that, as well as the G17 plus MP group, you will support this law. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill and I urge everyone else to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27862	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27863	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot agree that this law is good. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the law. It is better than the previous, but far from being good and far away from him respecting all the rules we have on the market, both domestic and foreign. Some of the things that are in this contract simply cannot be acceptable to the SRS. First, in Article 4, there is a period of 180 days, which is extended. It means: "The resident of the means of payment based on the export of goods or services shall enter into the Republic within 180 days of the date of export customs duty of the goods, or from the date of delivery of the service". If that deadline is exceeded, it is considered a foreign credit transaction. The question arises whether the person exporting the goods is always able to collect within a certain period of time his claim. This is the problem why the bill itself did not leave the possibility that it would be impossible to do so under certain conditions and that it would be acceptable for it to be left with the competent court, not to be prosecuted, by the members of this law relating to the infringement procedure, Art. 59, 61, 62 and 63. A bill of this law. Furthermore, in Article 5, we are in a reverse situation: "The resident prepaid goods or import service to the Republic within 180 days of the day of payment of goods or services". Further: "A resident who does not import goods or services within the time limit laid down in Article 1 shall return the pre-paid amount immediately and no later than five days from the date of expiry of the period referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1. So if he doesn't import the goods, it's still considered a foreign credit deal. There are little certain market principles neglected. It's in the interest of anyone who deals with the trade to get the goods as much as possible. At times, this has been resolved in such a way that the benefit is obtained on the basis of the quantity and on the basis of the date of the creation of the debtor-trust relationship; it means whether the payment of the goods will be delayed, the payment of the goods in advance or the payment of the goods per receipt. If paying for the goods is per admission, it's not a dispute here. If payment is delayed, it is not disputed, that possibility is not even left by this law, that someone should import the goods, so pay it in 180 days. And that's possible. Or, pay up front. If payment is made in advance, of course, if everyone is in a financial position to pay as much goods as possible, they will get the goods at a better price. It is even going so far that individual importers are paying in a year, even two years in advance, amounts that the domestic market cannot, within a period of six months or a year, even if they are the only ones involved in this activity, accept for the amount. It's all done for the price. Leave it to the importer, if he deals with imports, to make that payment of the goods in accordance with his interests, that is his money, and thus to make some revenue based on the work he does. Furthermore, Article 6 states: "The resident - legal person can make the business of exporting goods and services extremely charge for the realised imports of goods and services, only under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Government". These are mutual beatings or business claims. So, in what way will the Government of the Republic of Serbia prescribe? Will it prescribe that this closure of the financial circle must be done exclusively with banks that are domestic or have their representatives in Serbia, or will it be left with the possibility of doing so abroad? This was about external trade costs, especially when it comes to bank costs. I agree that they are large, but unless they are left with freedom in a certain way, or this law is not prescribed in any way, it can be interpreted that the Government will adopt such a regulation and that only banks will benefit from it, that these goods which are subject to and imports and exports will be more expensive because of these banking costs. Furthermore, Article 6 in a certain way equates importers of goods and those engaged in external trade, which is also wrong. If someone solves or the government's decision is such that it's difficult to implement, he'll take out the goods, charge them, and return the money right next minute and pay for the goods he'll take out. That's how you leveled up people who deal with clean imports and people who deal with both imports and exports. I guess the goal of this government is, if we can't do everything in the foreign trade business to get back into the country as a foreign currency, then at least those companies that deal with imports, or export, and do it on the basis of reciprocity have at least a little more favourable conditions on the market. That's something to take care of. If you haven't already written that in law, write in those government decisions what it's going to look like. Furthermore, Article 8 says: "The resident cannot pay, pay or issue a payment order, or transfer to the non-resident, on the basis of a contract in which no actual price is stated or on the basis of untrue documents". I agree that there was an abuse in the earlier way of business between imports and exports, that certain prices were adjusted to look as low as possible, so that the importer would have a lower customs base in the customs procedure. However, who, and on the basis of which criteria, will carry out the assessment that the documents are credible and what is the price that is stated in the contract? We had the Foreign Trade Act where the parameters for such things were given, means that the price is more significant than the price that is in that country in their traffic. So there's a mechanism to solve it. I am quite surprised that, in this law itself, the Foreign Trade Act is not even with the Foreign Trade Act and is not compatible. It just proves in this case that in this government, which has all the ministries, every ministry works for itself, which, looking at as one whole, cannot possibly be good. Furthermore, in Article 23, residents - legal persons can grant non-residents financial loans from profits made by residents by operating abroad, provided that the non-resident - is debtor to the credit business of the majority resident. It's very interesting how you'll treat it, especially when it comes to the privatisation that's being conducted here. We have cases of a foreign company showing up, buying out a domestic legal person, now he's a resident, earning some profit in a foreign trade business, but that profit spills out at his home, not here, and I don't see why such an opportunity was left to abuse it. We have examples across Serbia, let's say in Pogorevc, the "Provelation" printing industry that simply disappeared and stopped doing business because the new owner simply made all the profits that the company had made in the country from where it came from, reduced income based on the profit tax and thus damaged not only the economy, but also the state, and you do nothing to deal with this problem, which is not alone, it comes to an end. Furthermore, Article 29(1) says: "The non-resident, as well as the resident -- the branch of a foreign legal entity operating through an unresident account is transferring from that account abroad, provided that it has previously reconciled the tax obligations of the transaction to the Republic. "This way in Article 29 has been overcome. In every possible way, you tried, even extremely rigorously, to collect certain fiscal obligations by doing certain restrictions, so you even went to the point where you couldn't register the car until you got confirmation that you had settled the tax obligations. I think this could've been better technically. How do you think you stop him from performing a certain financial transaction with an account that isn't domestic, on which basis, unless it's under the influence of the law itself, and I haven't noticed that if one of these abuses occurs, it's criminally sanctioned. Article 34 states: "Extremely from the provision of Article 2 of this Article, payment, charge and transfer of funds in the Republic can also be made in foreign exchanges based on... ". There is, in my opinion, the most interesting point 5) that says – based on sales and lending in the lease of immovable property. The Payment Law predicted that the only means of payment in the Republic was a dinar. Is this how you make it possible for the dinar to remain completely even on the market in the Republic? So someone can run that traffic in foreign exchanges. I understand in foreign exchanges what he's doing buying some real estate, but I can't understand the lease on real estate is being paid in foreign exchanges. Are you going to solve certain problems this way or are you going to put banks in a privileged position just when it comes to buying real estate? So the seller was given the opportunity to claim a fee in foreign exchanges. Of course, when he enters into any sales contract that the terms of the buyer will be paid in foreign exchanges, which means that the bank will lend in foreign exchanges. So far, it's been with the currency clause, and now it's been given the opportunity to place foreign currency funds. Since you control the banking system through the NBS, then why didn't you say that those interest rates used in the country would be used where the foreign exchanges came from? Why didn't you say so? Why didn't you protect the credit user from bank abuse? The lease is one service and each of us performs various services, there are various services on the market. Then allow every service to be paid in foreign exchanges, every purchase of every commodity, including real estate, mobile property to be charged in foreign exchanges. Why are you detaching something? The result of such behaviour is that the dinar is losing value and the question is how long will you succeed with these monetary measures applied by the National Bank, due to the external trade deficit, to keep it stable, and now you allow this kind of behaviour on the market. Who's gonna benefit the most from this? Only banks, possibly anyone who sells, but only banks. Credit users will be at greater damage than they are now. When it comes to Article 42, which prescribes a variety of restrictions, have you checked that these restrictions you have prescribed in Article 42 are in accordance with the rules laid down by the World Trade Organisation. Did you check that out? I agree that in certain situations, it is necessary to prevent an uncontrollable outflow of foreign exchanges from the state, to prevent an uncontrollable outflow of gold reserves from the state, but I cannot understand that you also want to prevent the entry of foreign money into the country, especially when it comes to the securities market of value. It will be in a more unfavourable position for importers or you will compromise the customs system because it can hypothetically, although I find it impossible as long as you are in power, to make such an inflow of foreign currency on the domestic market that you simply have to lower the course of the dinar, or the value of the exchange. You think you're gonna cause some kind of disturbance? Hardly. When it comes to Article 43, I think one of these options should have remained in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. Article 43 says that the NBS or the Government may introduce additional safeguard measures, if necessary, with the aim of imposing sanctions on UN organisations or other international organisations whose Republic of Serbia is a member, which these organisations are conducting towards other countries. I think there should still be a chance for the Serbian Parliament to declare this, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we were all witnesses of the sanctions that were carried out towards the SRJ then, and especially towards Serbia. We all felt the weight of these sanctions, we all know that sanctions hit the poorest layers of the population and that they did not give the expected political results as gentlemen from the West expected; they got it from you, not the sanctions, and even the consequences resulting from the introduction of these sanctions are much more difficult than the reasons that caused the imposition of sanctions. So, when it comes to this part of Article 43, it should only be in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament, not the executive authorities. Furthermore, when it comes to misdemeanor proceedings, there is also an administrative procedure conducted by the foreign exchange inspectorate, it does not respect the two-stage decision-making, and here you are calling on article 54 to make a complaint. But, let's say, in Article 52, when the foreign inspectorate brings a solution, so the appeal is not possible, the solution of Article 3 of this article is finally. It could be stated that the solution, regardless of the appeal made, was to enter into force, not to delay its execution. In Articles 57 and 58, we reintroduce criminal law in laws that are not dealt with. I hope there is a ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia that is in charge of the area of justice. When you pass one law, provide for criminal sanctions for that law, but insert them into the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. In parallel with criminal law, you put the courts in a position to be contrary to criminal laws with comparable criminal legislation, and in this way you put judgments on the torments that the law will apply. For example, from Article 58, this could be a classic scam, because it even provides for what amounts and criminal sanctions are much higher than in Article 58 and it goes from one to 15 years. So, you agree that part with Criminal Law, consult your colleagues from the Justice Department, and that's how you intend to do it, and that's that certain violations of the law are being prosecuted, but that's going to be in Criminal Law. It is not at all a problem for the Serbian Parliament to comply with the Criminal Law at each meeting with new laws that may have entered into force at the previous session.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27864	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted only one parliamentary group, which is the SRS. I give the word to Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft foreign exchange law came about as a result of the expert services of the Ministry of Finance, persons in charge of monitoring this issue and, of course, of what happened on 21 May in connection with a referendum in Montenegro to decide on their separation, i.e. independence, from the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Not to mention the issue, given that it is a pure falsification and a lack of democratically expressed will of citizens to separate this part of the common state, i.e. the Republic of Montenegro from the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. The foreign exchange law was passed after the Friday-October revolution in April 2002, as explained in this law. He regulates matter from this area in a different way than before. The solutions proposed in this bill can be better, are better than the solutions set out in the previous Foreign Exchange Act and should regulate matter, as set out in the bill itself, in this area that applies to the Republic of Serbia. Since new solutions have been created in the meantime, which are systemically related to foreign exchange operations, which are in other laws, you needed to regulate this matter in a comprehensive way by this law called the Foreign Exchange Act. Of course, this law, since it is functionally related to other laws, such as the Law on Foreign Trade, the Law on Securities of Values, the Law on Banks, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, needs to be functionally linked to the solutions provided for in those laws. It's a topic to deal with economists, people who deal with this problem and, of course, state bodies, institutions in this area. We SRS MPs in the National Assembly want to talk about this with different aspects, but not to go beyond the frameworks of the Foreign Exchange Law. Personally, given my intention, of course I still intend to talk about what I was already thinking about saying about the pay phone, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, came out of this room, since he has a different opinion, but we had a dispute once upon a time on this subject, right in this room and this pay phone. It is not disputed that there has been a suspension of the federal in an illegal, illegal way, and in this way legitimately by the National Assembly an attempt to pass a new foreign exchange law. It is said that this is a system law, that there is some newspaper, as the representative of the Serbian Government's proposal, that there are certain newspapers, that funds can be transferred to residents, that they can be executed, but after their collection, or settlement of obligations to the state, that criminal responsibility be imposed in foreign exchange operations following the control of the foreign inspectorate and a number of other newspapers provided for by this law. But what's the issue here? The fundamental issue, as with all other laws, is the implementation of the laws adopted in this National Assembly. Whether these solutions are respected, whether these laws are respected, is an essential issue in our legal system. A serious state and serious authority should, in particular, address this issue, and I believe that this authority, including Mr. Finance, cannot be more seriously addressed by this issue until the SRS comes to power and makes this state legal, law-abiding, law-abiding, law-abiding as it is passed. This law has some quality, but far from being a good law. It is that foreign trade is an important element of the financial transaction in the balance of payments. Where our country is now in the balance of payments on foreign trade, as far as we're at a deficit, because it's estimated that we're close to $5.5 billion in the foreign trade deficit. When we're going to reduce that deficit, when we're going to bring it to zero, without saying when we're going to go to that other extreme, or surplus, where we have more exports than we have imports in that business. It is particularly controversial for me as an SRS MP exactly the foreign exchange business of the NBJ, after which the NBS, since 2001, and why? I will provide you with a provision of Article 27 which also regulates the issue of foreign exchange deposits, or as is said in the title of this article – deposit transactions, that the bank, without restrictions, holds foreign exchanges and bank accounts abroad. I was just about to talk about this pay phone, tell you something, and let the finance minister be present and take part, deny what I say. We know that fair authority is much needed by this country. On the one hand, there is an increasing number of people who are without a basic existential survival option, and on the other side there is a smaller group of people, who are enormously rich, not on regular, legitimate jobs, but on the robbery of state property. One of the robberies of state property took place in connection with foreign exchange operations and deposit operations in 2002, when just the representative of the proposing under this proposal of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Finance Mr Mladjan Dinkic, without a decision of the then federal government, without a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Montenegro, made a deposit of foreign funds in the dollar portion of foreign currency funds into a bank then called "Veksim Bank", and later changed the name to "Euroaxis Bank", contrary to the standards of the International Bank for Accounting in Basel, which on two occasions warned both the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the then government in Belgrade that it is impossible and that this should not be done. The Euroaxis Bank later carried out commercial operations, and the International Bank for Accounting in Basel reacted. First, foreign bank deposits cannot be made if shareholders are domestic natural or legal persons. It's not a standard for that bank and it's not an international standard. In addition to the warning, just then the governor of NBJ Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was doing it. He worked because this bank formed a dozen legal entities from the country, including abroad. From abroad, we well-known Energy Financing Team or EFT Vuk Hamovic, a London company that was a shareholder, I guess, still is, Euroaxis Bank in Moscow. The second reason the bank reacted to an international account in Basel is that foreign foreign banks' foreign exchange and dinar reserves are unable to carry out commercial transactions, these things cannot be done. Despite the warning Mr. Mladjan Dinkic continued to hold foreign exchange funds, he continued to increase them in that bank; and not only the foreign currency, there was a considerable amount of dinar funds in this bank in Moscow. Of course, our country's foreign currency, our citizens under very risky arrangements, are still in commercial business with clients in Russia at interest rates from 13% to 15% a year. The Russian Federation central bank also provided the Belgrade authorities with information that part of the profits made from these commercial transactions at the expense of state foreign exchange funds, thanks to Mladjan Dinkic and via the EFT Vojin Lazarevic, is used to finance one member of the DOS then and now the ruling party. It's not for no reason. The financial arrangements at NBJ - "Veksim", or "Euroaxis Bank", London's Vuk Hamovic EFT and then and present party in power, were agreed in early 2003 at St. Stefan's. Of who benefited, which harm? Individuals benefited, Mladjan Dinkic and the party of the then DOS, the party now in power and now in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Who had any damage to this? The damage is always caused by citizens of Serbia, there is always a people, until the SRS comes to power, there will be people and citizens of Serbia damage. It is a difficult situation, because we are in a period of transition. A very risky and difficult situation for all countries found at such a time, including our Serbia. However, it would be much easier and better for the state, for the people and for all citizens of Serbia that everything that is about transition, about privatisation, which is a particular problem today, given that we have a bankruptcy mafia, fortunately part of the mafia is in prison and should be in prison... We have a lot of crime in both the traffic mob and the information mafia. It would be better not to pay attention to the creation of better and better quality living conditions for all citizens of Serbia, that what we share, not equally with regard to social demagogy, but not to steal, not to rob, not to rob Serbia's citizens, from the state. This is the essence of a story that you in power are not currently able to implement. On the contrary, you continue to rob and steal from this country and this people, and only with the arrival of the SRS will the freedom of the citizens of Serbia, we will free the citizens of Serbia from the fear of crime, from the tycoon, from the mobsters, from walking around Serbia Velimir Ilic and other ministers and false promises that this will do so, to build the roads of the highway, regional, Polish, forest and what I know about everything. One of the affairs known to Serbian citizens is the case affair. You know about the suitcase and the 100,000 euros. They are involved, according to the stories of those participants in the affair, and Radovan Jelasic, governor of the NBS, and vice governor and other officials of other parties. That's the one. A point has been put in, nothing is done, nothing is done, investigative authorities, judicial authorities are not pursuing the culprits, or at least we have no information that they are chasing the real culprits and that they are informing the public to see what is done on this matter. A particular problem, ladies and gentlemen, is in the foreign exchange business, which is the subject of this bill, as has been the formation of the National Savings Bank. The private National Savings Centre was formed, thanks to Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus, by state money. Same players in a similar story again. The same participants again, EFT again, Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic. This time the state was robbed not only for a large amount of funds, but for the assets of the former PDO, i.e. the Social Accounting Service, means equipment, a business space, whose part is now at the use of this encrypted G17 plus party, which is part of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The national savings facility, meanwhile, was sold to the EFG, Europeans from Greece. No one wonders whose property was sold. Honest people from the SRS are wondering, and not only are they, there are honest people still in Serbia who publicly expressed their views, experts in this area, in the area of economy and finance. All of us MPs should know, citizens should know that this is a matter of going into the past, in the history of a political party that has done a lot to this country and to the citizens of Serbia for the robbery of large funds, and that of state resources, both foreign and dinar. It is also said here in Article 57, which is referring to the introduction of criminal responsibility, that anyone buying from natural and legal persons, without the approval of the National Bank, is subject to criminal responsibility. I'm paraphrasing. Where's the criminal responsibility for government officials? Why isn't Mladjan Dinkic's criminal response to everything he's done in our country, where he has done enormous damage to both the state and the citizens of Serbia? It should, as in Article 60, in the case of criminal liability, say that if payments are not carried out via the NBS, so much will be punished that I do not read the amount. Of course they should, but do the citizens trust the NBS, the people who run the NBS, Radovan Jelasic, that Vice Governor Dusan Simic who was in custody? Is that what it's called, I didn't make a mistake? Dejan Simic, who was in custody for two or three months for the affair of the suitcase, is returning to a responsible place again, the head of the NBS. So how can the citizens of Serbia trust the state, the institutions, the state authorities, us politicians, how can the citizens of Serbia trust people who should lead this country honestly, in a fair manner, in accordance with the law, and they themselves rob the state and these citizens? So don't be surprised that the citizens of Serbia trust exactly the Serbian Radical Party. We're getting closer to that famous line, critical of you, where many, not all... I'm not saying that in the G17 plus or in the Democratic Yellow Party of Tadic, with tycoons Dragan Gilas and others, there are no honest people, there are, but when we talk about crime specifically – Mladjan Dinkic is a criminal, mobster, thief, Miroljub Labus too. When we speak specifically about crime, we speak specifically with names and last names. We don't generalize things, like you do. And it is no accident that many now in power have feared the arrival of the SRS to power, because we are approaching that critical point, or 50% of Serbia's citizens' confidence, that they will be in prison. And they're gonna be in jail, and they're supposed to be in jail, and that's where they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27866	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Let the MP Milos Disic be prepared. Don't forgive me, the Prophet of Radeta is the next People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27867	Dear People's MPs, here are the many expert laws of Minister Dinkic and his expert group, covered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today we have the draft foreign exchange law on the agenda. We can see from the reasons for this law that the reasons for its adoption, although the previous Foreign Exchange Act has been adopted and implemented since April 2002, because it is necessary to fulfil the obligations made by the adoption of Article 8. The Statute of the IMF. Speaking of the IMF here, there is no Minister Dinkic here to ask him the question of who is the successor of law in the IMF, whether it is Serbia, adequate to what has been said almost a month ago, since May 21st, or to listen to a second story back a few days that it is not only Serbia but Serbia-Montenegro. Will it be the same with the World Bank and with all other rights, adequate to what it says, and obligations in other financial organizations of the world? Another reason why it is now proposed to pass a new foreign exchange law is that the privatisation of most social enterprises has been made, so conditions have been created for an even greater liberalisation of payment flows and the payment of business abroad. Here, all it had to do was draw a line of robbery from most social enterprises through privatisation, and liberalisation is not exactly a term for foreign exchange operations to allegedly improve with these provisions of the law, as chaos and anarchy are also in the area. Former Finance Minister Djelic, who is now one of the directors of Meridian Bank, and then the governor of the NBJ said the minority dinar was already convertable in 2002. They have not achieved the convergence of dinars, the dinar loses from year to year, inflation is growing and higher, the catastrophic state of business, regardless of the data that are being provided. In particular, the disastrous business is related to the trade or payment deficits of the state and the people. From year to year, the payment deficit is increasing and now Serbia is unable to cover 50% of imports. But that is why the provisions of this law that are here are functionally related to the laws already passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Foreign Trade, the Law on Banks, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, as well as the Law on the Market of Securities of Values, should make up a single continent. The provisions of this law are in fact in a way as bad as these laws adopted, and are directed to contribute to further robbery or the influence of tycoons, rich people or the mafia and the area of foreign exchange. As a lawyer, I also believe that the SRS parliamentary group has always been about the fact that if there is a relation of the area that no more laws are passed than by the rule of assembling it in a minimum of laws, but the laws to be clear, precise, understandable and can be applied, both of those to which they apply, and especially to the bodies that need to implement it. The law that is now on the agenda includes the alleged provisions of the former Foreign Credit Act. At least the provisions of this law show credit operations with abroad, the gravity of these provisions is that the period of collection of claims after the export has been made has been extended or doubled from 90 to 180 days. Is it the interest of the Serbian state to double that deadline? Probably under pressure, as explained here, a businessman, and I said, "Who are these businessmen?" It is a very small number that effectively rule Serbia through the government of the Republic of Serbia and all the institutions of the Serbian state; now, they are likely to be intruding this 90-day deadline, simply to make it half a year. Another provision that is incomprehensible – allegedly in exceptional situations (but the exception in Serbia becomes a rule in all areas, including in this part), the government can allow the exporter to make compensation, not to charge the exports achieved, not to transfer the foreign currency to the country, but by importing it to compensate for what has been exported. Normally, raw materials will go from Serbia, what is cheap, and someone in the environment or in Europe needs to go, and everything and everything will be introduced into Serbia. And it will bring in that compensation to whoever is exporting a certain profit. Nothing by chance. The question arises, when the provisions of this law are looked at, in addition to these powers given to the Government to make extraordinary decisions, it gives consent, which is incomprehensible because I initially said that the law should be clear and precise, what is the role in implementing the Law of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, what is the role of governors. This is about criminal and criminal provisions. When we look at these criminal provisions, we see clearly, and all other provisions, to which they are somehow intended and to whom they should be contributed. Of these many members of criminal provisions, from Articles 57 to 66, you can see, in fact, when you look at Article 57 that if a person is caught or found trading effective foreign money or checks, the sentence of imprisonment is threatened from six months to five years, and that person will be punished for attempted execution. If we look at Article 58: "Whoever executes the payment, payment or issues a payment order, i.e. transfer the non-resident of the amount exceeding 100,000 euros, on the basis of a contract in which no real price is indicated or on the basis of untrue documents, will be punished for a criminal offence in prison from one to ten years," and will also be punished for trying. You see only in these two members what the difference in the severity of a really committed crime is, and almost no difference with a threatened sentence. Let's move on, take Article 59, where the violations are: a fine of 10,000 to a million dinars will be fined for the offence of a resident -- a legal person, a bank and a non-resident -- a legal person. Imagine the range of fines from 10,000 to million dinars, that's 100 times. It is a threat to those banks that were brought in after the destruction of four state banks on January 3rd 2002. All these banks that came here, or formed as the alleged daughters of the banks of European banks, the countries of the environment or Europe, for the violation of foreign currency business, can be punished by 10,000 dinars. It will also be a rule, 10, 20, 30 or 50, because the exchange inspectorate, the procedure will be conducted by order or by the patronate of the finance minister, G17 plus. All these banks in some way, along with the great engagement and former Deputy Prime Minister of Labus, Dinkic, Djelic, Vlahovic, were brought here to rob a poor country, a poor people with allegedly extremely good conditions and consumer credits and other loans, to deceive Serbian citizens and somehow rob them, in addition to this robbery that has been done so far through privatisation and bankruptcy of banks, as well as everything else that happens in the state of Serbia. The irresponsibility and indemnity of the applicant shall be shown in Article 68. No sublegal acts are needed now, they can be passed within three months, but so sublegal acts will apply. It is incomprehensible for one serious lawyer to apply sublegal acts of a law that ceases to apply, and they pass new laws, or a new law is proposed which is in fact to take effect eight days after publication. I didn't mention G17 plus for no reason, nor Minister Dinkic. What is related to this bill is also directly related to what happened in earlier years. I mentioned January 3, 2002, and the bankruptcy of four major banks. After the bankruptcy of the four large banks, some more banks in Serbia were destroyed. Those who conducted this, the Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks by July 2005, consisted of Vesna Djinic, the chairman of the Agency's Council, Mira Erić-Jovic, Zora Simović, Vesna Arsic, Mladjan Dinkic, Goran Angelic and Dejan Simic. Mr Dinkic, you know, was governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and Dejan Simic was then a member of the Agency's Council. After the adoption of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, the Agency’s Management Authority shall be the Management Board. The Governing Board was formed in 28.7.2005. Now the same council, i.e. the board of directors, is again composed of Vesna Djinic, Chairman of the Management Board, Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Business and Privatisation Mladjan Dinkic, Vesna Arsic, Mira Eric-Jovic, Evica Zdravkovic and Dejan Simic, was then the vice governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. All Serbian citizens heard about the suitcase affair. Here's what's supposed to say today is that the case wasn't cut, the case was real and the charges were filed. Now I'm going to give you just a little detail on the report from the Deposit Insurance Agency for 2005 on the work of this agency. I will put the burden on these four large banks: Jugobanke, Investbanke, Beobanka, Slavija Banka, although I have here for the Borska Banka and the JIK Banka. Unfortunately, from January 3rd 2002 until this report was drawn up, almost nothing was done, which was required to be done according to all the positive regulations, to implement this bankruptcy and bring it to an end. Looking at the report, the bankruptcy is at the beginning, because in one part it is said that the biggest claims of four of these banks have just begun the review process. Imagine when it's listed and written by the ones I've counted here, who run this Deposit Insurance Agency, the former Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation, that only now begin the process of the largest claims of four major banks to investigate. The point is, in addition to what they have achieved to destroy four major state banks, to go into the privatisation process, to rob Serbia, Serbia's citizens and Serbia's workers, to take huge assets, both in money and foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts, without transparency, as you like to say, and I never use such an expression without the public, without the right way to return that money to Serbia's citizens. It was not enough that foreign exchanges were taken from the Eksim Bank account from Moscow, from the agency's account and from the South Bank of New York, from the account of the Mešovite Yugoslav-London Bank in London, from the account of the Yugoslav-French Bank in Paris, etc. It's hundreds of millions of dollars. What happened to the huge business space outside Serbia, with the business space these banks had in BiH, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia? What happened to the business space these banks had in Europe, Moscow, New York? Nowhere in the records of this business space is there, but that's why 57,711 square meters of these banks' business space has already been sold, apart from the fact that the entire mobile property, art paintings, vehicles, all the moving inventory, tables, chairs, computers and all the techniques have been developed. 57,711 square meters sold for 1,133,32,000. When this is calculated roughly, it's just over 100 euros per square. Do you know, and you know, that the business premises of these banks, starting with downtown Belgrade, across Serbia, are in the most exclusive areas? The second fact, as they were built, was that they were entrailed, that they were given into such indifference, or bowing. Do you know who they were donated to? They were given, as a rule, to these banks that came to "happiness" Serbian citizens. I'm not going to name it individually, but they're all the same as usual. Where is the responsibility of the Trade Court in Belgrade, which, in fact, conducts bankruptcy proceedings for these four banks? Is this now a picture of what was happening and what may still be happening in the Trade Court in Belgrade, next to that bankruptcy mafia that has already been detained, and this is the part that belongs to the bankruptcy process. As MPs of the SRS, when it comes to truth, justice, harsh violation of the law, looting of workers, citizens, peasants, we will never get past it and we have never crossed it. Looking at the provisions of this law, I only spoke of them in general, it is the same to close one circle, that those who have already robbed Serbia, and not many of them, continue to rob, that this poor people, who are extremely hard to live, see them in debauchery or squinting in the streets or in closed restaurants. Unfortunately, the means of information, which is particularly difficult for me as a man and a national MP, and this public service gives such a place to try to keep this people busy. Serbian citizens are already aware, they felt bitterly on their skin that this is no longer possible, and in a month, the SRS, in an extraordinary local election, will take over this Serbia, because Serbia has to be saved. This is a question of survival and the salvation of Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27868	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27869	Mr. Chairman, the last two speakers were injured by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you, in the last attitude, he says, "It's not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to bring out facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons." But what characterizes SRS members in the larger number is that they keep talking about their honesty and other people's thieving, and the fact is that many of them, in fact, hide themselves from the persecution of courts. It is also a fact that there is no court case against any G17 Plus minister and that no G17 Plus MP has ever called for immunity. Don't bend the truth. Also, the fact is that the result of the policy led by the Serbian Radical Party, which Serbian citizens know, is wars, poverty and misery. On the other hand, what's the score for them? The result is that they have become extremely rich and have afforded themselves beautiful apartments, beautiful cars and beautiful incomes, and Serbian citizens what I have already told you. It is also a fact that they too had ministers in the government of Mirko Marjanovic. One of the most prominent is Mr. Todorovic. He is also very prominent in numerous affairs. I want to give the facts now. The second municipal prosecutor's office is chasing him on suspicion that he damaged the state budget for 26.5 million dinars at the time, when he was a minister, as he used funds for regular and safe operation of railway traffic to purchase ten personnel. We know what's going on with the railroad. In doing so, Dragan Todorovic and his comrades ate and drank about the state's cost, imagine almost 11 million dinars at Želturs' catering facilities. At today's prices, it's 9,000 lunches at the bar. So, Dragan Todorovic, at today's prices, hosted an average of 30 people a day, including weekends over the year. What are you talking about? Shame on you. Of course, you will continue to tell those lies after me, but I hope the citizens of Serbia can tell what is a lie, what is true, and that they will not buy these cheap stories and cheap provocations about how the radical party cares about them. They only care about themselves and talk about themselves as if they were the most honest, and you know who talks about honesty the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27870	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27871	It's terrible when young people, and as far as I know, a fellow MP named Homan is a graduate lawyer by profession... You mentioned here, among other things, honesty - dishonesty, truth - false. I've been in law enforcement for 30 years. At the "yellow house" in 1968, I started studying here in Belgrade, 1973, at Law School. Looking at everything that was happening, as it is now happening, let me ask you, my colleague, when Mr. Todorovic was the minister of traffic, when you took power with you, was that October 5, 2000 and how long has it been since that time? If he has the basis of this Second District Attorney's Office, why didn't he file a case, why didn't he hand it over to the investigating judge, why did the Criminally Greater Second Municipal Court, if it had any grounds to press charges, didn't take the case? That's what it's all about, buddy. After six years of being called on to file a criminal report? What does it mean – criminal charges have been filed? That's the basic right, especially in criminal law. It is for the launch of some pre-crisis procedures, but what do we do next? Why didn't it go all the way? The point for the present time is why criminal charges are not filed, and even if someone submits a criminal report, the application stands in a drawer or in Serbia's MUP or in the municipal, county, even with a republican prosecutor. It's terrible that this is happening in the present time. Thus, at the end of six years, it is evident that there is no basis there, that it was your attempt after October 5th to literally put all political opponents in prison. I'm not gonna talk about myself for this pay phone, whether I'm honest or unfair. Let those with whom I have lived, now live, with whom I have worked and worked, with whom I have met for 30 years in the King in responsible places in the municipal administration and in the Yugoslavs of the King.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27872	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Homan, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27873	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I'm not very well interpreted. I have to say here what I forgot, which is that, of course, there is no criminal procedure when you call for immunity, not you, but Mr. Todorovic, the one I was talking about. From then on, to this day under immunity, there was nothing that could have happened to the court. I expect you to re-enter it among the MPs, because now there is no immunity, to protect it, and that it will last and last, so that man can escape justice. I don't want to talk about rumors, these are facts. I don't want to talk about rumors that there's a rumor that at the time of the royal banks' inflation, you took short-term loans, so you gave them back when they were eaten by inflation. That's what they say, but I don't believe it, so I don't want to talk about it, and these are the facts. Be assured that something would have been done if it hadn't been for immunity, and be sure, if there was something, the Serbian Radical Party would have gathered nicely and presented some evidence, not just saying that this mobster, this thief, and that he came down from this pay phone. Give me some proof.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27874	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mikhailovich, I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure because you are a correct man, but I will draw your attention that this speaker (because he says so and doesn't know what the MPs are called, then I don't know who he is) hurt Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he said we would insert here among MPs Dragan Todorovic. It is indeed an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. We Serbian radicals don't throw anyone in, we go to the polls nicely, and we win the largest number of votes in the election, and then we choose the MPs from our list according to the criteria of the Serbian Radical Party. As far as immunity is concerned, thanks to the good work and your policy of Montenegro apart, there is no longer a SCG assembly, Dragan Todorovic was there, no longer, so go ahead, Mr. Homan, I just don't know if the various prosecutors around Belgrade will have time to deal with your insinuations, since they are covered with criminal charges against Labus, Dinkic, Jelasic, Davinic; sugar affair, Ericson, "Knjiz", it's about Labus, then Sartid. For Dinkic, the National Savings Office, a contract where he damaged six billion euros from the National Bank, or the Republic because of a contract to rent a huge area of space, given TV B92; and those famous money from Cyprus, I will talk about it when I speak of this law, because this law proposes how to protect the state money from Cyprus that he hid there. Then, Jelasic's villa, Jelasic's adviser, and I don't know who will advise him after we read today that a criminal report is finally being filed, who will now advise this coward Jelasic. Someone here said it was 100,000 euros in that suitcase. It is just one piece of two million euros that Jelasic and the gang stole from that environment. Then Davinic, affair vest, satellite. Since you in the congregation majority have brought such a restrictive Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that we in our parliamentary group, of course, as well as other parliamentary groups, have a certain time when we can address the MPs, I must no longer talk about your affairs, because I will spend an hour and a half which is foreseen for the parliamentary group to talk about this law. There will be time, we keep stressing that we are not threatening political opponents, but we are threatening thieves and criminals. The government is preceded by party representatives whose member it is, I don't know if the president of any wings, Mladjan Dinkic. As for hiding behind immunity, ask the courts how Mladjan Dinkic ignores courts, how he ignores the Supreme Court decisions, of course publicly, how he ignores calls to court and says he will appear in court one day when he is no longer a minister, because he now has more to do than go along with various criminal charges that exist against him in courts. Here is Dinkic, when he spoke about the proposals of these two laws, happily said that this is the only law he proposes, a proposal for a law on foreign exchange business, and that there is no amendment by the MPs. He thought that, behold, he suddenly became smart so he did a good law or maybe he thought that we Serbian radicals were tired of our parliamentary struggle. Of course we are not, we are tireless and we have submitted to this law a number of amendments, as well as all the bad laws that we receive from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These days we are further engaged, so there are few MPs in parliament, because a number of MPs are actively participating in our candidate candidate for the President of the Municipality of Razanj, our candidate for the President of the Municipality of Bujanovac; and several teams are involved in the promotions of Prof. Vojislav Seselj's book. We are doing this promotion in all the cities of Serbia and in all the cities of Republika Srpska. These days, local congregations are municipalities, so the MPs of the SRS do their jobs that way. I would be pleased to have the President of the Assembly here, who very often wishes to tell the public of Serbia why this hall is empty -- as it is here today, to count quickly, eight MPs from the assembly majority, of course three times more SRS MPs -- says that not the MPs, and so did the Rules of Procedure, to sit in this hall, have already been hired to work on assembly committees. Today I see comments in the paper, as we Serbian radicals no longer participate in the work of the Assembly committees, suddenly you say that committees are no longer important, that you can work without committees, that you can discuss and decide without the opinion of the committees in charge. It would be good to decide what is the right attitude of you who still call yourselves the congregation majority. I will take the opportunity to say why the MPs of the SRS no longer participate in the work of the Assembly committees, except for the Constitutional Affairs Committee, if any, since eight months have not been scheduled, so it was scheduled the other day and now experts from various parliamentary groups are waiting. Of course, Serbian radicals will not hire any experts. The members of that committee are enough experts to be able to work on the constitution. Of course, you don't even know what the constitution is, because if you knew, you would certainly react as a lawyer and draw attention to Vojislav Kostunica and to the public of Serbia that Vojislav Kostunica had carried out a coup because he had extended his life span, in a political and working sense, to former ministers Vuk Draskovic and Stankovic. Of course, it all happens in front of the public and we Serbian radicals will keep it public. Indeed, there is much more, in which the most harsh violation of the Constitution of Serbia, as the Constitutional Charter was previously violated, so the Constitution of the SRJ, but that is not the subject, is the subject of these two Youth Laws. In the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments, we have only one member here, that is, this other member who says when it comes into force. We have proposed here, because we really don't mind changing the law this way as planned, that the provisions of this law relating to legal persons apply to the branches of foreign companies established in accordance with the law governing the establishment of societies and that should really be regulated. If the law had already changed, if it hadn't happened every day and the National Assembly hadn't wasted any time changing and supplementing some laws, then it was really good, and I expect... In fact, I don't expect Minister Dinkic to come out here, say what he has to say and leave this room and thus try to show that he is very important, that he ignores the National Assembly. That is true, but being able to treat Vojislav Kostunica, that is the problem with Vojislav Kostunica, but in the National Assembly he will have to hear what he does not want to hear, the public of Serbia will hear it. So, I hope that colleagues in the voting day will have the understanding and that they will accept these two suggestions from the MPs of the SRS, Zoran Krasic and Zoran Antić, because by intervention in this bill, we have specified the regulation of the circumstances when the debtor's bank can reject the order to pay the debtor, when a judicial or administrative dispute is being conducted against him. It is simply necessary for this law to be applied properly. We also intervened on Article 47 in order to remove illogicalities, so that in the event of forced collection it could not be a more important administrative dispute, but a court ruling or a solution. So, we will speak, of course, in detail about both of these amendments, but since Mladjan Dinkic mentioned this law in one sentence, I have deliberately spoken a little bit more to show that the laws are not formality, that they have to be seriously done and that it is not enough for Dinkic or some other minister to come out here and present to us some of his proposals as something that is epic, as Dinkic did today with this law. Now he invented hot water, now we've got something we've never heard or seen before, all of us stupid, and he's smart and we had no idea that foreign business should be regulated by law at all. But he didn't say what the point was. This bill, my dear colleagues, is not for the people, but for Dinkic's foreign banks that he and Labus brought here. I don't know if one law can be found so far where Serbian citizens will feel better, because we are constantly warning that the government exists to work for its people and for citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. We have concrete objections to the draft foreign exchange law and I will present some of them in principle debate. Of course, the amendments will be discussed during this second part of the debate. The first intervention is in the first position of Article 4, in order to be precise. So, you'll see from all our remarks that it wasn't our intention to obstruct either government or minister in any way, but that we were really seriously and professionally intervened under this bill. I am sorry that a colleague who has spoken to the Rules of Procedure here now, as he is very often in public these days, as well as other colleagues from this encrypted organization, tells how MPs of the SRS are obstructing the work of the Assembly because they submit amendments, including the amendment to delete each member of the bill. Even a co-worker on this side said on a TV show that this parliament would be much more effective if it weren't for the Serbian Radical Party's amendment. It is truly outrageous that someone is asking opposition party MPs not to submit amendments. I was really expecting, as she was envied by this colleague, that she would say it's terrible that someone was even acting like an opposition, because I'm surprised that you didn't predict to the Rules of Procedure that all MPs had to vote the way the government suggested. I have said this to draw attention to these amendments, which I am telling you, have been done very professionally, well-intentioned and specify in their own way this government proposal, so let me see how the government representative will react, who has escaped, because where he would be here to look with us and listen to what we have to say to him, but also to see how the majority of the assembly react in the day to vote. Then you will show whether you care if the legal state really lives in Serbia or by voting for this law you will support the coup and coup that is at work in Serbia, as your contribution not to want the rule of law, that you do not care about legal certainty, because that is how you have been acting since the very beginning. And what is happening these days is the highlight of breaking all possible regulations, and above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, in Article 4, in the first place, we said that the resident of the payment means was made on the basis of exports of paid goods or services, etc., because you left out in the proposal that the funds achieved and the payment of goods and services were achieved and it is completely incorrect if you say – the resident of the means of payment based on the export of goods or services to the Republic, etc. It does not appear anywhere that these are some of the funds achieved and that they are paying for goods and services, therefore, that the funds are imported into the Republic only if they are actually charged. That's the essence of our intervention. What you write, and you don't make any commitment that these funds are really charged, then it's just a distraction of the public and those to whom this law applies. We intervened in Article 5 because we think it is necessary for the law to provide that the resident can exercise his rights through court. It's amazing that you ignored the fact that very often in practice contracts can't be realised, and you didn't leave the possibility of what happens if the contract doesn't work out. Therefore, it must be made clear, that it stands in this proposal, tomorrow in the law, that the resident has the right to judicial protection and to judicial termination of the contract. There are general rules, but you are here and you have introduced too many general rules, which are not necessary, and I will say which are them, and those that are necessary, I'm afraid are deliberately abandoned, to get time and to lose deadlines. You know, although the lack of knowledge of rights does not excuse, it is one of the legal rules, it must be acknowledged that if something strictly does not stand in the law, it may happen that someone is missing some legal deadline from another regulation that this and all other laws are based on or should be so. In Article 6, you predicted that a resident - a legal person can make the business of exporting goods and services extremely charge for the realized import of goods and services only on condition and in the manner prescribed by the Government. We really don't know why only in the manner and conditions prescribed by the government. Why can't it be signed by a contract? Of course, to keep the contract in line with this law and the other laws that apply in the Republic of Serbia. This would encourage the export of domestic goods without direct interference, this way, the Republic of Serbia. You're telling one story... When I say you and I look at you, I just have to, instead of Young Dinkic, talk to you, and I suppose you'll pass it on to him. The story and Dinkic and other members of the government will do everything and do everything to encourage exports, and then propose a law where the government will interfere to such an extent that neither a contract beyond the government can be concluded beyond government regulations. It is necessary to delete Article 8 of the Proposal for this Act, because the price of goods and services implies the interest of the parties, and not as you provided that the resident cannot pay, pay or issue a payment order, or carry out a transfer to the non-resident on the basis of a contract in which the actual price is not indicated or on the basis of untrue documents. This is just so inaccurate and it has to be erased. Article 23 must also be deleted, as this member provided for 23 and left the possibility of the export funds remaining abroad for longer, and this should not be the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, the goal should be to get those funds back to Serbia as soon as possible. A second position of Article 25 must be deleted, which says the bank can grant a resident - a natural person a loan in foreign exchanges to buy real estate in the country. This is one of the evidence that this is a law for these various foreign banks that Dinkic has brought to Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume you know that nothing can be paid by foreign exchanges in Serbia. So, no sales contracts, no payment of goods, no payment of services. Then why are you legally predicting that a bank can lend loans in euro? You make people take loans in euros, turn them into dinars, lose them on that course, pay prices or services in euros. So this just can't, we don't have us in our monetary system, we only have the money. This cannot remain in this law, as Article 27 must be deleted in order to prevent the outflow of foreign foreign exchange funds, because you have provided that the bank without restrictions keeps foreign exchanges on foreign banks' accounts. The residents can keep foreign bank foreign exchanges on account under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the National Bank. This Article 27. Dinkic wrote for himself, so that according to the law, he would remove those money from Cyprus, the state, which he went to in his own time, and then move it somewhere. In Article 34(4), points 1), (4) and (5) must be deleted for the same reasons as we said that Article 25 must be deleted, as it also speaks of foreign exchange payments. That, therefore, cannot be done in Serbia. The other day we had the law that our ID cards had to be written in English. Today we have foreign exchange business that we have to take loans in foreign exchanges. Aman, guys, this is Serbia. Put it in your head. In Article 35, it's very interesting, in point 2, the resident says, "The legal person and the entrepreneur keep foreign currency in the foreign exchange account at the bank or sell them to that bank. "Why this bank? Why can't he go to another bank? Why is it that we, by law, limit someone in which bank they sell their foreign exchanges? Unbelievable. It can't be, it's nothing funny, ma'am, this can't stand in the law like this. As you do not benefit from this third position of Article 41, this is what you predicted, and we have intervened with the amendment to prevent the abuses of Governor Jelasic and Minister Dinkic. Even if it weren't for Governor Jelasic and Minister Dinkic, people proven criminals, if they were honest, honorable people in those places, we would not have allowed such a member to pass: "For the calculation of customs duties and other import duties, official duties are applied", imagine, "the average rate of the dinar established on the last working day of the week preceding the week in which the amount of customs duties and other import duties is determined" etc. Jelasic can read exactly how he fits and how he fits the tycoons with which Dinkic and he operate. This, gentlemen, can't do this, must determine the average rate of the week in which the amount of customs duty is determined, and then there's no furniture, but it's for everyone. In Article 42(1), points 3), 8 and 10 should be deleted in order to avoid long-term consequences in the areas of investment in the country and exports of goods and services. I don't have time to read all these points right now, but of course we will when we talk about details. That's why Article 43 has to be deleted. You say, "The National Bank of Serbia or the Government can introduce additional safeguard measures, if necessary", this is terrible, "with the aim of implementing sanctions on the UN or other international organisations whose Republic of Serbia, which these organisations are implementing towards other countries. "The Republic of Serbia, the people of the Republic of Serbia had sanctions and we all remember that time of sanctions and where the morals of the government of the Republic of Serbia propose to this assembly that we be a country that will impose sanctions on another people. You well know which layers of the population are affected – the poorest, and we should be a U.S. satellite and predict in our law that if a country introduces sanctions faster and better to join those sanctions. This, my dear colleagues, is scandalous. It must be changed in Article 52 fourth position. "The decision of the 3rd member's position is final," says the bill. We've had this in some other draft laws, and I really don't know who's so smart that he can think of some laws that change general rules and principles from economic, foreign, foreign areas and break the principle of two-stage decision-making. I don't think one lawyer in this room will be against this intervention. It's really impossible for any foreign business, administratively in this case, to end without two-stage decision-making. In the 57th and 58th members, and counterpart Veroljub Arsic talked about it, this has also been seen in government proposals, we have some new crimes. Minister Stojkovic comes to us and boasts in public that we have codified criminal legislation, all the crimes covered by one law, that's how it should be. But, of course, that's not the case with us. Now, when that Code of Criminals was passed, instead of having a nice move and predicting... You had all these laws, because this wasn't your handiwork, you just translated this and knocked on by those who forced it on you. It was then necessary before the Criminal Code was worked that the fines first of all of the proposals you received were translated and that you see all the crimes imposed on you and that these crimes were then well contained in the Criminal Code. But since you didn't do it, then it's much better for us to fill out the Code of Criminals here at every session than to have in every law some new criminal act. That's not good, and this can't stay. In article 59, you're talking about violations. Again, we have a principled remark: a fine of 10,000 to a million dinars, leaving the possibility of abuse again. Who's going to judge whether someone should be punished with 10,000, someone with a million and someone with 500,000 that's between them? So our principled view is that it is inadmissible, such as the principled position of the SRS that all the penalties you impose are too harsh, that you have to make sure that many poor people live in Serbia and that, regardless of the need for the Government to fill the budget, you do not need this in this way to impose such high penalties on them. But we're not going to talk about it, you're the government, you're going to answer to the citizens in the elections, you're going to explain why and how much you've eaten in some of your actions, but we need to intervene in Article 59 in item 1 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 28), 28) and 29) because it's already regulated by other laws, I don't know, the Investment Funds Act, the securities market of value, the takeover of stock companies, etc. So there's no need to repeat something you've already regulated. As in Article 59(1), point 65, you said you would punish, again from 10,000 to millions of dinars, for the violation of the resident if, among other things, you did not hold foreign exchanges at the bank or sell them to that bank. This "he" thing, according to what I was saying about Article 35, has absolutely got to be erased. You see, interestingly, the violation of Article 60 – a fine of 500 to 50,000 dinars will punish the responsible person in the state body and organisation, among other things, if the foreign exchange accounts are not held by the NBS. So Mladjan Dinkic is setting himself up again, one of the inspectors is going to give him a fine of 500 dinars because the foreign currency he stole in Cyprus is not held in the National Bank, but on some exotic island. Well, that's nice. They are also subject to some other laws and should not be in this law, as well as point 34) in this section, which says – if they do not hold foreign exchanges or sell them to the bank. So that's what we were already saying. Finally, Article 68 – Rules for the enforcement of this law will be passed no later than six months. It's in the bill. The SRS proposal, our parliamentary groups, is to make it three months. Because it is truly amazing, and this is not the first time that the Government has offered us a law to discuss and adopt it by emergency procedure, so urgently, it stands in reason, if the law is not urgently passed, then the Government sets itself a time limit of six months, such a laziness. If this is so urgent and if this is a law that needs to be passed by emergency procedure, then the government must have prepared all sublaws and the moment when the majority of parliament votes the law, when the law appears in the "Official Messenger" that the government also appears with sublaws. So, it also speaks of the irresponsibility and irresponsibility of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and of the people of the congregation, since there are only six people who are willing to vote in favour of this law, and I would like at least one of them to say what the essence of this law is. Of course, we Serbian radicals know this isn't a good law and that's why we won't vote for it. We also call on serious people who are not from our parliamentary group, who are in this House, not to vote in favour of this law. This is the law for Mladjan Dinkic, for Radovan Jelasic and for their foreign banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27876	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Disic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27877	The Honorable chairman, MPs, citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of the foreign exchange law. At the beginning, I should say that this law is not and will not be good for the citizens of India, except for those banks that it has brought to these premises, Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Labus. This law is not good, it is not accurate and there will be no success in its application. The SRS spoke about the law itself. I don't want to say too much what they said, not to repeat ourselves, but the point of all this is that the law is clearly not good. The law shows that the ministries do not co-operate with each other and that the government has great problems making a law in accordance with several ministries, and that it is good and applicable in these areas. This is best seen from Articles 43, 57 and 58 and those points from the criminal provisions that Mrs. Verica Radeta has now listed to you here. This means that the law is absolutely not good and the SRS will not vote for this law. As for Mladjan Dinkic, who wrote this law, I know this law will not be good. When it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, he showed all his abilities and virtues from both this pay phone and work. I have to turn around, I asked Mladjan Dinkic to apologize first to the citizens of Serbia, and especially to the citizens of India for what he did. Here I have some evidence against Mladjan Dinkic and his banking in India with Mr. Goran Jesic, whom he praised so nicely from this pay phone that the Indji municipality is above all other local self-government for 20 years, imagine. I didn't know what reason to praise him so well, and I, who come from India, know that there are no new jobs, that it's a lie by Mr. Goran Jesic that investments in the Indji municipality are about 300m euros, and that, believe me, there is no Republic of Serbia, that everything he has done has done well, that he has destroyed companies and public utility facilities so that the strict center of Indjia sells to the "Merkator" for nine euros per square metre, and now there's nothing. I called on the Republic of Serbia's budgetary inspection to go and check the budget of the Indji municipality. But in order not to go over what I was about to say, I would ask that the cameras zoom in on this meal and drink of Minister Dulic, I don't know exactly what it's called, Mr Jesic and Dinkic. Here in this photograph you can see everything. You can't even see how many different drinks there are, how many bottles are on the table, and especially how they look at each other. They really "crossed their eyes" and I can see from there why he praised Mr. Jesic, because he really wasn't able to judge himself. Here, Mr. Homan, although I don't see him, all the headlines about Mr. Dinkic. Dear gentlemen, this is not what the radicals wrote. This was written by someone with documentation, pictures of Mr Dinkic, someone who has knowledge of what Mr Dinkic is doing, and Serbian radicals only present and publish it to the people and citizens of Serbia, so that Serbian radicals really have nothing to do with Mr Dinkic's dirty actions. I want to introduce Mr Dinkic to the business of Indjia and such an advanced and high-ranking Mr. President of the Municipality of Goran Jesic. In my hands is the information that came from a respected ministry back then, and that ministry with that minister and today lives in this government. It says exactly here, an item per item, covered with documents, what Mr Jesic was doing from 2000 to today. I'll be on my way very shortly, because there are some other MPs here who have come forward, and I won't take up too much of their time. It is said that the construction of a regional sewerage -- a capital investment costing 89 million dinars. We have debts from this capital investment, and now the Trade Court in Sremska Mitrovica has reached an executive verdict due to an 84m debt to the Belgrade Road Building Engineering. Look at the wonders, the Trade Court delivers this verdict, and Mladjan Dinkic, thanks to this evening and this beautiful drink and the party with Goran Jesic, invited the President of the Municipal Court in Indjija and they put aside the verdict and unblocked the account of "water and sewerage" in India. These days, the Belgrade Trade Court has reached a solution that annuls and reblocks the "water and sewerage" account, just to show you what the Trade Court has done, and the major judge of the Indjia Municipal Court is again blocking the accounts. If this is debt, this job was done in 1993, and the first court dispute came in 1997, with a value of 500,000 marks, or about three million dinars at the time, the debt came out after four years to 74 million. What they wanted - to unblock the account, to pay some more money for this debt, so that the citizens of India would pay these debts over the next 10 years. Fortunately, there are also reasonable judges today in Serbia, which surprised us, so they acted according to the executive verdict, so they blocked again. Here I am not calling for the destruction of the Public Communal Company Water and sewerage, which is what the citizens of India need. Everywhere there are such companies in Serbia should be supported. But this is about Mr Dinkic's arrogant behavior and the president of the municipality, who wanted to and wanted to destroy this company, they dragged him into debt. That's not all. According to the same company, debts are even bigger. From this period for the main reservoir, the company Water and sewerage is in debt of 1,240,000 euros, and the verdict will arrive these days. I'm telling you to see how it works in the Indjia municipality and what Mladjan Dinkic is saying from this pay phone means that he has absolutely deceived the citizens of Serbia, and the people of Indjia cannot, because the people of Indjia know well what is done and what is not. I'll read you from this information, since this came from one ministry, what was actually done. "Departing from the legal nature of the solution as an individual legal act in the sense in which the solution must be explicitly identified," and regarding this information on regional sewerage, as a tendering commission was designed to decide who would get a job from the bidders who applied for this capital investment. It is further said: "The persons appointed as members of this committee may be considered incorrectly to adopt this solution without identifying the names of certain members of this committee, such as representatives of the committee groups in the Indji Municipality Assembly, certain public enterprises and local communities." For the first time, and let one of the lawyers here help me, whether one commission can read "a solution to the education and appointment of a commission to build a regional sewerage -- a commission to build a regional sewerage is being educated and it is being called: the president of the Indji Municipality for President". I'm asking the lawyers to tell me if the names of a person or a function should stand here. This is a big investment, a construction investment, and they need to be professional, educated persons from certain areas. Two are said to be the president of the Indji municipality's Executive Board for Vice-President. These are the members of the commission who made this investment, where now Indjia pays 74 million instead of three million. Three are said to be the head of the municipal and housing department and environmental protection, for a member. Under four - Head of the Department of Business and Finance, for a member. Under five -- a representative of the Public Enterprise for Building Land and Communal Action and Roads of Indji, a member. Could have been someone who cleans the streets out there just to get on this committee. Under six, it is round here, I don't know for what reasons – the president of the public utility "water and sewerage" Indji, for a member, the president of the local community, for a member. It's a political function, the president of the local community can be both a porter and a shepherd from a mountain, it doesn't matter, I won't humiliate, but this is about professional faces. Under eight -- president of the DOS parliamentary group in the Indji Municipality Assembly, for a member. Under nine -- chairman of the Indji municipality's SPS parliamentary group. Under 10 -- chairman of the DSS parliamentary group in the Indji municipality since they were outside the DOS at the time. Under eleven - representative of the JUL parliamentary group of those times. Under 12 – Representative of the League of Social League Group Vojvodina in the Indji Municipality. The signer is the unhappy Goran Jesic. But that's not all. There is much here, and it would really take me two days to read all of this nicely and to assure you that it is done in India and that it is blessed by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. It is further said: the reconstruction of the Falcon Home in India. It's not the Sokol House, it's a cinema hall that spends 45 million dinars, and there's still business with 13 or 14 million debts that they're looking for, so it's not 45 million anymore. The very investment in the tender went through with 15 million dinars. It was supposed to be from donor funds. There was an ADF association, one of the NGOs, the financials are from America, which doesn't matter, they were supposed to get into this investment, and they ended up getting away with 70 or 80 percent of this amount to pay. I'll tell you again about the commission. The tender opened in 5.6.2002. The initial price of investment is 15 million, and it ended up at 45 million. I'm familiar with the Indji municipality's public prosecutor that UBPOK has knowledge that Mr. Jesic transferred six million dinars through an Indija firm to buy his brother's apartment in Novi Sad; his brother is also known to this government, that's the unfortunate one Velja Ilic wanted to kill, or to beat up on some TV show, you saw that picture, she was circulating, that was at the time you attacked Velja Ilic. I will read to you: "On 7 June 2002, the Executive Board, with its conclusion, number 5-6-42/2002-1, accepted the project task and appointed committee for the implementation of the project task in reconstruction, adaptation and addition of Sokolski dom in Indjija, composed of: Goran Jesic, President of the Commission and members of Vasić Dimitrije, member of the Executive Board, responsible for the budget of the municipality, Tišma Gordan, Head of the Department of Finance of the Municipal Administration, Petrinović Nenad, member of the Executive Board in charge of sport. The same conclusion also defined the task of the Commission itself, which consists of, among other things, implementing the process of building project-technical documentation, creating a tender, calling for a competition, establishing the most favourable performer and proposing it to the Executive Board." I'm not gonna read that. "However, when the project task was adopted by the Executive Board, the final price was not clearly defined. In this way, it entered into an investment without clearly defined funds, its investment, which is contrary to the provision of Article 58. The law on the budget system." I'll skip something. "However, two out of the five appointed members were elected in the wrong way. Namely, as members of that commission, Goran Jesic, as president of this commission, has already served as president of So Indji, and Uroš Curuvija, as an expert worker, but who does not have the proper professional title for the works being carried out: reconstruction and adaptation of Sokolski dom" etc. I'm telling you because the budgetary inspection at the end of last year was in the Indji municipality. Since I had the paperwork, and the ministry hasn't contacted me, and I've asked two parliamentary questions from this pay phone, and I haven't received any answers to them before today, I'm just going to point to something out of this. It is said that during one fiscal year, the budget cannot be changed, nor can the budget be owed, which was done during the reconstruction of this Sokol House, etc. I'd have to skip this, because I still have a lot to say. Construction of a "Fast" cigarette factory, where 4.5 million are in charge of a municipality that had to build a complete factory, and no two wells and fences around the factory were made today. This is the way the local self-government authorities work in the municipality of Indji, municipal administration and executive board. The report on the work of the municipal administration for 2005, so it states what act it is, where the law is violated. I'm going to have to finish here, just to commend Mladjan Dinkic, how his full work in the Indji municipality and him, normally. We see here a business co-operation contract. Rodoljub Sabic, once mentioned here, gives the answer that it is illegal what Mr. Goran Jesic did and that he cannot conclude these contracts on temporary dealings with private persons and natural persons in the Indji municipality. I can deliver this to you, and I can deliver what goes on between Rodoljub Sabic and Mr Emil Faizulahi, the regional secretary. Believe me, I don't know this man or his function. I'd give you this information to pass on to Mr Dinkic. I expected him to meet us here today. I still want to say what these debts are that burden the Indji municipality. Over 2.5m euros are debts and claims. The work of local self-government and the domestic business of Mr Dinkic's pulen also speaks of this collapsed water tower, while filling in the populated town of Maradik, where the one who worked this tower is looking for funds. He's suing the "water and sewerage" contractor to pay for his work on this facility, instead of the Indji municipality and the "water and sewerage" suing the contractors for not doing this according to standards. We have a chance today to pay the contractors for something like this. What did I want next? That the SRS stands well in the people has shown time, they have shown these polling results and that the hack for Serbian radicals is a committee in every place, that the purchase is at work and that it is still going on, now I'm going to show you one document, we have here recorded material. Unfortunately, I must conclude that it is the president of the SPS from India, who buys SRS MPs, all in agreement with Mr Goran Jesic, the president of the Indji municipality. So it's about Sreten Jovanovic and Goran Jesic. What's this about? About taking down Mr. Marijan Risticevic, so they're missing some council members in SO Indji, so they need to buy five hungry radicals, as they say here, to do the dirty work, because right now, they're no longer in charge of Marjan Risticevic being president of SO, because he's supposed to be holding them back in some of their ideas and projects, so some council members need to buy. Hope: "What does he get, does he get a job?" Sreten Jovanovic: "Until he gets a job, he will get the amount she received above," the SRS said, "as a technical secretary", which is the SRS's councilman. Hope: "Is Jesic familiar and will he cause problems?" "What a problem, he's in Slovenia, I'll finish it. I didn't even know it was her." "What can I guarantee?" "You'll get that amount you got there, no matter what, until you get rid of some job. I can guarantee that. So, I'm responsible for... I don't want to read all this. There's a lot. There's five pages. Hope: "What is the essence, does the congregation's majority increase?" Sreten Jovanovic: "No, nothing is touching, for everyone there will be provided something." I don't know what's going on. We'll see from these councilmen who go there. "It's essentially important for her to take tomorrow's job." "I can't promise money, I can say I'll fund a few months. Do you understand? I don't have any money, I don't have a budget, and no one can say, "I'll give you money." This is neither the Republic nor the black funds, so it says "dim," you know what word goes on, I don't want to read it, it's very embarrassing for the people of India to hear this, it's really embarrassing. It's the behaviour of a high-ranking SPS officer, and this gentleman is on the EPS Management Board. Hope: "No, I didn't say that, but I'm afraid that tomorrow Jesic doesn't tell you - I'm sorry, but she can't do that, she's not in the game." Sreten Jovanovic goes on to say, "No, that has nothing to do with it. She'll get a match for her expert kit or something like that she can get. He can't get what he can't get." Think of some executive place, etc. (President: Time.) I'm finishing up. Be patient. I think this is interesting for the Indji District Attorney. Hope: "That's what it is for Goran"? Happy Jovanovic: "That's what you told me when we talked, and I told you I had influence and I told you this place was a finished story, but she wasn't even in the game. Therefore, there must be a passageway. As far as I'm concerned, the story is over. Rose didn't want more and finished, Rose doesn't go to meetings" etc. I'm gonna skip a little bit. Sreten Jovanovic: "I have a correct agreement, for the first time with Goran Jesic, when I spoke to him, he will respect me. Some of my people have to get some jobs and they've got jobs," so he mentions people's names, and I can tell you who people are: Mike, former president of the municipality, when this contract was made and this debt towards "The Road of Engineering"; Eror, meaning secretary at the time in SO Indjia; Christmas, director of "The Water and the sewerage", which remained as a technical face. "Now Sinisha will be employed by a communal, will be a guardian, at least have a working internship. He's accepted to be and there's no problem. So, I was meant to protect as many of my people as I could if I could catch them somewhere." Here I go. "I have no problem, nor peripetia with it," he says of Mr. Jesic, "he has great respect for what I say" etc. "So that's him, that's the deal we have, and that's what I'm interested in. I'm interested in hiring my Sinisha, getting married some other time, some money to get for the party... "(Chairman): Will you please finish? Two and a half minutes out of time. Here I go. "They helped me a little when it was being fitted," he thought of the party, "against some other people, not the municipality. She had no connection, because that's not the point, so I put a dozen people on board, they have between seven thousand and ten thousand. Fuck, that's something. "I'm sorry, but that's what it says. "So that was my goal and I don't care anymore." What's most important here for a public prosecutor, so let's get a little bit involved and a republican public prosecutor, this is really out of your mind, I'm asking the Ministry to react here, especially the Ministry of Justice...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27878	Mr. Breathe, I think you've finished your sentence. Please stop this second so I don't have to apply any other measures. You've been over the time you've had for four minutes. Thank you. The president of the Committee on Industry, Veroljub Stevanovic, invites all members of the Committee to come to the third floor for a session of the Committee. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a foreign exchange law and a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Transport Laws in the Drumsian Department (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Since there are no proposing representatives, I'm setting a break of one hour. [[After break – 13.50]] I'm opening the afternoon session. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Marakovic, president of the National Assembly, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27880	I want out of this place, there's no reason for us to take turns, to give everyone who's watching and participating in this session one notice so they can schedule their time, not just today. Today, according to Rule 85 - 4 of the Rules of Procedure, we will be working until the debate on the agenda is over. We expect, in time, that this will be a united debate on counter-guarantee and guarantee, then, if we finish the remaining agenda points tomorrow, so that is this report of the Committee of Auditors and the selection of the holders of judicial functions, it will not work on Friday, and exceptionally, by the same article, the debate on the details of all points of this session will begin with the debate in detail of the first item of the agenda on Monday at 10.00 hours. Compared to that, you can plan your time, and whoever watches the games, you can watch the games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27881	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. We've opened the debate at point 13. I ask if the representative of the proponent, Master Velimir Ilic, minister of capital investment, wants a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27882	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that we recently passed the Transport Act in road traffic. One change is now proposed, because we have a problem with judicial authorities when there are violations of individual road traffic participants, especially in public transport, that they do not give their personal addresses, and for over 400 different offenders they cannot simply resolve everything legally and that these disputes end. That is why one change and a supplement has been given – when a violation is committed, a vehicle is taken, which will be guaranteed to report until all this is regulated and brought into order, and then his vehicle will return to the process, depending on the offence he has committed. I repeat, we have chaos, we have a vehicle exit, these vehicles have no guarantees, and everyone who's been given those charges, I mean criminal or criminal, they're always at some other addresses, all calls come back as unknown perpetrators, and then we have to regulate that to make everything work. It creates a lot of problems and causes chaos in certain cities. So I would ask you to accept this supplement and simply legalize everything and ensure that we increase traffic safety and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27883	Are any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Momir Markovic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not so much because of three or five MPs of the ruling coalition, more because of the citizens of Serbia, we have to comment on this law as well as on all other laws, because the SRS MPs are thoroughly preparing for every bill that comes before the National Assembly. Unfortunately, while we are discussing absolutely unnecessary legal projects here, so far the unidentified persons are sparring with the Serbian government, some of whom no one has chosen to represent themselves as ministers and are trying to represent the state of Serbia. One of Serbia's top state-level usurpators, Vuk Draskovic, is already represented as Serbia's foreign minister today. The other, who literally destroyed and what little remains after Davinic and former Minister Tadic, came on the task of destroying the army, today is presented to the military minister, not even Serbia's military minister, as it will already be called, but to the minister of the military. Of course, there are only two options: either they usurped the ministries' premises (and in that case the police should come and banish them, if they can't do otherwise, then apply force and drive them out of state rooms) or Vojislav Kostunica committed a coup. It would rather be second, because the Administrative Board of Meeting, the chairman of the Administrative Board, holds a session, and after the meeting of the President of the Administrative Board, goes to his office, vice-president or vice-president schedules, without the chairman of the Administrative Board, a new session and carries out a kind of coup. Gentlemen, you can do whatever you want, but you won't be able to do it as long as you want. You are the October government, the fall comes, prepare yourself, someone will only prepare to leave the assembly rooms, and many will need to prepare and blankets, because the nights in Bachvanska are extremely cold, take care. What's so-called. The legislative project, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on road traffic, which we are discussing today, is being prepared and the latest moves are pulling away from us from Kosovo and Metohija, we will discuss such laws, we will also discuss seal protection laws. The other day we were discussing domestic animals, flora and fauna, banning piracy on the open sea and so on. This bill may have come a little later, because two months ago we passed a road traffic law. Then it turns out he's going to be a little punished by whoever gets him, so let's take away his vehicle. I understand that Minister Ilic is visiting Serbia along and across now in the election campaign, goes the whole column, "aud" or "mercedes" and in them Minister Ilic, followed by the helmets that draw bulldozers, boggers, rollers and so on, and then comes to the village, gives a speech, gets down the buffer, settles one street, go to the next village, while the stands, lasts and repairs the streets and promises that everything will be paved if you vote for the candidate, because he is personally Prime Minister Kostunica behind him. This was the case in Bor, i.e. in villages around Bor, and the candidate of the ruling coalition in the first round bursts. They were supposed to put a net under the list so it wouldn't fall off the list. As the candidate broke in the first round, so went the badgers, went Minister Ilic, went the bulldozers, went the rollers, and did nothing there. In the second round, the MP otherwise, and now Mayor Bora, the opposition of the prime minister's candidate deleted the second on the list, about 65% won. I remember in the King's minister promising hills and valleys, and two bridges side by side, if necessary, and airports of some; there is no river, and the river would be made by a minister if necessary, it's not so terrible. Besides, there's money for investment, so it can be done. The minister said he would launch a fierce fight against crime, especially since they caught these at the payoffs. At the same time, he said -- what's a few miles of highway for me to steal, it doesn't matter. He told them to steal, they started stealing, it can't be that much. Now, if there was a minister of justice, I'd like to ask him something. When Jova Djoga was arrested, this authority, his wife, was immediately fired, was a lab on VMA; they now arrested the husband of the President of the Fourth District Court, why not fire the President of the Fourth District Court, because her husband was arrested in this group that stole. What's going on with this government? Do you want to start clearing up or will all of this wait for the SRS after the September elections? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the only thing they have in this law, and it's not in the basic law that we've passed, it's to take away a vehicle to take away a person who's committed a crime, temporarily to take away a vehicle used to commit an offence or a commercial offence. To translate into the language of the citizens. You have your own company, you have your own car, you have your own truck, you have your own van, and your neighbor meets you -- let's get these two bags of something to me. You put it in the car and stop the inspection, catch that you don't have a travel order, or on the list, and they took away the man's vehicle. While billions are being stolen, while only the bones remain from this state, according to the system – what the eye sees is not leaving the hand, you have robbed everything, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, until then we will take away the vehicle of whoever connected the two sacks of potatoes to the neighbors, because there is no, is not listed in the list of goods that he drives. Ladies and gentlemen, a misdemeanor can be sanctioned and should be sanctioned, fined, but don't take away the basics from the man who feeds the family, the company supports it. It's mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, because those who deal with freight and who drive on big must have fit into schemes. I'm not going to tell the Minister's schemes, I'm going to tell those who do the work. I don't want to say the Prime Minister who's got some work to do... However, about all the jobs being done, all the contracts that are concluded with the Ministry of Capital Investment are already circulating Serbia, says – a long time ago VAT was introduced, half come to Veli. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has given seven amendments to this law, I suggest that these parts of the law be deleted where they are said to be taken away – and the vehicle is taken away, because the temporary withdrawal of the vehicle can take 10 days, and it can take a year, depending on how fast the services that the job will end. We have, after all, also proposed amendments, and if you adopt our amendments, then this bill of amendment and the addition of road traffic laws will be acceptable, but I suggest that vehicles are not taken away, that these parts of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27885	Mr. Markovic, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27886	Well, thank you. Maybe the minister will come out a little bit, so I'll have to answer after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27887	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Minister Ilic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27888	Dear People's MPs, it's very ugly for me when someone comes out and starts telling the truth, and they're all thieves, they're all cheaters, they all work illegally, there's only one fair group that works the most honest, etc. I wouldn't say that. And they rose up against these upright men: and they took that which they had seized, and drove them out of power. I don't know, it happened somewhere in a town in southeastern Serbia, etc. The honest people have gone mad. You see, lately I haven't seen any demonstrations, protests, only one group protesting; they know everything, they're building a bridge, and there's no river underneath. You think we're little children, that this Serbia is so naive, you talk about some cities. Sir, in Bor, there's work in Zlot, in villages, 130 million investments in the Bor municipality on the roads. I started the papers before the election, and it'll be over, the papers are in progress. Now, on the Holy Trinity, one time it's over. In the King, gentlemen, you can say whatever you want, promises are to do certain jobs in office. The jobs are on the move, I don't want to tell you what's going on, but these days the Rudno, Tolišnica, Gokčanica, and the Kovacs are finished and a number of other jobs, the Adriatics are completely coming to an end, etc. Don't worry too much, worry, do your job and don't abuse this pay phone, what the people say. The people will say theirs in the election. Don't worry too much about these polls of yours getting you all wet. That's how you guys talked in a lot of places, and then you ended up doing it. The election will come and it's inevitable. Next year's regular election year, which makes you nervous. You'll get a chance to show yourself now in Uzica. We'll see you. You promised a lot in Bor, we'll see what you do. Congratulations on your victory, I have no problems, my candidate hasn't even been to Bora, we supported the candidate's other options, but it doesn't matter. So, please, don't abuse this pay phone, talk nonsense all over the place, no evidence of theft, no embezzlement, half-assed... I'd like to ask you to bring in one that gave Minister Ilic a hundred dinars. Okay, gentlemen, I didn't make a transport company as a minister, I didn't get trucks, I don't have any trucks. And you, when you were ministers, carried out all the transportation through your companies. As for toll, look whose members they are, none of them are from New Serbia. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: None is radical. Oh, my God, look at that. Look at the list and you see when they were admitted to work, you have every arrest, place, when he's employed and who hired him. Look at that, I invited your boss on TV to talk a little bit about it, and I wanted to get him some papers, and he didn't come. I welcome you, wish you a successful day, and you can accept this, you don't have to, but don't tell us about thieves. You know why? Somehow, you know what thieves have always done? When you create some kind of trick, noise, they yell "keep the thief" to get away.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27889	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27890	Wait a minute, Minister, let me tell you what I have to say. There goes the minister, but tell him... You, sir, are from the Ministry, I presume? Tell him I'll ask him if, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we passed a counterguarantee law for a bridge in Vienna that cost 120m euros? We did. Does this assembly decide to grant concessions on the Horgos-Pozega highway? Yes, it is. So who are we building the bridge for if we're already concessioning the entire highway? There goes the minister. There's one more thing, why can't the Bridge work, so many bridges around the world built, now all of a sudden it can't work bridge at Beška but it has to be an Austrian company? I remember that a concession was given in time to build a highway from Belgrade to Novi Sad, so Baby's grandmother, however, were then Democrats, then these yellow ones ruled, formed an enterprise at a bus stop in Vienna, and said – a foreign investor, a contractor, is coming. Turns out she doesn't even have a purse in there, she keeps the stamps in her pockets. All these foreign companies that come to Serbia to work are just formed by people from the ruling structures with a name and a last name, but only the company was formed either in Vienna or Budapest, or in Munich or anywhere to say -- see, these are foreign performers. Bridge building isn't good enough now, because it can't give a commission to Veli Ilic, that's the point. Furthermore, I have to remind the ruling coalition again – you gentlemen from the SRS, you know very well, you remember what is said from this pay phone, and we talked about it – who thinks that under the concession built highway from Horgos to Novi Sad, half the highway on which toll is charged. From Novi Sad to Belgrade built both lanes of highways charging tolls. A signed bridge to enter the concession. The state of Serbia is already paying the loan. And then what are we talking about, whose money is spent by Minister Vela Ilic in the election campaign? Whose money was Velja Ilic spending in Smederev in the pre-election campaign when he also dragged an entire convoy of construction machines? Well, he won, you tricked the Smederians, but you're not and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, and you're not, you're probably not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not. Another airport has to be built in Užica. After all, it is not his problem, Velja Ilic, the minister of the country, a while ago in the means of public information, I read, he said – what is it for me to steal a kilometer of highway. Well, it's not the ones who stole, it's the ones who taught them to steal, because they don't want the boss to get over it. Oh, he can't. Next, what about flying control, where the incredible assets of this country are being poured in, where the minister is to be controlled, and where is Director Stankov, I think his name is Nikola. Now there are ladies and gentlemen MPs, a million and 300,000 salaries. They bought motor sleds, they built nine or seven relays to control the flight. At the time, the country of SFRY had only two checkpoints, and it was enough to cover the entire sky and cover a few hundred miles outside the country's borders. Because you're taking the plane, you're taking it to the border, you're taking it, they're taking it, and then you're taking it, and they're just following it. I'm using another 10 minutes. [[President: Mr. Markovic, replica time is up.]] So let me ask the minister what to do with the road, one day before the Kovin elections, he starts the Gai - Dubovac road, two days working on it, settles two bangers, throws out a few cubes of gravel and pulls out the machines, there and now the construction site stands open. As for the transport company, he meant the former minister, SRS member Dragan Todorovic. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a transport company of 80 and some years. So, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, if you had found any dirt, any kind of dirt, you'd have put him in jail a long time ago, not just him, but everything, in prison. You are still sorry that it did not arrive on October 6th, because that minister of justice asked that a regulation that abolished the death penalty be abolished for only 15 minutes. You were prepared to shoot half of Serbia on October 6th, to remain in power on your own. Now, ladies and gentlemen, your deadline has passed, and this deadline has passed. What you read 40.2%, believe me, lied to you for at least 10%, because we've long gone into the popularity of 50%. And I would ask for a photographer to be brought to paint many MPs here to remain a memory, for many of you will never see the Parliament Hall again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27891	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Jankovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the member of the Rules of Procedure that I advertise is Article 104, which refers to the part that says that we must address one another with respect. Since the minister is not here, Mr. Chairman, this remark applies to you, as the minister said in his statement that MPs are talking nonsense. I don't know if you missed that remark or not, but here's what the minister said about this speaker. As for the part of his presentation where he says that his ministry and he keep their promises, I have to say the next thing. I happened to be a member of the Committee on Traffic and Connections, so by the circumstances, I had the opportunity to attend the Committee sessions where the minister said that as soon as possible local administrations around the cities would try to revitalise and repair local traffic that are regional. Naively believing that, since I came from Sopot, then we were in a coalition at a local level, we created a platform for all three routes that are on the territory of our municipality. Of course, we did it a year and a half ago. If the minister were here, I'd ask him what's out of all the things that were promised then done? Of course, there's an assistant minister who's familiar with what I'm saying, since I gave the lab directly to him. I must say that a few hundred meters of this time was done in Mali Pogorevec itself, everything else is simply impervious, which would be said; however, it was done in part, with the desire to create the impression that something was done, that the eyes of all the citizens of the Municipality of Sopot. I suppose that's the situation in other cities, too, but I felt obliged to say a few words about this. So much for the promise and the honor of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27893	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. We're moving on to a debate. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word application in writing with the order of MPs, shall be submitted by representatives of the SRS. The first has the word of the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric, and after him the Messenger of the people Rodoljub Gačević. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a far more pointless bill has not arrived in the National Assembly than this one has. I remember, the last time the Law on Transport in Road Transport was amended and completed, one of the MPs, or authorised representatives from New Serbia, announced that we expect it to start the current year, i.e. In 2006, there could be a new draft law on road transport, but here we are today discussing a proposal that has nine members. When Minister Velimir Ilic explained the bill's proposal, I thought it was a minister of justice and had some technical problems to solve. There, that's why they propose changes and additions. When adopting a law, there should be little consideration of the situation, i.e. to do a standard of living in Serbia, to see which conditions are applied, certainly with respect to modern achievements in modern European and other world countries. The Serbian Radical Party is certainly for everything that is new, modern and which could improve the regulation of some matter to be accepted in legislation in the Republic of Serbia. However, it has recently ceased with such practice, more specifically since 2001, when the DOS government was formed, at no time has it been assessed, or an analysis of the situation in which a law should be passed and implemented. Here's what it says in Article 1. The proposal for a law - the carrier must have proof of the payment of the price of non-linear transport during the operation of the transport, as if it were an integral part of the assembly of a motor vehicle carrying out the transport and at all times must have a certified and paid copy that the transport was carried out. We think it's completely unnecessary and that it doesn't matter to regulate the transport itself, with respect for everything else that needs to be contained in the van liner. It's okay, but that the vehicle has to have proof that the payment was made, it's pointless to ask, because sometimes it's in practice and impossible because the payment is possible and subsequently or in some other agreed way of payment. Then, it is proposed to suspend the vehicle and issue a confiscation certificate because about 400 perpetrators of this offence are not brought to justice; therefore, vehicles should now be taken away and those who first face this problem. We advocate to regulate that part, but we have an extremely hilly and mountainous municipality in which line-arranged traffic cannot carry out the minimum needs of citizens who live far and even 40 kilometers away from the municipality's headquarters. We don't think this is the way transportation should be done, but this ministry has never thought about how and how this problem could be solved, by some means of the Republic government. But usually the assistance of the Republic government, or at least in promise, comes only (it is complete truth and I am sure that none of those who would like to support this law can deny me) to those of our municipalities where early local elections are being held, where Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic is leaving and cheers as Prime Minister, or conducts an election campaign. You know what he's doing there? He promises to build roads, waterways, religious objects. All this is needed, it is nothing controversial, but we SRS MPs are wondering from where, whether the Serbian budget is one of the largest wells available after Minister Dinkic Velimir Ilic can take whenever he wants and in whatever amount he wants to take and to promise to solve these problems. We don't think that's right, and with that kind of practice, it should stop. You also saw after these elections last week, it turns out that it does not produce any results, as Serbian citizens have had enough lies and promises. At no time will I say that Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic is a thief or not. I think it's something that's absolutely none of my business, because I don't have any proof of it right now. I think he's dealing with things a lot more than this ministry should be doing. Otherwise, when he shows up here as an authorised representative of the government to explain some legal proposals, he mostly speaks in a populist way about what has been done and what needs to be done, with certainty of exaggeration. I remember a year and a half ago he was in the Municipality of Ljubovija, where all the presidents of the Machuvan County municipalities were invited. He promised to build a road from Love, that is, an unbuilt and unfailed part between Love and Pecka in the course of last year, but before the end of the year it began with these works. About a mile [1.5 km] was done and stopped there, and he gave firm guarantees that it would be completed completely. In fact, it's a 5.8km journey, and it's been done 1.2 or 1.3 kilometers and it's stopped. Then, in the master's direction from Šapac towards Loznica through the Mosque, the road was made last year, and already in this year the consequences of unquality works can be seen. Is this about taking funds from there, whether it's about money laundering, mostly, the quality needed to carry out these works is lagging behind. Why is the bill still tragic? If a vehicle carried out outside or any other transport has been withdrawn and was not properly carried out, the costs shall be borne by its owner and shall not be said on condition that it has been proved responsible for what traffic inspectors were able to determine on the spot. Also a large paradox, it is said – this law takes effect the next day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". The general rule of entry into force of the legislative proposals is not accepted here, as if within eight days, as usual, all the problems in this area will be resolved. In fact, they are not big, but only about scaring Serbian citizens, because they sometimes need their vehicles, which may have some technical disadvantages, to carry out transportation for their own purposes. As it stands in the bill, it is possible to sanction them for that. I think that Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, with his associates, I assume he has high-quality associates, had to engage much more in doing what the National Assembly chose him to do, not to deal with populist assessments, forecasts and strengthening his party's infrastructure. Of course, it's allowed and it's no problem at all, but it's all about state spending, spending huge funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such a law, as it only makes life conditions difficult for Serbian citizens anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27895	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Milan Veseinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as it is written here, the aim of this law is security and equality in public transport. As far as the SRS is concerned, we are for that, certainly, but in this way as it is presented here in this conclusion and written, this cannot be achieved and cannot be achieved, it can actually be misused as it corresponds to some in power in relation to those who are in opposition, etc. I'll tell you how all this can be done, interpreted and abused. It states here that in case a person was found to be trafficked with a particular vehicle, to express myself in a national language, his vehicle was taken away, he was placed in a parking lot, and after the whole process of testing was completed, the evidence was carried out by a misdemeanour procedure, and then he would be determined afterwards and given the vehicle. But the vehicle will be given to him at the cost of keeping the vehicle in a parking lot. What the people would say is, there could be "a expensive pie but a tepsia", those costs can be so enormous that they're bigger than a valuable vehicle. Secondly, it is not written here how the transfer of that vehicle, the technical correctness, is going to take place, and in the same condition it is. I'll take an example: whether it's a truck, a bus, a passenger vehicle or a van, taken away under such conditions, put on guard and the process lasts a year. It's a winter period, there was distilled water in the fridge or with a little loose antifreeze or soft water, the cold destroys the vehicle, there's a crack in the block, refrigerators and other installations, and then what? It must be known whose burden these costs will go to or, simply, that's the risk of the owner of the vehicle. It can be misused, it can be carried out by dragon punishment, about as in Sharia law – by which hand did you steal, by right? Right to the hive, give the axe and cut. It's not a vehicle that's fair, unfair, thieving, criminal and all that; it serves someone for a purpose, it's for transport. If someone made this vehicle a crime, some illicit acts, smuggling and so forth, then it doesn't mean we have to take away a vehicle, like, we're gonna prevent it from being able to deal with that activity, so we're gonna do a prevention of that phenomenon. No, he'll find another vehicle, but that vehicle may be missing from other family members who have the ability to drive, work fairly. Have him do the inspection and control him. If he does such a thing, there are measures and let them punish it. We are certainly about to tighten the measures to reduce the crime and abuse of all kinds, for example, in public transport. We don't want to protect those cab drivers who illegally use taxis, didn't sign up, most likely technically wrong and took away the job of those who are legally registered, who are registered and who pay an orderly tax. Of course that's not what we're trying to do. Abuses in this sense can be taken in another way; if these provisions are accepted, none of the citizens are sure what awaits him on the way. Imagine if any of the citizens were on their way, stopped by a traffic, tax inspection, etc. and exercise control, and then says – this goods that has been purchased (which is not at all a subject for the market, is neither a commodity in terms of trade, most often citizens do not even keep accounts from the fiscal register, but has brought for their own purposes or bought three shirts, no account etc.) can be the subject of abuse, smuggling, illegal trafficking, etc. It may be a reason to take away his vehicle, which means, practically, a destroyed vehicle, a permanently stolen vehicle, because when it's been lying somewhere for a year or two, in such conditions, there's nothing from that vehicle. Others, also banal, example: parties that are not in power, who are in opposition, went to a rally, say, in Belgrade, imagine that we left Prepolje and stopped us somewhere in the middle of the road between Prepolje and Belgrade, to exercise control – give us a list of passengers. A messy list is found, not well-recorded passengers, and it is not a good contract because the bus was used in an emergency transport, vanlinian, then interpreted – it is for these and those purposes, the seizure of the vehicle, the passengers will be thrown out in the middle of the road. Most likely, such inconveniences will happen many times because they are possible abuses. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. They can interpret themselves in one way or another, depending on how the one who is in power interprets it. For example, if someone in power is in the interest, he can say – we want to prevent some political set, etc., then for that purpose, he will also use and prevent the freedom of movement of citizens etc. So it's not that we're trying to protect some criminals, criminals, etc. This applies to criminals. It's another crime thing that's a crime. For example, a vehicle was found, a driver escaped, left drugs in the car, etc. That's another thing. So it's nothing to do with this, but I'm a businessman, etc. can be abused for all these purposes, even for political purposes, in order to achieve a completely different goal. So this is why we're not for this kind of law, because there's no purpose as it says here, it can be misused, and it's going to be used for a whole other purpose when it needs certain authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27897	The word is made by MP Milan Veselinovic, followed by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, similar to Minister Dinkic and Velimir Ilic, wants to become an institution for himself, by making these changes and supplementing them, wants to discipline the people, to put everything under his paw, to control, to tax, to tax, to charge, even now to confiscate and drive to the citizens, and to those who survive some transport, and may not meet the conditions of this legal project. Maybe it's that Stalin theory -- it's the easiest thing to manipulate with hungry masses. The law aims at some rigorous measures that will apply to citizens of Serbia, and it is forgotten that Serbian citizens now live in difficult times, few citizens work in businesses. All of them somehow hatch to survive, and the Serbian government has collapsed on them, especially the Ministry of Finance, and now Velimir Ilic, with the goal of stifling them. The predecessor said well that this law was not laid down, it's not concise, it's not precise. In this law, it is simply said – his vehicle or means of transport will be seized to carry out these illegal activities. There's no telling what's going to happen to that vehicle if in the meantime there's a hack, theft, damage to that vehicle. Then what does a citizen or a company expect, it doesn't matter who, who's going to compensate him for the car that was rented and which, according to your proposal, protects or protects a road or traffic inspector. A really weird law, a weird proposal in a hard time. What do they do with taxi drivers, and there's 50 percent of taxi drivers that aren't registered? It is true that the ride should be prevented in some way and put in its way, but you must understand that these citizens are also feeding their families from such a job. Not to say what are the privileges of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which Velimir Ilic has adopted, when giving lines to carriers, starts with buses, then approvals to export-export companies, etc. These are privileges, and only those companies that are at the will of Minister Velimir Ilic will be entitled to do so. There is no Minister Velimir Ilic here, I would ask him, when he was carrying out that "buldozer" revolution and when he went from Cačka to the boggers, trucks and bulldozers, whether he might have had a contract, signed with someone, and whether he then met all the conditions to bring down Belgrade, the Federal Assembly, then the Republic of Yugoslavia. He has to remember it and he needs to know that he can do the same soon enough, so he can reorganize the baggers and some kind of revolution, because he's getting closer to the election anyway, and I believe Velimir Ilic will be in opposition if he's not where he's supposed to be. Since Velimir Ilic has been walking for a year, he promises highways, airports and, as our people say in Novi Pazar, Velimir Ilic is advocating to Novi Pazar, and Bajram Omeragic is Serbia, I would take advantage of the opportunity to read to him two letters sent by the Association of Serbs from Tutina, to get to know Velimir Ilic a little bit, since he is competent for these demands, and since he has the largest amount of money currently in Serbia. As the newspapers say today, Kostunica is not ruling, but some tenants, and I can freely say that Dinkic and Velimir Ilic rule since they have the money, so perhaps they can meet the remaining Serbs in Tutin, there are about 700 of them, to help them not move on, because only in the past week have eight families moved out. They have addressed the Ministry of Capital Investments, it is numbered to whom they address, the patriarch and all in a row. As a folk MP from these parts, I am obliged to read this and here's what the Tutina gentlemen say: "These days, through local media, which do not have an approved frequency, are already using BiH's Hayat TV, in the Rusk area, riots are being introduced. Namely, in the SDA's short-term agreements, as transferred by local media, all the state media, EPS, Telekom, PTT, the Ministry of Education, are now becoming the responsibility of the SDA. This would establish the concept of an extreme SDA party on the creation of the Sandzak Republic with a centre in Novi Pazar. If the Republic of Serbia gave all state institutions in Novi Pazar, it would be the next step for a quick referendum in the ratic area, further breaking up the Republic of Serbia and creating a green transversal that has long been outlined in the plans of Kosovo, Sandzak and Bosnia separatists. The Serbian people and most Bosniaks are not for that option, because it would totally destabilise this region and lead to the emigration of the people from these parts." This was sent by the Human Rights Committee from Tutin. The following letter sent to the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Government, has the following content: "We have a moral and civic duty to inform you of some of us very important issues. We do not know if the state of Serbia has the right information about the inn and the land gifts that local self-government gives and assigns to its co-workers in the Tutin municipality. We don't know how financial and other control has never come since 1996, since Kucevic ruled the Tutin municipality. That the worse accident, the land of the few Serbs remains, and exactly 780 citizens, Kucevic inn and gives to his close relatives and like-minded, regardless of what other disputes are taking place over the same; he and his relatives, through the Development Fund, are taking loans and with Serbia's money persecuting Serbs from Tutin. One of several hundred examples is this one in the heart of the city where a close relative of the president of the municipality of Kučević has a company called Hoffman over which he received 27 million dinars of credit from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, and buys the company "23 November" with a quarry for poor 35,000 euros, although Serbian Gojko Obradovic offered 1,200,000 euros. The same family, father and son, close relatives of the Tutin municipality's president, owners of Hoffman and 23 November again appear at the Development Fund for a second 500,000-euro loan. He began to create a private business centre with about 30,000 square metres of business space, which he would later sell and thus drive away the owners of Serbs from their estates from an enormous wealth. We ask you to do everything to stop the approval of the loan, because a loan has already been taken, after which, for the land of the owner Branislav Stasevic, where the company Hoffman started construction, a process of denationalisation before the authorities in progress, and to take the opportunity to get financial, budgetary, construction control into this municipality as soon as possible so that we can prove on the spot the allegations from this letter. If you grant the requested loan to a company in Tutina, then we are ready to take the buses to the Development Fund and strike hunger, because the Serbs in this municipality would no longer have anything to look for. We believe that we have directed the letter into the right hands, and by believing in God and God's justice, we hope that you will honor this Serbian letter from poor Tutin." I'll give these two letters to Mr. Ministry representative, but this is just an indicator, and I wanted to show you people's MPs and the public of Serbia that we have a lot of work to do than pass such rigorous laws and do some unnecessary things, for example. day by day, we lose part by part of the territory of the Serbian state, and unfortunately, it now threatens the municipality of Tutin and the whole of the Rusk area.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27899	The word is made by MP Branislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27900	Mr. Angelkovic, while the chairman was Mr. Obradovic, I had one objection, advertising according to Rule 104's Rules of Procedure, and it was about the minister's presentation. He said MPs talk nonsense. Of course, the chairman did not provide any explanation, and in line with that, I would like to see the ruling majority vote in this case, whether they are also talking nonsense or just radicals, in the election day of the Parliament, not because it means something to me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27901	I'm asking the service to record and make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27902	As far as the proposal is concerned, we have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Act in road transport. The proposal has nine members and is likely to be extorted by recent protests by taxi drivers and I am fully convinced that these amendments and additions would not have occurred if you had listened in due time to the advice of the SRS parliamentary group and adopted amendments that we had made on the basis of the basic bill then. In reason and reasons for adopting problems that need to be addressed, it is said - the law should address the problem of frequent committing and repetitive violations and commercial offences in public transport in road traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law will create conditions for preventing carriers, as well as persons not registered to carry out public transport, to repeat offences, i.e. commercial offences, while the other persons will be deterred from committing the offence. Of course, it's contained in Article 50a that speaks of mandatory vehicle confiscation. In this way, future offenders will turn away, their funds will be taken away so that they will not be able to repeat these violations. Also, the aim of passing this law is to sanction violations of the Transport Act in road transport and prevent illegal work. Finally, the aim of the adoption of this law is to introduce the business of the carrier into legal financial flows and to prevent the avoidance of the enforcement of tax obligations in the out- of-line transport of passengers, thus bringing to a level playing field carriers carrying out extra-line passenger transport in respect of the payment of the price of transport services with other carriers. We generally have nothing against this, but we're afraid this will be used for uncontrollable budget filling, as well as inaccurate means of training strictness. As regards amendments and additions, Article 3 states, Article 44v after Article 1 adds paragraphs 2 and 3, and I will now read Article 2 which says: "The temporarily withdrawn vehicle used for the execution of the offence or of the commercial offence shall be kept until the judicial end of the offence, i.e. the procedure for commercial offences, on the cost of the owner, or on the person from whom it is temporarily taken. "Station 3 says: "The way to take away, guard and deal with the vehicle described in Article 2 is prescribed by the minister. "Of course, it is a great discretionary authority of a minister who at least does the job that the government has entrusted him with, but rather is making money for taxpayers by acting in local elections, promising everything and everything. Earlier in the address, which was about advertising the Rules of Procedure, I said part of his promises in a few sentences and that would be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27903	The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27904	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, let me say that none of us went out for this pay phone to speak against the law. The SRS is in favour of legality in all areas, including this one. However, looking at these additions to the laws that have been complemented since 2005, I have somehow baptized this and renamed it as criminal provisions, because it all comes down to, in fact, some criminal provisions which, a colleague said, and there will be more repetitions, full budget or money going to the ministry, as the minister is mostly asked here. I'll have some proof of that later. Of these nine changes, or members, I'll just quote you some. First, he says he has evidence of payment, means, once again, punishment; Article 2 – withdraws the vehicle, Article 3 – the cost of the owner, Article 4 – the protective measure of the withdrawal of the vehicle is pronounced, then Article 5 – the same withdrawal of the vehicle, Article 6 – the measure of withdrawal of the vehicle, etc. Then finally, all of this in Article 9 stands, what Mr. Peric, a member of the SRS, says here – this law comes into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". What does that mean? Everyone goes into effect after eight days or it's a longer term, but this one has to go right now, so the next day, it's gonna start collecting, and there's a lot of violations, and it's gonna be a lot. I'm asking you, speaking of road traffic, here in this section it's said that the payment has to be made, it seems to me that it's Article 1, that it has proof of the payment of the price of the van liner's transport, it means passengers. This here is probably about goods in freight traffic, or road traffic. I'll just remind you that there's a lot of problems, that they're insecure and that the vehicles will be taken away, so all the cargo vehicles, if I'm not speaking in the wrong direction. So I'm just going to take an example of the Priboj municipality, two-thirds of it is territorially separated by a border crossing between Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia now. Most of the time, since Priboy's pretty much down materially now, people tend to heat up on wood. The transport of that tree is done by road traffic over two border crossings, or rather four, and charges are charged, people are poor, pensions are small, and how now, let's say, this carrier will have proof of payment, if it applies to that, extra-line transportation or some liner transport, how he will pay him who asks – bring me wood, I'll pay you in two or three months. So, he's got to pay out of his pocket so he can pay his taxes, and then he doesn't get paid, if you take his car, because the deck's paid to pick up the car. Now I'm going to move a little further, because I've recorded something here in an explanation, and I don't think you have any confidence in the judiciary, so – the options discussed to solve the problem without passing any acts. This is a little funny, a little illogical. He says, "Before the bill was drafted on several occasions, meetings and traffic inspection arrangements were held with judges for violations, but without a concrete solution to the problem. "What does that mean? It means that we don't, or you don't have any confidence in the judges for violations, you choose them here, you vote, and then they can only figure in this case, and jurisdiction is transferred to another; it is here that it is actually the Minister or the Ministry of Capital Investments or the traffic inspection that will cooperate with them. I would point you to the judge's duties to judge, and as they judge, of course, I remember the oath, so they should judge, as it stands. It goes on to say – the financial resources needed to enforce the law. So: "In order to implement the law on the amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, there is no need to provide specific resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. "Of course it isn't and it doesn't have to, because so much money is being poured out of these penalties that it's going to be extra, that it might be able to be paved somewhere else, except where the elections are held. "In the vanlinic transport of passengers, except for the extra-line transport referred to in Article 31a of the position of the first law, the carrier must have proof of the payment of the price of the extra-linean transport," this applies to all of this, the tax is immediately collected. Then, "Secondly taken-off vehicle," and not to take up time, I still have to read this, "which was used to commit an offence or to commit a criminal offence, is kept until the judicial end of the offence, or the procedure for commercial crimes, on the cost of the owner. "Imagine now, a vehicle is taken away, and then that slow, so to speak folkly, stretches out, and it stretches out for a long time. I'd like to ask Mr. Cirkovic not to throw it away. (President: Mr. Cirkovic, please enable Mr. Penezic. ) Which means the owner will fill the bill well with the legislator. Now I'm asking you something else formal, so I'm not going to take up any more of your time, which is why you don't fix this, as long as you're going to figure out this expression for example. from Article 48 — fines from 100,000 to 400,000 new dinars. What does this mean to you from the old law? The rest like that? Since 1990, and I don't know what year, it seems to me in 1991. This should be deleted, no more new or old, only if you don't think the minister will take those old bills, wrinkled, and then print new ones on Topcider. I think it's logical to delete this, the dinar is a means of payment with us, the official currency, there's no new, old dinars. Another illogicality, I have to go back and I'll end it. It's kind of like you're freaking out here, like you're threatening kids. "The objectives achieved by the act – the adoption of this law will create conditions for preventing carriers, as well as persons not registered to carry out public transport, to repeat offences, i.e. commercial offences, while at the same time deterring other persons from committing offences, i.e. commercial offences. "So, we will punish those who have sinned, and this will be an example for others not to work. I think this is too high. So anyone who commits an economic offense will be punished, and that's the law. You don't need to be scared by law, you don't need to be like kids at school, if you don't, if you're like this, you're gonna get a unit. And if you're like the other one, you won't. This is more like it to me - if you're not gonna get a unit from him, if you're somebody's unit, you'll get a unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27905	I thank Mr. Penezic. I thank Mr. Cirkovic for allowing me to finish. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27906	Dear People's MPs, the first thing I'm going to say, is what happened today as well as many days earlier in the past two and more years, and I am speaking to the chairman - the humiliation and destruction of the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia happened today. The Minister of Capital Investments as a representative of the government for this item of the agenda should be here in this room at 12.45 hours. A session or assembly session has been suspended until the minister arrives and a break has been made. The minister arrived at almost 1400 hours and began a debate with his explanation of this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. The usual minister of capital investment comes out briefly here, explains a bill from a glamorous ministry, called the Capital Investments Ministry, jinxes the MPs and then at the door, reportedly has jobs to do. He said, among other things, that MPs are talking nonsense here in the National Assembly. Since this came as a question to be said by MPs in the voting day, but I must say such a dreary argument – namely 400 offenders, who are not at addresses for the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure due to illegal transport under the road transport law, are the reason for the proposed amendments and additions to the law. The minister himself said there's chaos in this area. Unfortunately, chaos exists in all areas of life and work in Serbia, especially in the Ministry of Capital Investments, and in this part called road traffic, not to mention rail traffic and other parts of this ministry, air traffic. And if we were to engage individually in the work of the Ministry, when it comes to certain services of the Ministry, when it comes to a certain administrative procedure around building land, about building permits, urban conditions, plans, general, regulation, then we would only see what chaos is, and that is not enough, but crime. There is a people's saying that when it comes to keeping something or being available as a good host or as an honorable and honest man, which is what every civil servant should be without talking about the minister and member of the government, the people said that – you give the goat to guard the cabbage; it would be a lot of treasure when it comes to Minister Velimir Ilic. There is another saying. Give the fool a stone, and you will see that he will break your head. This majority who chose the government of Vojislav Kostunica, so-called The democratic bloc has in some way defined the government's composition as such, as the Ministry's conjecture. The minister here in his explanation of this bill and in the replica of MP Momir Markovic, told him what he started in the municipality of Kraljevo. I won't talk about other municipalities, since I know exactly what he promised in February of 2006 to work in the Kingdom Municipality. At that time, he did not tell the citizens of the Kraljevo municipality what the authority of the Directorate for the Ways of the Republic of Serbia, other public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, had put all of this into one basket, and today he mentioned the completion of the work here at the Ibarska Master's Office in the village of Adran. It's the task and obligation of the Republic Road Directorate, it's the highway, the Ibar Highway. It has nothing to do with local self-government, the King's municipality's budget. He said that works had started to build and pave the roads in the November area, from Studenica to Ruden and from Usća to Gokčanica, not to talk about that road from Usce to Mlanca which was torn apart, thanks to Minister Velimir Ilic, even last fall. These people were in a much better situation than when they were reportedly involved in solving their life problem, asphalting that road, Velimir Ilic. They couldn't make it to Mlancha or from Mlancha to Usce all winter. The explored path has turned into a hook and the same fate awaits those who live in Gokchanica and Ruden. He promised the tenants of Ruden that St. Elijah would be roasted at the grill and would probably be tankers with beer and bet there with one of those peasants. I was in the mouth two weeks ago, and I met with these people on a committee of citizens of Usce and I said, "The minister must have lost his bet and call him immediately and get ready, if he is able, August 2nd to keep his promise from the bet." He did not mention here whether he stopped that hill in Popovic with the CIP, CIP experts, but did not mention that the candidate, or the elected President Milos Babic, transferred 802 thousand dinars from the budget reserve, and was published in the Official List of the Kraljevo municipality, the SZR from Kragujevac, which allegedly drilled and probed the field in Popovici to do the mountain stop project in Popovici. New Serbia and Velja Ilic did not give the dinar, but CIP experts, who were under CIP quotes, immediately sketched that all this would be rescheduled and done. It can be falsely promised to be wrong, but it is unacceptable from one who represents a state, who represents a nation, who is a government. The post of minister must not be misused. The minister spoke here today in the first person – I, I started it, I did it, as he said in the campaign – I will single out, there needs two million, four, five, ten, I will give. Where does the minister give it, whose resources does it give? Are these the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Who is filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Full of Serbian citizens, taxpayers. Unfortunately, they are full of poor citizens, fulfilling their obligations. They honor the state, according to local self-governments, but do not have a serious state operating under positive laws and, honour of exceptions in Serbia, do not have a serious local self-government operating in the interest of all citizens. It is an obvious example of the Kraljevo municipality, as well as many municipalities in Serbia. What do we have for example that victory? We have a candidate, now the president of the Kraljevo municipality, Dr Milos Babic of the King. We have a blockade of local authorities, we have an example that since February 22nd, when Dr Milos Babic took over, there is no elected deputy president of the municipality, no proposal. Only two So sessions were held, and only to interrupt the deadline for not introducing temporary measures and applying the Law on Local Self-Government. We do not have a report on the work of the municipal administration for 2004, we do not have a report on the work of the municipal administration for 2005, we do not have a report on the implementation of the 2005 budget, although the legal deadline has passed, although we have asked as a parliamentary group of SRS on several occasions to report to the SO Royal public procurement committees. Kraljevo municipality, I have to say again because of the national MPs present and because of the citizens of all Serbia, is currently the largest municipality in Serbia, the tenth per capita, with more than 20,000 exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, with more than 3,000 refugees from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, with huge infrastructure problems that have been under way for decades, not to say at least 20 years. The King has no bypass, the King has only one bridge on Ibra. This is about everything that has been said here, especially the Minister of Capital Investments, and you, Mr. Chief of Parliament Group G17, have a manager in the King's Nesovic, and he should have made an account after two and a half years of what he did for the municipality of Kralje and what he did, except with donations to Beranovac, misusing funds. I can say that responsibly. And he imposed a load on the neck of 20 families to pay for the heating of eight to nine thousand dinars. Now imagine, and these are all social cases, ten families, and ten families exiled and escaped. There he is, the minister is back. (President: And Mrs. Radeta has returned, so you can finish, since you wanted the time until Mrs. Radeta arrives. Here, now we've solved one and another problem, so you can finish it. ) I ask a question about the tender for the bridge at Beška and the tender for the bridge at Ibra in Kralje – will some companies with purse and bow or crime of white collars continue to rob Serbia? Those who didn't throw one shovel somewhere, or have a shovel, or that handcart, should now allegedly be performers or bridge builders. She is unable to build the bridge of Beška, she is unable to build the Bridge, although she reported to the tender, to build a bridge in the Kingdom on Ibra. Apparently, some company probably won the King's Bridge there, which never did. And you said in the means of informing that the European Bank, which has approved funds or loans for the construction of the Beška Bridge, does not allow the Bridge to build. When did the bank interfere in the tender and determine the performer? And don't cheat on Serbian citizens to influence the bank in the selection of performers. Don't throw it away, Minister. The minister says I'm lying. When I get the bank, I ask you... I've worked at the Jugobank for 24 years, never a bank has the right, nor meddles in the business of one who uses credit, who takes guarantees or any business through the bank. The bank's only trying to protect itself for what it's done to whoever's the bank's commissioner. With such public statements, you want to justify that thousands of Bridge workers do not come to work, that they do not survive the Bridge, because they will probably get an Austrian or French firm, and that company is certainly, like many companies, founded by local alleged businessmen, and essentially they only have one room with a phone, and maybe not a room, but a stamp in their pocket. And they'll take a good percentage, and they'll probably work as subcontractors, Serbian experts. It's a reality. The Bridge has built hundreds of bridges in the former SFRY, not to speak outside these spaces, and now the Bridge is unable to build a bridge near Beška, so it is not even able to build a bridge on the Ibar River. That's the essence and what you're doing; but your range is certainly, and you'll, as you stand, ruin the Council in Guca, but it'll probably develop a good cupussion in the Moose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27907	I thank you, Minister Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27908	Dear MPs, a man must listen and stay for a while. You're asking me why I'm going out. Listen, if someone comes out for a pay phone and starts from Coolin Ban saying what hurts them, it's hard to listen. Mr. Cetrović went to the election and lost the disaster. If I had so many votes in the city where I live, I wouldn't be in politics anymore. People cleaned him up like a broom and now there's nothing wrong with the King, and if he'd won, everything would have been fine. Man, if you were good, you wouldn't be on the dowry listening to everything there, you'd be a host. People will not choose you, they say. He has come. Listen, you can't insult everyone anymore. (Veritre Radeta, from the scene: "Pianduro". You said I was a thief, etc. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: Yes, you are a thief.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27909	Mrs. Radeta, when you get the word you'll speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27910	My dear, what you were saying about the King is such a lie. For Popovic, the money was transferred worth 10 million. The CIP has done the projects, it's done the shepherds, it's all done according to the project that's agreed. She had to do the project documentation first, and then she's moving on to work. Some jobs are done together. Some work, of course, as in the Adriatic, the Directorate, but large investments are heading towards the King. More than 500 million were invested last year and done from Kralje to Usče this year. Over 560 million investments were invested. Now it's a big investment from Kragujevac, the flat Gai, the Vitanovac, the Vitanovac, the Royal, it's a huge investment, it's probably somewhere over 400 million. It's true that the bridge on the bypass is finished on Moravia and it's true that part of the bypass is finished. The other part can't be finished, because you live there and you don't give. Everybody knows that. You stop and don't let the road pass in front of your house, and we have to go through some other methods on the road, because you're the smeller who took the position and not let the work be done. Ask the Royals, so they tell me – not that the Messenger, it is in front of his house, and in some dispute is that share. Second, we work together on the bridge on Ibra with the city of Kralje. You're here complaining about Bridge building. People admitted to me today, they lost their job at the bidding because they couldn't hand over the paperwork. They left last minute, it was a car accident, time's up, and they didn't hand over the paperwork. So they couldn't participate in the tender when they couldn't physically hand over the papers. Otherwise, we all cheered for Bridge to get a job. Yeah, we set up an accident, it was a car accident, people died, and we set up that accident, according to you, right? Of course, that's what you think. So, gentlemen, don't tell stories here. Let me say something about Beska. This government has dictated that Beška is working with a domestic consortium. The company "Serbian Roads" has been assigned to Beška "The Bridge" and its consortium as the most favourable performer. It's a finished story as far as Serbia is concerned. However, in London, the EBRD suspended the consortium because the balance was not done properly because people participated in Montenegro, participated in Serbia, handed over two completely different balances for the same year, for the same company, and they disqualified them. The EBRD Commission in London disqualified the consortium due to falsified documentation in the company balance sheet. We worked hard, and the finance minister and former Deputy Prime Minister, the ministers, we all worked hard, and we had negotiations 20 times. There's a deadline for the Bridge to finish the job with the EBRD. They failed, and those people say, they'll work the next bridge, they'll be partners in the business if they don't get it, but it hasn't been solved yet. I'm really asking you, don't abuse this pay phone so much, say it in a way, this goes public, people listen, and they think someone took it from someone. No, I'm a big fan of Bridgework. Sir, all works on the construction of bridges in Serbia, Bogojevo, Osrežnica and other railway bridges are given "The Bridge", with the favor of both the government and businesses and all of us. So don't be some bigger patriot than me or my associates now. We talked today, "The Bridge" was assigned a big job on a bypass around Belgrade, and they will be starting work these days. More investment is several times more than Beška and Mostogradja is satisfied and the consortium is satisfied. Therefore, I ask that we be very correct. I came here to give you a proposal to change, it's yours to vote, to adopt or not to adopt, and let's not talk about the King now. I know you're almost in pain and it's going to hurt you a long time, but what I'm going to do is I couldn't help you. I've tried to get as little of it as possible. You spit me out there every night. In fact, you lost the election because you spat on me every night on local media, and I wasn't a candidate. I don't know why you were talking to me. Please, I didn't even know you. You were such a nice man to me, with a beard, you acted on that poster very intellectually, and when I first met you on the media, so much insult, so much untrue. I asked around about you and this is just one detail: at the bank where you worked, they told me you stole over some 100,000 marks. You need to explain it here. That's not my problem, that's your problem. The royals say -- he can never win here, we know what he's done, that it's politically covered up. That's right, you know it well. Of course, after you bought the barefoot suits, the good shoes, you became an MP, you started a little bit around the city to expose yourself, etc. But the people don't want you, that's the problem. You can come out here and talk, but you can see no one will listen to you either. Yours come out, too. Here's a few radicals, people come, it's their duty to listen to you a little bit. I don't want to talk to you guys, and that's why I came out. I wanted to talk about the law, and you're telling me about Vuk Draskovic, the Foreign Ministry, something I really don't have time to listen to. I came here to talk a little bit, to tell you about Popovice and this is not true. There's a road in Rudn. Those bets and all that, so you all know: you are like some village abroncer, all of you know who is with whom. You're MPs. You are a Serbian MP, and you must speak as an MP, a classy man. Do you know what was once an MP, brother born, until you came into parliament here? The MP was an idea for Serbia. When they say an MP came, people get "frozen," they come out to hear him. You're the one who broke that name "the ambassador," you're talking shit in here. I don't know, this lady is replicating something to me, throwing it away, and I don't know what dude she slept with here in Belgrade. I don't know what storm brought her or the storm. I don't know what you're talking about. I can talk to you about the law, about what we need to talk about, but, gentlemen, I don't have time to talk to you from the Coolin Ban, you're a doton of people. This is where you settled your pension to wait. I just like you, I like you very much, believe me. But believe me, I don't have time to listen to you and I really welcome you from my heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27911	Minister Ilic, first, the minister must listen to the MPs. Whether he likes the MPs or not, that's his right. You have the right to respond just as they have said, but you have an obligation to listen to an MP. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: hello, monkey, where are you going? I also do not allow ministers to be called ugly names. You know, I've said that a lot of times here when I chaired, and I'm asking you to sit down one and the other, so that everyone has to keep an eye on how to make sure they don't choke, or, better say, everyone has to count what kind of spoon they take, so they don't eat. That's because someone who talks like that about someone else doesn't have to be hard on him later and cry when he gets an answer. If you allow yourself to insult others, you must also endure insults from the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27912	Mr. Angelkovic, the way you run this Parliament's session is below all levels. You let Velimir Ilic get his ass kicked in here, put out a series of nonsense that, of course, only he can bring out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27913	Just like I let Mr. Cevrovic say what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27914	Now let me go, please, and when I'm done, then you say what you want, and if I break the Rules of Procedure, then give me a warning, punish me, cast me out.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27915	Mrs. Radeta, you asked me how I ran the session and I'm obliged to answer you, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27916	You can't explain it to me in the middle of my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27917	I can answer your question right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27918	When I'm done, then you can tell how you conducted the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27919	I ask all participants in this parliamentary assembly to take care of what they say, and if they don't care what they say, to endure the answer on the other hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27920	Thus, Article 104 was broken in the most harsh way possible by a man who must by no means behave like this in the National Assembly. The chairman tolerated it without knowing that there was a difference between a MP and an official named Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. To this day, on the basis of the example of Velimir Ilic, I was convinced that it is enough for the ministers to enter this hall to perform an alcohol test, to bring an alcometer, but after this today it seems to me that this much nonsense and this much nonsense and the way Velja Ilic stands out is really below each level. He calls someone abronosians, thieves, etc. Him?- I'm sorry. Vela Ilic, known in Serbia as the biggest thief and criminal, is in fact a dead race between him and Dinkic, but in one part where he has the state budget, of course, Vela is incomparable. He's in pain and criminal charges, the fact that he's going to be out of power very soon and will result in years of imprisonment. He's talking about someone wearing "boss" or suits like this?- I'm sorry. He's a 50-year-old donkey, who celebrates his birthday and flies on a plane over Cuck. Who gave him the money for that? Where'd he get that? Did his dad leave it to him? She treats the state budget like she's spending Dad's money. All this talk and talk about how the public of Serbia would draw attention from a coup today in Serbia, that Vojislav Kostunica would further extend his life span, of course when I say "lifespan," I mean literally not in the physical sense, but in terms of both recent slavery for Dinkic and Velju Ilic. By doing them a favor, he did Serbia something that no one who has ever exercised power has done. So, Mr. Angelkovic, no matter what your answer will be, I insist that the Parliament in the voting day declares this truly incredible injury to the Rules of Procedure and this incredible and inadmissible behavior of Velimir Ilic, a poor man and a thief, who behaves here as the most common jillkos in Guca when he gets drunk, as he normally behaves. That's his behavior. We Serbian radicals will not behave the way Velimir Ilic behaves, because we cannot, nor do we, nor do we want to, but in the follow-up to this debate we will talk about many interesting things for the public of Serbia, and I hope for the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27921	I ask the service to record that in the voting day it is voiced that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I did not warn Velimir Ilic. I also ask that I add another injury, that I also hurt the Rules of Procedure because I did not warn Verice Radet because she insulted the minister. So I'm asking you to stop both injuries. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27922	Mr. Chairman, I'm also advertising a breach of Article 104. I remind you that an hour ago I also advertised an injury to the minister, when he said MPs were saying things. You've seen in this speech, Ms. Radeta explained the Minister's speech quite extensively. The scariest thing in the whole story is that MPs of the ruling coalition gave him a round of applause. And if it's from them, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27923	I ask the service to see this as a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in the day of the vote. Mr. Peneziche, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27924	Right after my speech, I volunteered for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not to condemn anyone, but to say how much the casting from the point of view affects the speaker. So you're not allowed to interrupt the speaker while he's at the pay phone. I lost one mistake, better said lapus lingu. I know that judges swear an oath here in the Assembly, and I mentioned the Hippocratic oath, so I apologize for the mistake. There will be such mistakes yet, confusion. Look what's going on. It's even getting into people's private lives. I've never done that, and hardly any of us do that. Whether someone is sleeping with a woman on her property, in her bed or in her house, on her bed, that should not interest, especially one minister. I think it's below the level of the minister. Every pass, especially a minister who has no right, he only has the right to listen and to answer, it's not delicious, it's not cultural. Therefore, here is only the goal of provoking the public of the SRS as much as possible and of the people saying yes, radicals are arguing. We don't fight, we just defend against attacks from all sides. If you are so strong, I would ask those who collect signatures to collect signatures and send God to stop this rain once, they are powerful, to heat the sun.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27925	The word is Mr. Cetrović. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? Whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27926	As far as possible, it is likely now that some football match is under way at the World Cup, that citizens watch this direct transmission and see who is Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Velimir Ilic. Is it possible? I knew him a lot better than you did, and Mr. Baralic knows him better than I do. Now to claim or deny what the minister said when he returned, that the works were here and there, and even that road from Studenica to Rudena, and yesterday, MP Baralic said he was in Studenica and what the villagers of that part told him. Now I have to take Minister Ilic to Popovica, Vrbo, where the bridge was reportedly repaired in February, that there is nothing of it and that I now deny him again. He's being denied the facts and the truth in King's Municipality. Entering private life, where anyone lives, talks first about the man, who that man is, and on the other hand he talks about him as a minister, and in a way he talks about the entire government, what kind of government he is. Different are the lives of people, where they chose to live, whether in their own home, rented or otherwise. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing to confirm that essence, a barbarous struggle for power, and at all costs for power, and not for the obligation and responsibility that the government carries both at the state level and at the level of local authorities. This is where Minister Ilic said he wasn't after the King, what he had there to look for. For forty-five days he was, all January and February, with a dawn from the ministry. Should I list his men? With limos, jeeps. Do I have to tell him where the meetings were, those who had nothing to do with the local elections, from Chačka, Užica, Novi Pazar, where the cafes, what limos they were, what the hell was that all about? Is that what we need to talk about? He thinks of those threats he referred to in the second round of the election campaign, when he asked them to spend it next to my house, that he could have scared me with it. No, I don't regret not being the president of the Kraljevo municipality, I knew many before which problems in the city, in suburban settlements and in the entire municipality, because I was born in the Adriatics in 1949, grew up in the Adriatics, finished high school in Kralje, graduated from Law School in Belgrade and returned to live and work in the middle. I know everything that was and how it was, I know now, but I'm sorry and sorry that such as he was able to fool a part of the citizens, to deceive them into investing allegedly a billion and a half dinars, and they're not going to invest any dinars, but they're going to rob additionally through the budget of the Royal Municipality, through the municipality of public enterprises, citizens of the Kingdom municipality, and no problem will be solved. There won't be any funds. What the minister is talking about here, the Ibar Highway towards the mouth, now towards Kragujevac, should he say again that these are the obligations of the Ministry of Capital Investments and the Road Directorates. Whose assets is he spending here? He will also have to file accounts, Jocic and others for 300m euros in loans for the last two years. The National Assembly gave counterguarantee. How much budget funding? How much of the Road Directorate's own revenue? Do we have a report somewhere? Yesterday, as a national MP, I received a report from the government on work for 2005. We have several sides, 200 and some laws that have been passed in this congregation. It's a report on the government's work, part of the report. When the Rules of Procedure will be respected that the government sits in the front row and accounts for its work before the MPs, before the National Assembly, and that Minister Velimir Ilic on behalf of such a ministry that affects nearly a third of the Republic of Serbia's budget. When are the bills due? I've been well informed of the conduct of a tender in the King for the construction of a bridge. The man who works in the Planning and Construction Directorate of the Royal Municipality... The Bridge in time delivered the paperwork, and now I hear a story here that they're late, it was a car crash. Maybe now it's pressure and blackmail on those Bridge people to give up the tender, to get some people who just registered a company, have a purse and a bow and take 15% of the 200 million, which is the starting price of the bridge. Can the Minister answer me, for who knows which time I ask the question, we have officially in the report on the work of the Directorate for Planning and Construction of the Kingdom Municipality that the tour around Zica cost 90 million, although the report should not be in the report of the Directorate, are not the funds of the Kingdom municipality. In the election campaign last fall, it began with a 175m figure, so it came down to 135m, to officially cost 90m in the report, the price of these works. To answer why she's a half-pass, why she's not a bypass. It's a devastating solution to the King's Municipality. She has not singled out the Directorate, although it has entered the budget and the work programme of the Directorate for the past year, 21 million dinars. Don't lie and deceive, all you have to do is tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27927	According to the Rules of Procedure, Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27928	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Radeta said, and I would just confirm that there's some rule that drunk people shouldn't go for a pay phone. It is a basic rule that we should adhere to, and especially you as the chairman of the congregation at this time. The gentleman who used to be here, who presents himself as a minister, who looks like a drunk man, is actually a man, and I will be very moderate now, who has a foothold in his narrow family and attacked all the MPs here, insulted and told all sorts of nebulises and untruths. Thanks to such ministers as he and other scum who came to power after October 5th with phantoms on their heads, burning down the Assembly, destroying Serbian economy, banks, agriculture and everything else, no one can respect anything in this country anymore, because of such people. So they should look in the mirror, at least wash before they get here. That's why there's no state anymore, so you've done a coup these days, you've got to melt and you're always in debt to someone, you're always returning something to someone, you're holding onto the chair. He also said a few things: like, take care of our companies, about everything, he says – we worked hard to do "the Bridge". You've worked for Bridgebuilding, you've worked for Montenegro to stay, you've worked for a better life, you've worked hard to catch criminals, and all of Serbia knows what you've done, and everyone knows it, and they know it very well, you'll see very soon. Not to mention all the affairs, it's a small congregation day to mention all the affairs in which all the ministers are involved, honor the exceptions. He also said one thing, so I would warn him, he says -- if he got votes as much as Mr. Cetrovic is in his town, he wouldn't be in politics. I have to say, in all of Serbia, he's got 3%, he's not going to be Serbia, and now he's playing here, I don't know what. Let it go to the election if it's so strong and strong, you'll see what the people will say in those elections. Since he said that we fell from the dunes, we may have fallen from the pear, but we are not thieves like him, I would like to take a vote on the violation of the assembly's dignity by Minister Ilic in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27929	Otherwise, Mr. Dedjanski, I'm the chairman of the Assembly, I'm not a traffic cop and I'm not in a job description. It doesn't say that I control whether anyone has any alcohol in this assembly, I don't own an alcohol test, I don't care. It's mine to give my word here, when someone's exaggerating me to warn him, and also in advance, I do it all the time, ask all the MPs to mind what they say, because as they discuss how they get the answer from the other side. When I warn myself, I mean not only the MPs, but all the participants in this debate. Therefore, it is a matter of personal tolerance, and personal tolerance is not possible for the chairman to manage himself. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a People's MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I advertise Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not react while after this speaker Velimir Ilic insulted the MPs of the SRS and all other MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I want the Serbian Parliament to make a statement on this in the voting day. Now I'd like to explain my injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27931	Mr. Arsic, let me just ask you one thing, and that's that you're too late. I asked that in the day of voting vote that I hurt the Rules of Procedure by not taking a word to those who spoke here, and did not take care of what they were saying, but to add another request for a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27932	I hope that when it comes to voting, my fellow MPs will think well about which button they will press. Several years ago, even during the DOS, when 176 MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, those revolutionaries, were here, I have not yet seen anyone in a rougher way from the executive government, the minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or anyone else who is not a member of the People's Parliament address MPs in this way. I can understand that simply in this assembly debate someone might fall a little into the fire, he says perhaps some more difficult words, harder qualifications, but Velimir Ilic is not one of them. It's just his acting where he portrays himself as a great minister, as a great politician, and in fact he hides his ignorance and thieving, while at the head of the ministry. That's why he's acting like one of these speakers. And, as minister, if one of the MPs attacks him to work illegally, this speaker can use only for that, therefore, to say or to defend himself to work in accordance with the law, not to insult the MPs, first individually, even if it presents facts that are not true, and then insults the MPs of the SRS, believing that the Serbian Parliament has lost credibility since the existence of SRS MPs. Then he insults all of you, because you have become MPs in the same way as the MPs of the SRS, which is in the elections. And it is fortunate that Velimir Ilic does not wonder whether there will be SRS MPs in this assembly again, and I am sure of that, and there will be more than 126 of them. Neither Vela Ilic, nor that Dinkic who closed banks across Serbia, can close the SRS so easily. You'll see in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27933	Mr. Albianic, you for the replica? Excuse me, Rules of Procedure, then the replica. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27934	Velimir Ilic insulted me personally, insulted the MPs of the SRS, and what he said actually offended all the MPs, because he said that the dignity of this National Assembly was very, I don't know how it was expressed, broken, I think, he said, since you were in the National Assembly. I was under the impression that he was referring to all the MPs. Of course, I don't share that opinion. He personally insulted me for bringing up some insinuations concerning my personal life, wondering where I came from. I wasn't born in Cačka, but the Serbian citizen did, and the fact that Velimir Ilic is disturbed by Serbs who are not born in Serbia, it is indeed his problem and did not show it for the first time, he shows it continuously in his politics. I would ask you, Mr. Angelkovic, to explain to me, just don't interrupt me, but when I finish, how could you take away my word from me, because you just said that you asked the National Assembly to plead that you hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't take away the word from me, the MPs who spoke offensively about the Minister. You, Mr. Angelkovic, had no business basis to say that, nor to take away my word. According to article 107, the confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two measures of warning. You didn't tell me one thing, let alone two measures of warning. Maybe I'd be scared after your first warning, so moderately withdrawing from this pay phone, maybe I'd also challenge the measure of taking words and getting away from the session, but you fooled the public when you just said that there were conditions for me, the MP of the SRS, to take away the word. I'm asking you to apologize to the public for this, to learn the Rules of Procedure, and if you're sorry you can't watch the game, because you just said there's an important game to play, then either interrupt the session or bring in another vice president or president. Of course, I ask, regardless of your answer, that the National Assembly in the voting day declares whether you have injured in this case, Velimir Ilic, member 104 and you member 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27935	Thank you. Please take a look at the stenogram. I wasn't talking about taking your word from you, but I was talking about voting whether I broke Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Mrs. Radeta, don't throw away, I didn't use the term "spoiling words" because it doesn't belong to my vocabulary, and in particular, I am a strict opponent of punishment by article 107; on the contrary, I asked the Assembly to vote on whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure in Article 104 because there were words here that were not worthy of this parliament. So it doesn't matter which side, but it matters that there have been words that haven't been worthy of this class in the last half hour. In Article 104, as you know, therefore, it is very precise that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to address one another with respect and not to be allowed to use offensive expressions, nor to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of MPs. So these are facts, but also, I don't want to interrupt people, or take away their word, and especially punish them, or do it these three years, or in the future. Everyone in front of the public will answer for their own words. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miloljub Albianic, i.e. the replica. Otherwise, notice: the match Spain - Ukraine and, of course, it is important for those watching, Mr Albianic says it is a result of 2:0.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27936	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, I have the right to the replica, and it refers to the exhibition of half an hour ago, Mr. Cevrovic. I would like to say, for the sake of the public, and this is the following: in an inappropriate way, a prominent member of G17 plus from the King and member of the G17 Plus Jovan Nesovic, who is responsible and honorably doing his job as manager in the Kingdom, and indeed with great energy, is trying to solve citizens' problems. I will not go into further controversy, nor is that my goal, but it certainly is not good to treat a prominent man from the King, and the Royals know him and I think it was my turn to answer for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27937	Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups... (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: "What about me?" Didn't you just talk? I've called you as a National MP. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I spoke according to the Rules of Procedure. Well, if you want to talk, it's not a problem, you have as much time as you want. I called you back then because you were in line as an MP, here you go, it's no problem, but I realized that you came by, that's because you were in order, and Mr. Cetrovic only answered to fill the time until you came and I did a favor to write it, even though you weren't there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27938	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic, for doing the public service of Serbia, for letting Mr. Cevrovic speak until I come, because there was really a reason for my colleagues to wait for me and for that time to come. Of course, it wasn't a waste of time, Mr. Cetrovic certainly brought out very important things for this speaker and it caused a malignant reaction in Velimir Ilic and everything that happened afterwards. Let me get this straight. You were obviously mistaken when you said you thought I was talking, so now you don't get the impression that you're doing something to me. I held the Rules of Procedure in my hand, and here I was in fear when Velja Ilic returned, I thought she wanted to beat me, so I shouldn't have turned to you out of fear, not to get beat up by Velja Ilic, and then at the end of that presentation, I asked the National Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so it was perfectly logical that it should have been understood that I was speaking in the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to make it clear that there was no confusion. I'm not going to talk in this part of my exposure about this head of the road mob, Velimir Ilic. That's what I'll do when we talk about the details of this law, but I just need a few notes to draw attention here to both Serbian MPs and the public. Velja Ilic boasts that his candidate in the King and Smedereva won, that is correct, and when we talk about it, it is not a regret that it happened. We are sorry that the citizens were mistaken, that they believed when Velja Ilic brought half of the Serbian budget to the Kingdom and to Smederevo, but Velija Ilic was wrong to inform the public that Velja Ilic thus deceives them and that she is lying to the citizens of Serbia. That's why the government candidate got his ears, so he was either sixth or I don't know which of the possible candidates. That's why in Bujanovac, the SRS candidate had twice as many votes as all Serbian candidates in Bujanovac. That's why the government's candidates will be in Raznje and Užic, but that's why. What else bothers Veli Ilic? Which he failed to trick citizens in the village of Trejak, who knows if he knows where the village is, even though he was there with the machines, so on Friday he said, "Here, this bagger will start working on Monday if you vote for the President of the Municipality of the Government of Serbia, and if not, I return this machine somewhere else." Imagine, he really took that machine off Monday. So Velimir Ilic has the money of Serbian citizens. As for his remarks whether our colleague Miljko Cevrovic lives in a house that belonged to his wife's family or belonged to his family, it is really irrelevant. Miljko Cetrovic is the host, and he and his family, and his brother lives on the property of Cetrović with his family. On the property where Miljko Četrović lives, who really belonged to his wife, or her family, Miljko Četrović invested a lot of effort and work and made the estate worthy of a real host in the municipality of Kraljevo. Miljko Cetrovic can't happen to what happened to Velimir Ilic. Many of you may have watched that TV show when viewers were involved, it was during the election campaign, and then one woman said – Mr. Ilic, you are such a good president of the Cachak municipality that I suggest that one street in Cačka be called by your name. He smiled like that, here's Rajko Baralić laughing, knows what it was about, and Velja Ilic smiled in front of the cameras, thinks the woman appreciates him, and says, "What street would you call my name?" The woman says - any one of your houses you built by robbing the Chacans. It's Velja Ilic and I won't do it anymore, but I have a need and a commitment, because these days they're going through these very ugly insinuations of some, I really have to use again a term that's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I can't say any other way than the poor and the thieves, who are aware that they can't deal with the SRS in their minds or in their knowledge or in their honesty, and then they're going to lie, to defame, to insult, to slander the members and officials of the SRS. One such person here today made one big lie regarding Dragan Todorovic, the chairman of the SRS Executive Board, a lie that Dragan Todorovic was guilty of abuse of office, to protect himself by immunity from MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. I have brought the documentation today, and I am going to get to know Serbia's public in the shortest possible way, and, of course, the MPs to see what kind of MPs are sitting among us. First, I'm going to... C, c, c, it's really a real reaction, co-worker, just about to drop your gum. So, we have here the record number 2747/03 by Andonov Stojan of New Belgrade, Bulevar Mihajla Pupina No. 145/98, under the orders of the Second Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Deputy Prosecutor Branko Stamenkovic, and in the case of indictees Dragan Todorovic, Ratko Markevic and Zivordo Maksimovic. Here we have a few pages of the expert finding with all the details, I will certainly read it once and for all, because we will read, we will inform the public about this in the below, but I will now read the opinion of the expert who says – the expert is the opinion that there is no criminal responsibility for the defendants Todorovic Dragan and Marcetic Ratka of Article 245(2) and in relation to Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, because the account has been paid out for the dwellings and representations from the transferred funds of the ZTP Belgrade in the separate account of which payments have been made, does not therefore constitute the fact that the funds are being used against the Regulation on terms, criteria and method of using funds for regular and safe operation of rail traffic, and for the funds spent for drinking and thermal water and for making an idea project there is consent of the Government of Serbia, and payment has been made out of the paid funds of 0.35 dinars under the Oil Products Regulation, which have been paid into an account. For Maksimovic, too, there is no criminal responsibility, since the funds are not used against the Regulation on conditions, criteria and means of using the funds for regular and safe traffic. The expert's opinion is based on documentation in the case file, on an interview with inspectors and direct insight into the ZTP Belgrade documentation, as well as on a written explanation by the Belgrade ZTP professional service. So, ladies and gentlemen, do we need any more evidence to say that colleagues from this encrypted party, to cover up their thieving, are trying honest and honorable Serbian radicals to call the thieves? The result of this opinion and the findings of the experts and of the fully conducted criminal proceedings is a solution to the suspect Marcetic Ratko from father and mother, etc., an investigation initiated by the decision of the investigative judge number 60402 since 23 May 2002, etc., says the Second Public Prosecutor's Office. So this same solution should be done, but it should also be given Dragan Todorovic. As far as this pay phone is concerned, lies have been told that Dragan Todorovic has been hiding behind the immunity of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which is, of course, the poorest brutal lie. There is also a report by the Committee on Immunity Issues of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, where more requests were discussed at a session of June 10th 2003 on the immunity of MPs Zoran Šamija, Ljubisa Jovasevic, Dragan Veselinov, Nada Kolundžija, Vladan Batic, Slobodan Orlic, Dragan Todorovic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and all MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly voted for the survival of immunity, i.e. to remain immune to all these MPs for the crimes they were prosecuted for. Here's the complete material so I don't bother the entire assembly now. And it says that when it comes to Dragan Todorovic, one vote was against it; Dragan Todorovic voted to remove his immunity, because Dragan Todorovic, as well as any Serbian radical, has no single reason to hide behind immunity. What Miljko Cetrovic said here this morning, if it were true that Dragan Todorovic had committed some crime, he would have been in prison a long time ago, because your intention was after October 5th not to put you in jail but to kill. That, unfortunately for you, of course, went wild; you thought that all possible criminals and thieves were. Of course, that's what the members and some of the citizens who voted for you thought, because you convinced them, and you knew and your officials knew that they were thieves at the time of Milosevic's authority and that they continued to deal with thieves since October 5th. I really have to tell you for who knows which time – we Serbian radicals can't be like you, and thank God we're not like that, and we'll never threaten our political opponents, but who knows what time I repeat, we threaten thieves and criminals. Thieves and criminals from the Serbian government, both the previous and the previous, so both Kostunica, and Zivkovic and Djindjic, beware, after the next elections, when Serbian radicals are managed by the state, thieves and criminals will go to prison. We're not going to scare a bear with a grate, we're going to do concrete things, of course not government, but competent authorities, prosecutors, law enforcement, judicial authorities. It will be what we ask of these organs and no one from the executive authority will ever affect those organs and we will never use lies like you do. So, after what I've read, it means, by the court expert of the established facts that Dragan Todorovic is not responsible for any crime, I hope you'll stop chattering to distract your thieves. If you don't, don't worry, we have files for anyone who's really a thief and a criminal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27939	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, cheers. Yeah, she toasts herself with a glass, not a drink, that's fine. So, I certainly welcome once again your position on the division of power. Whoever comes to the elections will ask those authorities who are not executive authorities to take certain measures and will in no way influence them. I hope everyone understands that. Now, I think everyone will be very happy because of the obligations they had to understand: the 16th item of the agenda is the Bill on Gender Equality, which was submitted by a group of 15 MPs on 16 May 2006. Because of the importance of this law, the speaker of the assembly insisted and MPs suggested that it be immediately on the agenda of this assembly. A large number of amendments have arrived. Obviously, those who have given amendments know how important it is to resolve this issue. Accordingly, in order for the law to comply with all the requirements without extending the course of this session, MP Nadica Momirov's representative confirmed to me that a group of 15 MPs is withdrawing from the agenda this law, so that those who were preparing for the debate, please, from this session... What? I apologize, it is important to say that the procedure is withdrawn, it will return to the procedure after the agreement, in order for the law to be further in line and in line with all the requirements that both MPs and other interested organisations have made. So those who have been preparing will have no need to continue with those preparations. Since the lists of parliamentary groups (returning to the current agenda) are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We move on to a common principle search of the 14th and 15th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ENERGETIC COMMUNITY BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND ALBANIA, CROATIAN, BJRM, BLACK GORE, ROMANIA, SERBIA AND THE IMPLEMENTION OF THE UN ON THE COSES AND OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA KFW BY JP EPS ( FOR HE BAJINA BASTA) I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I agree, if you agree, since this is the third time today's finding, that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" (rehabilitation of HE Bajina Basta). Do any of the proposing representatives, Radomir M. Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy or Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want a word? Yes, Minister Naumov. Before that, just once again to remind you, please, after this finding that I just announced, that means, who did not follow in the afternoon work or was not present, today we will only work until the completion of the united principle debate on these two points of the agenda, which means at the same time that tomorrow we will discuss the 17th, 18th and 19th points of the agenda. When we're done with these principle debates, if we finish tomorrow, and I assume that by the number of members that these legal proposals have, or the report of the Committee of Auditors, there will be no session on Friday. The follow-up will take place on Monday at the beginning of the debate on the details of the first item of the agenda. Thank you all for your patience. Here you go, Mr. Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27940	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we need to discuss and discuss the law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. I have a very pleasant duty to say a few words about that contract and that law today. The treaty on the formation of an energy community is the first international-legal binding contract the state of Serbia has concluded with the European Union. On the one hand, the European Commission, or the European Union, is on the other hand located nine countries in the Southeast European region. The treaty on the formation of an energy community is a fruit of long preparations, a result of a process that has lasted for the past ten years, which includes the European Commission and the Stability Pact of Southeast Europe, institutions that support the development of the energy sector throughout Europe and the country of this region, based on similar experiences when the European Union and the community were established, when one coal producer community formed and, in a similar way, resolved the fundamentally indirect and political disputes resulting from the Second World War, led to stability and prosperity in Europe in a similar way after the violent developments on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. Both the international community and all the successor countries here create a single contract, create a common market that will practically connect to the European Union market and we get an energy market that covers the space from Turkey to the Baltic and from Russia to the Atlantic. It is also good news that last week in Luxembourg, at a meeting of the EU Council of Ministers, 25, where energy ministers were presented in these European countries and ministers in charge of the same area in the countries of Southeast Europe, already started talks on implementing the Energy Community Treaty on a fully equal basis. It was then announced that the Treaty was officially in effect on 1 July of this year, as the Treaty was ratified by the European Commission on the one hand and by six signatories of the treaty on the other. It remains to ratify Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. When this whole process is over, I can really say with pride that it is something that shows and proves that we have become a key factor in this part of Europe and a very important factor for Europe as a whole. The first and most important conditions in the world today, especially in Europe, are security of energy supply and reliability. The Energy Community Treaty foresees this very moment, that the creation of a single energy market, which is otherwise interconnectively and technically connected in a single continent that works perfectly, creates conditions for the security of supply of so-called. network energies, therefore, electricity and natural gas. It is particularly important for Serbia, because it is in such a position that it has eight energy borders, that it is very interesting from the point of view of future interconnections and investments, that it is we who serve as both a bridge and a future transit energy country in terms of natural gas. We can connect or plan to connect, that is, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, to Osijek on one side, to build a southern arm, gas arm in Serbia from Dimitrovgrad to Nis, a highway pipeline, later gasification of all Serbia, to expand from Nis as a hub of gasification towards Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro, to the south towards Leskovac, further west towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. That makes us a very important factor. Not to mention the electrical system and the network, that we were part of that system of association until the '90s, so these acts of war made it break down and fall apart, so that a year ago we too could join that community of European interconnections. So, the Energy Community Treaty gives us several elements. First, for the first time in practice, it is happening that the countries signatories of this Treaty take over the full legislation applicable in the European Union countries on energy, environmental protection, investment, market behaviour, renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and the introduction of energy efficient technologies. This will lead to, of course, more energy consumers being able to choose their energy supplier since 2008, and so on. Qualified customers, and households and extensive consumption from around 2015 will be able to choose their energy supplier. There's a big job ahead of us. There are still many challenges and, of course, still needed normative and broader work, especially in the area of social issues, because these events will certainly have certain such implications. But I must repeat that we future members of the energy community have become practically part of the European Energy Community and thus, regardless of when and whether political Serbia will join the European Union, Serbia's energy is now part of the Union, because this is practically the form of a pan-European energy market. As part of this, significant investments are also needed. Membership in this Treaty gives us these opportunities. We will practically use it intensively in both gasification and electricity in the future. Among other things, it is very important that our energy companies prepare to be equal participants in a future match on the market and in Europe at all. Among other things, it is very important that our potentials, our capacities are rehabilitated and, as you know, today in electricity the situation is practically the best in the last 20 years, that very reliable and secure energy supply, quality energy and that our capacities, our power plants, our plants are rehabilitated. It's also planned to build new ones. All of these require funding, and among other things, we will have co-operation and assistance from the energy community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27941	I would like to inform you that representatives of these agenda points are authorised: in front of the SRS parliamentary group Veroljub Arsic, in front of G17 plus Milka Silajev and in front of the SPS Dragan S. Jovanovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27942	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, two points of the agenda that we are working through this united debate today, and I have the impression that what the minister said is kind of pleasant to us today. I've recorded two sentences from the Minister's presentation, I find them important, and they're based on them to say just a few things. The first is that this contract that we signed is the first international-legal binding contract Serbia has signed with the EU. The second finding is that we have become a key factor in energy in this part of Europe, and generally throughout Europe, not to say some factor, but an inevitable factor. The ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of Southeast Europe should, in fact, be seen through this formation of an energy community as one consistent phenomenon that is in line with our state strategic definition, which is the EU accession. Practically, this could also be interpreted as a predecessor or a ticket to that family in the realm of energy. It should also be said that, thanks to this EU approach, it is through this sectoral approach that it allows individual countries to access this community and long before the formal conditions for joining the Union create for us as a country certain benefits which are currently linked to the energy sector, and secondaryly or consequently certainly have positive effects on all other branches that are very interesting to us. What's interesting is what our position is now and in what sense is it being corrected by looking at membership in this energy community? Some optimistic attitudes even suggest that we have a chance to fight for a leadership position in this part of Southeast Europe, as far as energy is concerned. Whether she's a leader or not might not be crucial right now, but what's important? I want to remind you here of a few things that I think are facts. The first fact is that we, in general, had two phases in terms of restructuring and creating one basis for the energy sector, conditionally speaking. When I talk about this, I'm talking about the period since 2001. The ministry that led energy in the first three years is objective, and this is how I choose words, a lot of wandering, without a clear and consistent policy, with certain attitudes that have been trying to represent ourselves as an extension or as a transmission of European initiatives. Obviously, they did not understand the energy needs well, nor did they understand the ways of the possible development of energy in this country, so objectively in this part, in this sense, and we did not produce any particular results. Secondly, I would like to remind you that two years ago when we adopted the Energy Act here, the SPS parliamentary group had an amendment to the law. These amendments concerned two things and these are two issues that I want to point out at this moment as essential to the status of energy in Serbia. The first question is the issue of structure, and the second question is ownership. And now I'm going to repeat what we often point out, which is generally our programming definition, which is that we're pushing for energy that will be structured as a vertically integrated state-owned system. When I say state property, it doesn't mean that we are opposed to every form of privatisation, even vice versa, but in state property that will provide the property package with a minimum of 51 percent. This policy will also be based on all our further activities as parliamentary groups in this assembly. I recall again that before 2003, the government represented in many segments the view that it should go into a horizontal restructuring and, as a consequence, total sales by segments of parts of energy, so let's say that domestic production and domestic conditions are so bad that, in some parts, it should be closed down, abolished and transferred to the supply of energy exclusively from imports. The fact that today we are discussing the ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of Southeast Europe and our position in that community is in the best way denying the views I am talking about, as far as the former government is concerned. Why did I mention the amendments we proposed to the Energy Act, which, unfortunately, were then not accepted by the majority in this assembly? In the meantime, it was obvious, listening to European tones, whether there were any retardations in attitudes, whether we now understand these views better, nor can I, nor do I want to get into this situation, but obviously that what the European Commission is now representing, and what we have heard from the European Commissioner indirectly, is that there is a view that they believe that countries should resolve this issue more or less autonomously. The European Commissioner's recommendation is that the Member States of the energy community should be managed, they say, by best European practice. We also said in 2004, that the best European practice in this, I repeat, is a vertically integrated system with majority state ownership and that those countries that have experimented and started some other ways of restructuring are slowly returning to these principles. Mr Minister, if I wanted to use a little more time, I could say that as a member of the SPS parliamentary group, I am glad that the European Commission has come to our views. It took two years, though, but good. That's better than continuing in previous attitudes. We know that some countries, meanwhile, have also brought certain documents at the level of their governments that specify the future direction of movement in this area. In that sense, I think that in this Parliament, our parliamentary group will also initiate the adoption of a document, of course in line with the business opportunities, which should be the basis for the Government to bring, possibly through some sublegal act, a document that will more precisely define the issues I am talking about now, and I repeat that these are restructuring issues, the appearance of systems and ownership issues. I repeat, in this sense, we do not represent exclusively and binding 100% state property, although it is also a model that is present in some European countries, but we must not give up these fateful 51%. Why does it matter? I'm going to try on one small and short case, and it's about the second item of the agenda that we're discussing today, which is giving a guarantee for this KFW loan for the revitalization, that is, the rehabilitation of Bajina Basta. (President: Will you use another 10 minutes? Yes. I would remind you of something that Minister Jocic said the other day when he gave the opening statement before the debate on the ID law. At that time, he said something that I think shocked a good part of the MPs, that sometime in 2003 the government gave 100m euros for some equipment and for staff training, and it was supposed to serve to make ID cards. We then gave as a state 100m euros for a job that wasn't even looking, the law was not even passed at the time. I'm not going to analyze that. Some elite economists, as well as those of the government, who are giving us talks on how to run the country, could explain today what it means to invest 100m euros in a job that has been frozen for three years and what the economic and financial effect of the job is. I mean extremely negative, but let's not get into it. I cite this example because I want to oppose him for today's debate on 30m euros that we practically need to guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW for a credit arrangement. Why should these funds be used? I can tell you that Baja's garden rehabilitation is being prepared as follows. It has been spoken of since 1990, so studies, idea projects, final eligibility studies, detailed projects have been carried out, the Energy Project has been hired as an institution to do all of this; then we gave all that documentation to financial organisations, so we got the approval of these funds, so KFW appointed a consultant to deal with it. What I'm saying is that one of the most serious approaches to this job is that these funds will be used to rehabilitate four aggregates that are strategically important to this country. What the Minister said a little while, and I have to underline that too, is that electricity is a system that works in this country, and as little as we can hear about its work, it's just proof that he's doing well and that in a good and better way, he manages to invest and invest the funds we're talking about today. What are we going to get from that rehabilitation? We'll get reliable aggregates, we'll get a cheaper kilowatt-hour, because it's investing in revitalization, it's investing in raising the degree of usefulness, but not going to technical indicators right now. It can be seen quite easily. Baja's Garden is an impressive facility. The price of kilowatt-hour could be talked about for a long time and a specific cost, a real cost of production, but indeed the Assembly is no place for such a story. It is important that those funds invested in this revitalisation have an excuse for every cent to be invested, because in a very good and technically prepared way they work and organise the job. In the end, I want to say that this is how all the parameters of technical efficiency are raised, it should be respected and the state there must make its contribution in terms of helping such projects. However, reading the agenda made me realize that for this second point, the Ministry of Finance's rapporteur and I expected Minister Dinkic to be here, so I wanted to say something, just one sentence. What we're doing in the energy sector today has to get a response from that institution, I mean the Ministry of Finance. From Minister Dinkic in the previous exhibition, which had something to do with energy, I heard one sentence; he said that the overall financial behaviour of public enterprises in the energy sector affects macroeconomic stability and that is certainly how these are large systems, are significant for macroeconomic stability and in a positive, not only in a negative sense. In this context, it would be good for the Ministry of Finance to think a little bit about some elements of financial behaviour towards energy companies and the energy sector, first of all I mean salaries in the sector and human-stimulatives. We have a big problem in energy that young people who have turned 10 and 15 years of employment, who have been built, and it is not worth mentioning that such a practice aside from the primary cost of education, means getting a college degree, if not more but at least as much as it costs to train on specific equipment on energy facilities, which is really not comparable to any other industry in our terms. These are the footage we have to keep in every way, and, Mr. Minister, I would ask you to pass on that the Ministry of Finance has been asked to consider this seriously, in the context of the possibility, to behave accordingly. In the end, the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group will vote for both agenda points, ratification of the Treaty and guaranteeing a credit arrangement.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27943	The word is from MP Milka Silajev, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27944	Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a matter in which there should be absolute agreement between all MPs, matter where all the countries of Southeast Europe have reached agreement and where they all signed those contracts. I attended a consultation in Romania, a group of MPs from our House of Representatives, were MPs from other countries, and it is pointed to the importance of a job like this. This job is such that, whether we want it or not, Serbia could not be missed because it is on its way, and the orientation of this government and individual parties, not to say all, is precisely for this energy community to be formed. This law is important because it will enable us to help each other in the event of an energy loss in certain parts, and that is very important, there is a sense of mutuality in this space. If there is nothing else, let it be first about energy, and it is the source of life at the end, and later it will prove to be water and perhaps we will discuss such an agreement at this gathering. The European Commission launched the job in early 2002 and decided that it is a significant part of its resources that is engaged in the success of the open energy market process, as the most priority activities in the field of energy and European integration of Southeast European countries. The resolution of this area leads to a serious reform of the electricity sector. The European Commission, as the institution responsible for coordinating activities in this process, in co-operation with the countries of the region, set targets that are ambitious and normally go towards all other integrations, including the Stability Pact; and various donors from an international financial institution are included. To that end, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in Athens on 15 November 2002 by the SR Yugoslav Energy Minister. This memorandum expresses the political will of signatories to establish a regional electricity market in Southeast Europe on the principles on which this market is based in the EU and a new organisational structure of this process is formed. In order to realise the objectives and implement the provisions of the Memorandum, the Council of Ministers, the Standing Group at a high level and the Regulatory Forum of Southeast Europe for Electricity, etc. Athenian forum. On 8 December 2003, the Council of Ministers of Athens signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the regional energy market and its inclusion in the European Community's internal energy market, which includes, in addition to the electricity markets covered by the Memorandum, the creation of a regional gas market, as well as the requirements of the EU's Directive on the internal electricity market 2003/54 and Directive 2003/55. The memorandum, as before, is not an international binding act, but merely an expression of political will and ultimately the interest of a group of countries. The signing of the memorandum gave an additional incentive to prepare the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. The legal framework of the Treaty constitutes an EU regulation, which means that the parties assume the obligation to bring their legislation into line with the requirements and directives of the European Union relating to energy and environmental protection, which is very important, which is what we started to pay attention to, which has not been the case so far, and during 2004 and 2005 the negotiations took place and ended. After the final proposal of the Treaty was adopted by the Contract, the initialling of this proposal was carried out in March 2005. The process of establishing an energy community is a second name for the process of establishing the energy market of Southeast European countries and its subsequent integration into the internal energy market of the European Community as party to the Treaty, as well as other international energy organisations and integration, as well as other communities. Ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, and then its effective implementation, are of great importance not only to the success of the reform of our energy sector and its functioning according to the principles of the EU, but also to the overall process of European integration, not only of our countries, but also of other countries of the region. The contract offers a framework for energy co-operation between Southeast European countries, between them and EU countries, and facilitates transfer of experiences and harmonisation with EU requirements. Its implementation will strengthen our relations with the EU, as well as with countries in the region, which will be mutually beneficial for all parties to the Treaty and will allow stability and strong economic development, as energy is the driver of all relations and the overall development of society. Contracting parties agreed to establish between themselves the electricity market, i.e. natural gas, on the basis of common interest and solidarity, and this market can also be extended in the coming stages with other energy products and energy carriers. One of the important assumptions is the creation of a security system at the level of the region for electricity and gas. The Treaty should provide for countries to assist each other in the event of an energy crisis, I have already said. The Treaty is the cornerstone of European integration in the region, analogous to what happened in the EU in the past by establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, but at the same time a complex document, whose content will be changed and expanded by further development of EU energy legislation, as well as the functioning of the Energy Community institutions established by the Treaty, which should be fully operational after the entry into force of the Treaty. In the coming period, the Council of Ministers should take a position on the Bulgarian proposal to set up a regional energy information centre, which I always potential, because it is normal, as an energy community institution, based in Sofia. I am sure the Ministry of Mining and Energy will seek to propose that some of the institutions of the energy community are based in Belgrade. To achieve this goal, it would be necessary to demonstrate certain comparative advantages of our system and our proposal. The contribution of the Republic of Serbia to the very budget of the energy community would be paid out of the Republic's 2007 budget, which will be indicated, i.e. by the budget law and envisioned. According to an assessment obtained by the European Commission, the budget of the Republic of Serbia should provide a maximum of between 60,000 and 70,000 euros annually as a contribution to the energy community budget. The Council of Ministers, whose member and minister is responsible for the energy issues of the Republic of Serbia, will have full control over the purpose of the energy community budget and how these funds are spent. The Council of Ministers will adopt a procedural act specifically laying down the procedure for the implementation of the budget and for the presentation and audit of accounts and inspections. I especially insist that it really be one information system that will have one centre in Belgrade, but it is not only this area that needs such a system, but we need it in all ministries, for the work of all ministers. I was almost reading the government report, and I'm a little sad because I didn't find it, I didn't see our ministries trying to develop information systems within their work. Thank you, and we as G17 plus will support this law, which is normal for Serbia, and unfortunately, it is the last one in signing this contract, but that doesn't mean it won't be the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27945	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Of course, I support the appeal when it comes to this system, but I support the appeal more and more frequently than that system that allowed the discussions to be applied in writing. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27946	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard those who have proposed such laws, those who support the laws. All these two laws represent as some great success of the domestic government, our diplomacy, our exceptional geostrategic position, that in this way we will solve major problems in the country, not to be lagging behind for the EU, that in the environment we can be people who will be first in line, etc. The first thing to be seen when the title of the bill is read is that there are signatories of the country of Southeast Europe, the bill has been since May 5th, already at that time Montenegro considered itself a state, and this bill itself confirms that this government has not fought much to preserve the state union, because it does not write here either, according to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. When you look further, I agree, here geographically cannot be wrong, these are the countries of Southeast Europe, but I am asking one question – does this government care at all about Serbs who do not live in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia and Serbs living in Serbia's territory, but do they not enjoy the protection of their country? Bend your head, this contract may be more important to you than Kosovo, not to us from the SRS. When you signed a contract with Croatia, did you set at least one precondition for the rights of Serbs in Croatia and why the already displaced Serbs do not return? Smile, Mr. Salesman, it may not matter to you, it is important to us from the SRS. Why didn't you insist on returning to electricity in all the settlements where the Serbs lived? Could you have conditioned it when we were so important that nothing in this matter could happen without us? No, it doesn't matter to you. Croatia appears to be creating a picture of itself as a democratic state, where everyone enjoys civil rights. The fact is, it's not true, the fact is that the real situation is being covered up, and by signing these contracts, you support it. You're saying this contract was made for 10 years. I think the most intense thing has been going on since October 5th. The result of intensive preparation for this contract is the price of electricity. Then you said that the electricity price at the time was unsustainable, that the cost of cost was much higher and that because of this much higher cost of costing, we had to take the people's skin off their backs. Even then Minister Kori Udovici said – if people have no money to pay for electricity, they should sell their apartments. Was he at that point a more important citizen who was poor or a contract like this? You've defined yourself as a contract. That's the problem you paid for in the December 2003 elections, and you're just going to pay for the next election. You forgot everything you promised in the election campaign when you formed this government, and once again you also made those promises that you made when the government was formed again when the government began to function. There's talk here of ownership of the power system. I agree that the electricity system should remain in the majority ownership of the Republic, but it seems to me that in many parts you are late. It is in those you are talking about and in these countries with which you signed a larger private capital contract that comes from Serbia, which is not under our control, that has purchased certain power lines and that is very strategically important for the Republic of Serbia. Should we say who rented it? Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic. That's what you know. They're already controlling our power system. He can't go in Serbia anymore and get out of Serbia without them setting us up. We want to go back to Serbs living in Serbia and not enjoy the protection of the state? I don't know if you're gonna find that funny, too. You signed a contract with the UN Interim Mission in Kosovo. How much, gentlemen, and you here, at least declaredly, jumped that there was no electricity in some Serbian settlements; did you wonder when you signed that contract? Have you conditioned that Serbs in Kosovo are not second-class citizens, that they live in Serbia, that they must have electricity? Were you prepared even to at least declare that the Republic of Serbia paid those debts to some distribution that exists in Kosovo and which exploited our energy plants. What kind of answer did you get? From that, there is nothing until the Serbs sign contracts with Kosovo's distribution. One of the conditions is to accept their plates, their ID cards, to give up Serbia. When you were thinking about this contract, it wasn't important to you again. We now have a contract here, which is the first written document between the Republic of Serbia and the EU that is binding. What's the price? The price is quite high, to start with the least damage, the increase in electricity prices, to one rather serious – that you did not protect Serbs who do not live in Serbia, territorially, and that you did not protect Serbs living in Serbia, but do not enjoy the protection of the state. Let's get back to this Baja Garden guarantee. Technically, we can discuss whether such an investment is necessary first for that hydrocentrale and whether, if necessary, it was therefore necessary to assign the state. Here, we have heard the example that the former government of Zoran Zivkovic has spent a hundred million dinars on some equipment that allows the government of the Republic of Serbia to monitor citizens at all times. I'm interested in how much the ministers from that government have earned, but you haven't given us an answer yet, and I think you can, if you will. It has been paid from some budget sources, and now we owe the state 30m euros. To make things a little more tragic in this whole story, Baji's Garden has already been a problem in the Republic of Serbia for a long time, not because of its technical capacities, possibilities, modernisation, but rather because of certain abuses. (President: You'll use the other 10? I'll use another 10 minutes. So, during the completion of the job for these two thieves Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, who forced them to influence their connections to the EPS that the electricity that was to be delivered to Bosnia and Herzegovina delivered to Serbia from Bulgaria and because it was then a subdued consumption in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. consumption was less than imported electricity and those which the capacities could produce, this very Bajina Basta developed its accumulation through its beautiful fields, and this money was bought by these power lines that were around us or their lease for 10, 15 and 20 years. Now that we're in a situation like this, even though this Serbian Parliament Survey Committee has proven unequivocally... Although we are arguing about the report, it was reportedly supposed to be an audit house that will confirm the report. The audit house has never been hired, the report has never been confirmed, and these two hoodlums and thieves remain at large and still with the same money that has been made available by various malfeasances to blackmail the Republic of Serbia. Why this government did not then, as it did in the case of Bogoljub Karic, means when a criminal began to destroy power then it was possible for the state to intervene, and when these two criminals continue to do their job in an illegal manner, the state did not react. The question arises who from the state is working with them. Here, you no longer need to protect the state community under the pretext – there is no need to spoil relations in the state community because of Vojin Lazarevic, so let him get away with it, the more important is the state community. There's no state union now, and you've abolished it. So, what are the reasons why the state doesn't simply protect its interest, why don't they start proceedings against those two under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Criminal Procedure Act, etc.? You have the right to have all the property that has been illegally acquired and confirmed by the verdict, meaning by a judicial verdict, you have the right to take that property wherever it is in the world. So you finish that job, don't put the state in debt anymore, especially when you have ways to get what was taken from the state back to the state. Obviously, you have no intention of doing so. I fully understand the situation, especially Mr. Minister, and at that point he was in power when it happened and it seems to me that these are, among other things, the reasons why certain people still cannot be available to justice. As far as these two draft laws are concerned, the SRS will vote against these laws, because first of all, when it comes to this law, you forget some other interests other than energy, which may be more important at this point. When it comes to this law, what you've allowed the state to be robbed, the price of electricity is also quite high, so you can perform from real sources that revitalization of the system. In particular, we don't trust you when you look at Article 3, Article 4. I'd like someone to explain to me why it says so in the law. Article 3 says – the loan is paid by the EPS at the expense of KFW, in euro. Loan funds will be provided by the borrower from its own income. The borrower shall be obliged to provide funds for the repayment of the loan according to the payment plan for each withdrawn tranche, in the amount involving the principal, commission on the undrawn part of the loan, guarantee costs and accompanying costs. In the next Article 4, there is a conflict. It means: "The borrower is obliged to pay annual amounts, in dinar equivalent, to the remaining amount of loans, in accordance with the contract of Article 2 of the Law, for the purpose of disbursement of favourable interest terms of loans. The borrower is obliged to make payments under Article 1(1) to the budget fund for financing primary environmental measures in the energy sector, which will be managed by the ministry responsible for mining and energy affairs. "Now, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs who will support this bill, I'm very interested to know if you're going to ask yourself why the funds received on the basis of some loan are not returning to the borrower, but are paying some special bills to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27947	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is there anyone else who wants a word from the authorized representatives or the president? (Frislav Peric: How long do we work? Please, until the end. And you weren't following, I'm sorry, I thought you were joking. Correctly, we must give each other notice. We're working until the principle debate on these two laws is over. I'm about to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is compatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written statement, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, three speakers. So, after the presentation of these three speakers, but you're right, you need to give a notice... I would like to be given the names of these two later from this unequivocally established report that everyone is arguing about. Thank you. First, the People's Messenger Verica Radet will have the word, then the People's Messenger Milan Vesenović, and the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27948	Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about two draft laws. It is one on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW under the mandate of the JP "Electropriority of Serbia", and the other is a bill on ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, BJR Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and the UN's provisional mission in Kosovo in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. You heard from the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Arsic, who are all the crucial reasons why the SRS cannot vote for these government proposals. I'm just going to tell you that we have submitted certain amendments to these laws, and to this second proposal to ratify the treaty, not to read all these states. We have expressed our principled position that this law should not be passed, and we always express that attitude by amendments when we ask each of these members of the law to be deleted. I fully and deliberately explain this because some of our fellow MPs, who do not know what the function of the MP is, often go public with claims that parliament would be much more efficient and much faster working if there were no amendments to the SRS and, of course, we are often complaining about amendments where we are asking for an individual erasure of each member of the bill. For the sake of the public, I want to explain what it means when we say that every member of the law should be deleted, including the last member who says the law is published in the Official Messenger, etc. It is simply because we think that such a law should not exist at all in legal traffic in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, concerning the rehabilitation of the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant, we did not go here with that kind of amendment because we have nothing against, at least in this way reasoned, taking this loan, if the intention is really as planned here, but we have submitted one amendment to Article 4 where we asked that member to be deleted because it is contrary to Article 3. I don't know, Minister, have you and your associates seen what the point is? I think it would be a good idea for that amendment to be accepted. So, basically, we don't mind and we wouldn't be against this guarantee, just if this form were to be fulfilled, provided for by our amendments. This Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and all these republics is something that we cannot accept in the SRS. A colleague, Arsic, spoke of several aspects and several reasons why this is unacceptable to us. But here's a very interesting question. We have asked that question to the Minister and the Government in the light of all our amendments. It says here it is about establishing an energy community, including the Republic of Montenegro. Our question is - who in the Government of the Republic of Serbia knew on 4 May 2006 that the Republic of Montenegro would be independent and that the referendum would end as it ended? Minister, don't smile. This is too serious. I have read the argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why the amendment has not been accepted; this explanation is quite unambiguous and such an explanation can be written by someone who understands absolutely nothing. You know, if you've sent this to the MPs who are also educated, smart, they know they're thinking with their heads, then really don't play with us. And those of you who smile that we are smart and educated, if you will, we can compare diplomas, dear colleagues, as far as education and officially completed schools are concerned. As for broader education, knowledge of this matter and all other matter, as far as brains, vispresence etc., don't try to compete with us, it really can't compare, you know, we're Serbian radicals. Furthermore, what's interesting is what the minister here said was the first binding contract. I don't know why you boast about it and what you can boast about if this is the first of the binding contracts under these various contracts under integration into the European Union. If you have achieved nothing as government so far, it would have been really better if you hadn't done this either, because this contract means what you said and yourself when you promised the citizens of Serbia a month or two ago in public and said that you are very proud to be the minister who, after the conclusion of this contract, will, of course, paraphrasise you, introduce the economic price of energy into Serbia. Minister, that's not good. It is not good because in Serbia, unfortunately, there is no one to pay the economic and European price of energy. I suppose you in the government are communicating, no matter how unemployed you are in Serbia, by the parties, but I assume that from time to time you talk and that colleagues who follow other areas tell you how unemployed there are in Serbia, how low there are in Serbia, how many citizens living below the existential level, how many closed factories there are, how small pensions are. Minister, with all these parameters threatening citizens at the economic cost of energy, at the very least it's unserious. I gave you a joke earlier, and now I'm telling you seriously that this is what Cory Widowsky did when she was a minister, so she told the citizens that if they can't pay for electricity, they sell apartments, they pay for electricity. If they listened to Kori Widowsky then and sold out the apartments, I don't know what they're going to sell now to pay for your electricity. Perhaps you will recommend selling kidneys to pay for electricity, since, unfortunately, we often have such headlines in the paper that citizens are offering to sell their kidneys because of certain obligations to the state, in order to pay some of the commitments they have to the state budget. Every day, Serbian citizens are threatened by the press to move Elektrodistribution with scissors towards rioting payers from this amount to some amount there. You can't do that, Minister. Of course, we know that citizens should meet their obligations; unlike some who were your coalition partners, we never invited citizens to civil disobedience. When we were against some imposition, tax and collection, we used to say that about a congregation pay phone, but we never told the citizens not to pay their dues. We're not telling citizens now that they're not paying for electricity, but I'm telling you, Minister, citizens have nothing to pay for electricity from. This is the government's problem, or at least it should be the problem of the government of the Republic of Serbia. If this is one of the conditions of the European Union, I would like to ask you – when you accepted this condition, and I assume that you negotiated on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did you say gentlemen in the European Union what is the condition of Serbia towards the European Union? We know well, they know, and you know, that the European Union is strategically interested in Serbia, for our strategic positions, and to join those integrations they set us up with various conditions, you accept them, and much more than you are often asked for, but I would like to hear that someone from the government of Vojislav Kostunica has told us in these talks – we will accept, gentlemen from the European Union, all of your conditions, but we expect you to accept a single condition of Serbia, which is Serbia's territorial integrity, which means Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. It might be good to recommend to your colleagues who are talking this way and to let the EU know what our priority is and that because of Serbia's territorial integrity, we are ready even for such concessions. If they're just going to ask us for these things and continue to bring our citizens into poverty and poverty, then I don't even know what the role of the government is, or what this government is going to do to the citizens of Serbia, especially since today the citizens of Serbia, I have to remind them again, they don't actually have a state. Because there was a coup in this country, some people who were not elected ministers were sitting in the government of Serbia, because no law on amending the Ministry Act was passed in this House. Serbia has no defence ministry, Serbia has no foreign ministry, but they sat with you, whether or not, Mr. Naumov, Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic. Who introduced them to the government's session, what they were doing there, in which role you'll really have to explain it to the citizens in the extraordinary parliamentary elections. When you explained these two government proposals, Minister, you said this was one of the good news. I really don't know what made you so thrilled, which is good news. When you concluded this treaty on the establishment of an energy community between the European Community and all of these republics, did you ask the Republic of Albania why they would interfere with our country and our internal policy through the Shiptara in Kosovo and Metohija; did you ask your colleagues from Croatia if they were going to sit at the table and discuss the release of Republika Srpska, which they occupied; did you ask your colleagues from BiH how long they would hide the number of killed Serbs in Sarajevo? Minister Naumov, you've had a lot to ask them, and it would be good to have. When all these things were cleared up, we could talk about a contract like this. You really have no reason to be proud that this is some first official, as you say, binding contract. Once again, I inform the citizens of Serbia that this first binding contract means an increase in energy prices, and how they will pay for it, may God help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27949	The People's MP Milan Veseinovic will have the word, so Rodoljub Gačević will have it. Before that, by Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, where it is the responsibility of the president to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies, I warn all those paid by Serbian citizens, through the National Assembly's Office, who work as secretary of the working bodies, they are obliged to assist committees, MPs and parliamentary groups. If MP groups want, and they clearly say, to put into the knowledge of the need, they use their right on the basis of which they represent citizens, that a law in general is not adopted and that they want to put it through the amendments, instead of spending the money of Serbian citizens, it is an obligation for these employees to draw attention to the fact that it is possible by one amendment, and not to insult the MPs, and that they are completely, without any reason, although they have a clear political stance and, in doing so, they are sufficiently reasonable, spending both money and time and propose amendments that are deleted individually by each member, through a whole series of amendments. There's no need. In line with that, here you go, Mr. Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27950	Mr. President, I have answered the Rules of Procedure, and also to ask one parliamentary question, perhaps the minister, and perhaps the competent services, to give a reasonable answer to this question, and is it by law that distribution accounts for interest on consumers? So that I don't owe and explain what's better for the distribution of whether to charge the principal, there's other means, so whoever doesn't pay the electricity can get shut down. If it's a stable time, if money doesn't pay much off within the given time limit, I don't think there's any justification for calculating interest. Therefore, I hope that someone will answer this question. So, by what law, distribution can account for interest on citizens, i.e. electricity consumers? Is this law, if we sign a contract with countries in the environment, is there interest in these countries too? If we're going to make it bigger and bigger, I think we should follow up on it in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27951	Mr. Peric, if I understand correctly, do you want an answer to the parliamentary question? I have to draw your attention, a few days ago we were allotted to it, but once again. This is an emergency session. Under Article 168, during the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, parliamentary questions can only be asked if the motion for an extraordinary session provided for in its request. Since it is not, however, as it was a few days ago, and now we will ask for the service and will be delivered to you in the morning to check, unless the definition of the parliamentary question is clear. I ask you to keep this account and that we do not report to the Rules of Procedure, but through the application, as the previous speakers did, on the previous day, I think that Mr. Cetrovic used it, and someone from the MP group, to ask the question through the topic, because the minister is not in charge, and that is the key thing in this case, is not the Ministry of Energy. That's why I'm distracting you. Or try orally to respond. Of course, we'll ask the minister after the break. Also, there's going to be a little break by 18.05. [[After a break.]] We continue to discuss the principle of united agenda points. The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and the National MP Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27953	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs present, since we see that the MPs of the ruling coalition are gone, only a few of us are radicals, but there's the minister here...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27954	Please, you have no reason to insult the Assembly's dignity by providing incorrect information, and you also know that it is not necessary for all those attending the debate to be in the O.R. As you can see, if you look at it, there are MPs and one option and another, but it is more important that we do not share MPs in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27955	I didn't understand. In fact, I only see two MPs from the ruling coalition here. I apologize to the two of them, and you can see for yourself that the MPs of the SRS who are interested in this law and anyone who is on the agenda and normally discuss it and explain it. I don't think it's more important than these laws that affect all citizens of Serbia, especially this bill on energy and the energy system of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, like most of the laws that you have proposed so far, it concerns either some of the new commitments proposed by Mr. Finance Minister Dinkic, and now its rates go to Velimir Ilic, or someone joining the European Union or harmonising the law with the European Union, and Serbian citizens are becoming harder and harder to live from day to day. We can also see that from city to city, looking at many workers who don't know who to complain to, who to turn to. And when it comes to Serbia's energy system and Serbia's electricity distribution, it mainly has a monopoly in our country. They go after the short procedure, cut the wires, and thus the citizens of Serbia remain without electricity throughout our country. We can see for ourselves every day. It is immediately the proposal for a bill proposing ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the countries of Southeast Europe, but it is the eyes of the Republic of Montenegro, and then Serbia and the UN's Interim Mission in Kosovo in accordance with Resolution 1244. I have to ask the minister, the legislator of this law, since this law has been proposed earlier, means that they served as a frontline for the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, as my fellow MPs mentioned in the previous exhibition, but this conclusion of a contract with the UN's Interim Mission in Kosovo and Metohija, calls for Resolution 1244, as if we forgot what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija, which are citizens' problems, primarily non-Albanians, and most of all I think of Serbs who have experienced all the suffering and discrimination in the past two years by the same UN mission (or what we Serbian radicals call "occupiers"); that Serbs mainly in Serbian enclaves did not have electricity in the most difficult winter days when the temperature was below 15 degrees; that the state of Serbia, which mainly exported the currents to Kosovo and Metohija, could not find strength, nor have the conditions for the UN to provide the Serbs with basic energy, which is essential energy. Unfortunately, it did not even happen when the treaty was concluded between the Southeast European countries with the energy community. It should have been conditioned above all by this problem, and then signed these agreements with Albania, representatives of Kosovo and Metohija, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and others from our environment that do not think well of us, and this is also shown in the territory of Croatia where Serbs, or baptise them from day to day, do not speak of their genocide that they have made over the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia. I think it was humane and dignified by the state, the Ministry of Energy and Mining to prevent this kind of signing because of these relations between our country and the environment in which we live. Since Minister Naumov is here, I am from the end of the Ravish area, from Novi Pazar, watching for the last year and a half that some investigators of some American companies who unfortunately follow and encourage some of our energy and mining institutes from Belgrade are doing some of the greatest mineral wealth between Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Novi Pazar. These excavations have been done on Mount Rogoznica for over a year. I don't know who gave that consent. I know it's about the big money that's been invested in that space, there's no telling what the goal is, but I sure know they want to exploit our mines abroad, so they won't even process and process them in our Trepca or Zvecan, but I hear they're driving that ore treasure to Bulgaria and they're processing the ore there. I think it should be prevented or at least seen what our country's interest is to allow such a thing to these foreigners, especially the English and Americans who are traditionally bound to our mines, and it is no accident that the English have opened up the Trepce mine and that it is their strategic interest to draw our mines from that space. The law does not need much comment, if it is said in a statement by the minister that it is the first international binding contract, a normal contract already signed by the Serbian government, and that an international organisation, a European energy organisation, stands behind the contract. The question is what kind of ownership our energy system will be, above all, Serbia's Elektro-distribution and all our energy sources, as well as all the others. We Serbian radicals have always advocated that no one is against foreign investment in our economy, including the energy system, but that this relationship should always be kept at 51% in favour of the Serbian state, because it is the vital interests of the Serbian state, both in this energy field and in oil derivatives. If you have succeeded in this time, beginning with the government of Djindjic, then Zivkovic, and now yours, to sell out everything, if you sell out that energy system, NIS rip up a piece by piece, I wonder why you should then need the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it can be made a consortium of these foreigners who will buy our mining resources, natural resources and then they can form their own government, and we can be obedient or, as our people would say, the laces in all this. These praises that this is a success for the Ministry of Energy, that it will be better to supply energy, gas, that the pipeline will go from Bulgaria, Nis, and further towards Croatia, that we are equal participants in all of this, that after 2015 we will be able to get to that extent that our consumers will be able to decide for themselves who will supply them with energy and electricity, these are really commendable stories and these are stories for the pre-election campaign. I think that's what Minister Dinkic always mentions, and that's nice stories, but we can't get down among the citizens of Serbia and see how they live, whether they're able to pay for electricity, and how far that discrepancies will be in relation to the price of electricity and at all the standards and lives of Serbian citizens. I fear that with this signature and contract we will not harm and that the price of electricity is not much higher at European price, which cannot be matched by the standard of Serbian citizens. We Serbian radicals rightly doubt this and therefore say that this law is not justified and that we should not sign such a contract as it is, without previous conditions, to see what we will get as a state of Serbia and those citizens who do not live in the state of Serbia, but outside the state of Serbia. We remember those quasi-democratics who call themselves, remember, ′96-′97. For years, they urged Serbian citizens not to pay electricity and TV subscription. The same, you or your like-minded, are ruling Serbia today, and there is this usurper Vuk Draskovic, who made a coup, has entered into the government of Serbia, without the decision of the highest legislative authority of the Republic of Serbia, he was then a ringleader along with other Democrats, we remember the boycott in Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac, etc. We Serbian radicals will not invite citizens to boycott and not pay taxes and obligations to the state of Serbia, but we will always appeal and call on citizens to oppose one-mindedness and certain burdens they cannot pay. This is what citizens need to do, this resistance must be given to this authority if it continues on this path, above all by Minister Dinkic, who has almost fiscalised everything, even us living people who are going and using air or some other part, will fiscalize us; even some civil and political associations are trying to fiscalise, simply to charge customs and tax. And not to mention the Ministry of Capital Investments, where the largest amount of money flows, where Velimir Ilic says -- I make it, I make it this time, I make it as if it were his grandfather's money, as if it weren't the money of Serbian citizens. And now, both in the energy system and in the power supply, first of all, when it comes to paying for electricity, it's really an enormous price, which citizens can't bear. Not to mention small and medium-sized enterprises that owe huge amounts of money, which is interest, and normally these companies have to go bankrupt. Most of the state-owned enterprises have actually gone bankrupt or are all privatised into depravity, precisely because of a large and huge debt towards Serbia's distribution. We Serbian radicals have tabled amendments that would amend this contract and this law that you have proposed, you will probably not accept it, but we urge you to reconsider whether such a legal project will bring good to our country, or evil, which will be difficult to correct later. In that sense, unless you accept our proposed amendments and respect our reasoned discussions, normally we Serbian radicals will not vote for this legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27956	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlovic. Please, before printing a stenogram, to consult Mr. Vesenovic, I hope he will give up his claim that Serbia has exported electricity to Kosovo, because this would be calling for the collapse of the constitutional order. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose. I hope it's a lapus. That's why I'm asking him not to stay on record.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27957	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, agree with the fact that Serbia has an extremely favourable geographical position when it comes to networking the network of electricity transmissions and energy networking at all, means, and gas pipelines, pipelines, etc. Serbia is inevitable in this regard, however it should be considered. On the other hand, there's this big problem that we're in this position to trip the new world order and, of course, not only did we build a house, as someone once said, on the world's path, but also on an important pipeline that goes from Baku to the Adriatic Sea, or the American Sea, and for these reasons we're the subject of pressure, of severing, because the United States doesn't want some powerful Serbia that could possibly shut down and wrap the valve with their pipeline, but they're looking for small puppet states to fulfill their interests. For this reason, in 1999, regardless of the excuses, we were the subject of a senseless and wild bombing and the destruction of our electricity industry, the entire potential, and networks and laptops, and of course these are far-reaching consequences, yet unconquerable, and by our economy, and above all I mean the electrical system. This is what I said on purpose, if we already want to ratify the treaty with these countries around, so, with the EU, we should certainly, in order to be in an equal position, ask them to pay us compensation to do the repair of the network, above all, the transmission of electricity, and, of course, those other resources that we had, hydrocentrals, trafocells, etc. Otherwise, I have the impression that this ratification takes more to serve territory, i.e. transporters and possibly consumers more expensive electricity, and less for us to be exporters of electricity, because we do not now have the potential to produce electricity. If we look at the situation from 20 or 30 years ago, we used to be powerful producers and exporters of electricity; in the upper streams of our rivers we had accumulating lakes, and now there's more mud and no more hydropotentials, here I'll give you an example of the Lim River, Drina, etc. So, any upper stream of rivers was at least a little bit used, and now we don't have those options, because they're covered, here and there in some places, but in the lower streams of rivers, because half of Serbia is flooded after the flood, we still need a hydropower plant, so that we can destroy the little fertile land we have. The only possibility remains of producing a thermal power plant, and you can already see, because of Obrenovac, half of Serbia is polluted. And, no matter what we have coal resources, so, bigger resources, it's not a favourable use of that resource. On the other hand, the only option is to use it, and that should, I don't know why it doesn't put an accent on it, stream power plants, hydropower plants, to use it all and to be producers of this kind of energy. Secondly, when I said earlier that we, it seems, are only in the game to use laptops via Serbia and that it will only please the tycoons of the energy Serbia or the energy mafia, because every branch of the economy has its own mafia, as well as the construction, so there is energy, and just before the predecessor mentioned Hamovic, etc., which was the subject of the interrogation, so I wouldn't be talking much about it right now. There would be a lot to talk about, but I wanted to make more remarks about a very bad policy, which there is no strategy for a longer period when it comes to production, use, or distribution of electricity. You see, 20 or 30 years ago, electricity was so given, sold, spent, because there was some kind of social peace. It is not important to mention which period, these are periods when it was ex Yugoslavia, I speak in the space of Serbia, and most likely throughout Yugoslavia. It is well known that then electricity as the finest form of energy was a substitution for coal, wood, etc. That's how our entire potential was destroyed over time. That's why we're in a very bad position right now, and now we have another case. All of a sudden, a leaf has turned over, and now we have very expensive electrical energy, and again a blow to the standard of all citizens, etc. So, there's no permanent strategy, because if it's too cheap, it's known that it's spent in depletion, because it's being saved, to be honest, what's more expensive, and what's cheap is for the substitution of some other energy. That's why I'm saying this. This is now a transition to another extreme, so it's very difficult to balance, to find some solution that can, not just for citizens, but also for businessmen, because electricity is the main item in the cost of any branch of the economy. What I just said earlier, I don't think it would be dishonest and inappropriate to ask, I don't know why the current ministry can't blame these countries, especially the United States, to seek compensation for all that's been done, destroyed in Serbia. Now we want to connect, for the simple reason that we would like to at least come into equal relations, it seems only for transmission, especially when I just heard that the main center of governance in Sofia is. So what are we -- just to serve for transmission, to be transmissions of electricity, gas and oil.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27958	MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27959	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, me as a man living in Kosovo and Metohija, and all my fellow citizens, are vitally interested in the improvement in the supply of electricity to the remaining Serbs in the Serb enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija, if a bill on ratification of the Energy Community Treaty is adopted between the European Community and the countries in the environment. I'll remind you of something you know very well, which is that Serbs have not had regular power supply for seven years. On the contrary, it happens that there is no electricity for 10 days on a continuous basis, especially in winter. Then one of the authorities, under allegations, from the KEK, appeared in the media and said more regular power supplies would be in the coming period. Do you know what that better power supply means? That's two or three hours a day. Speaking of KEK, or Kosovo power distribution, I must say that it is an artificial creation that usurped all energy systems in Kosovo and Metohija and are now being represented as real owners and offering to Serbs, or blackmailing Serbs that they will only have electricity when every household signs a special contract with KEK. You know that if the Serbs sign those contracts it will automatically mean the legalisation of the usurpation carried out by KEK. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are ready not to sign those agreements at the cost of giving up the basic conditions of life. As UNMIK has recently forced temporary Kosovo institutions, I wonder if you will indeed sign contracts with the UN Interim Mission in Kosovo and Metohija or with KEK.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27960	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27961	Dear People's MPs, I just wanted to thank you at the end of this principle debate on two important projects, i.e. the law we discussed, the law on the ratification of the contract and the energy community, which was concluded between the European Commission and these nine countries and should be ratified, and the law on granting counter-guarantee for the loan of the German financial institution KFW Elektroprivred by Serbia to rehabilitate Bajin Basta Hydropower Plant. I find that there have been a lot of well-intentioned discussions, that there have been interesting observations. Only, is it possible that individual disagreements have occurred for one reason -- this is where Serbia does not sign any agreement with either Albania or Bulgaria or any other country, but the Treaty is signed between the EU, which is represented by the European Commission, on the one hand, and by each individual state, on the other hand. The contract itself is legally binding, which is why the contract is. I said, this is the first document that has the power of legal, or binding, which the state of Serbia signs with the European Commission, or the European Union, rather than with Albania, BiH, Croatia and other countries. But I must repeat that I am really proud that the ratification of this contract is the final act of this long-term process that has passed both our energy and energy of the Southeast European region, because from 2000 to 2001 we have made significant changes and reforms in the energy sector. This home has the honour of bringing in several extremely important documents that have helped this path through reform and through transition to this state of affairs that we are in today. He passed system laws in the field of energy and mining; he adopted a strategy for the development of Serbia's energy by 2015, whose conclusions (so, these strategies) talk about the conclusion of a contract, the formation of an energy community. So this is nothing done outside the decision of this body and this assembly, but in accordance with the Strategy and the conclusions of that strategy. Furthermore, I must say that we are one of the few countries in this region that have circled that legal normative part in its legislation. We end up rounding up and need a sublegal act to fully apply the Energy Act. It is very important that we have formed institutions, completely independent, as regulatory bodies; it is the Energy Agency, which will first produce its own work and existence to give and reproduce now on Friday, issuing first licenses to energy entities under the Energy Act, on the one hand. On the other hand, the methodology and future tariffs in the area of natural gas delivery, as later and electricity, will also be finalised; fully transparent and in a manner appropriate practice, will be defined as the actual costs of each energy subject participating in our system. I also have to say that it is that we are geographically in a favourable position. I always say, the results in the energy sector aren't just the results of these five or six years, these are the results of a number of generations before we who knew how to set up that system, especially the power system, who knew that visionary still in the early 1960s, in the '70s, had chosen the way in which this system would develop, and here we are now experiencing this one culmination, one end in that path. There are terrible challenges and difficulties ahead of us. We need to complete the restructuring of the energy companies. We've done a big job, and that means that we've reorganized energy companies then, we have five energy companies practically now formed, all in accordance with those directives. It is now in the works, therefore, apart from this organisational work, or restructuring in an organisational sense, and financial restructuring, as well as functionally, that the system is functionally functioning. So these are also complicated, complex mechanisms and they need to adapt to all of our European mechanisms, and not just European... We easily use the word "European". What's going on with us is the thing that's happening all over the world. So it's not limited to Europe. These trends and these changes, so the introduction of competition, the demonopolization of the energy system, it's everywhere in the world. We had, to say, on one side a difficult circumstance, we were ten years late for legitimate or known reasons. In this whole adaptation, we have now reached a point that we can evenly continue the path to reform as other countries do. We'll do the best we can through this pan-European energy community. That is why we are a significant factor in this entire system, we are the ones who promoted last week also a new project where Serbia should be one of the central or leading factors, which is the Balkan Convention. Balkan, it's just one geographical term, so the convention that should gather countries from this region that should now develop at a new level of relations, especially those that are suited to these moments of our development and in general to the development of the Balkans, which means a distributed way of producing energy and the problems that arise, environmental and environmental problems that also arise here. We've received strong support. The draft text of this convention is under review. We have launched this initiative and I hope that in autumn, somewhere in September, at a meeting of energy ministers here in Serbia, probably in Vrnjačka Banja, that initiative and that we will realise. So there's a lot of challenges ahead, a lot of difficulties, and we all have to face them together, work on them, but now there's a practical rounding process here. When you adopt and ratify the Treaty, signed in October in Athens, we will be the seventh country to ratify the agreement and will practically participate equally in the energy community as well as these other countries since 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-14-0.u27962	Thank you, Mr. Naumov, for the tone of your exposure, not just today, on behalf of everyone and in my personal name, I say – thank you, my favorite minister. Indeed, a way of respecting MPs in address... Please, we're not mixing yours and my favorite ministers. So, on behalf of all MPs, and because of the way we address and explain it. Let me therefore conclude a joint principled search on the draft law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (rehabilitation of Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant). That concludes today's debate. For those who have not attended all the time of the session, tomorrow morning at 10.00 we will continue the debate on the principle of the draft law on the termination of the Law establishing the "Brothership" Press Institute, which is the 17th point of the agenda. If we finish tomorrow's debate on the three remaining points for this session, we won't be working until 10.00 p.m. Monday, when we will be extremely continuing to discuss the details of the first item of the agenda. Once again, thank you for this tolerated debate and for the contribution you've all made to this. Thank you.
