ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25103	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from being attended by MP Ksenija Milivojevic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with INVALIDITETOM (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Milka Silajev, Ljiljana Nestorović, Goran Cvetanović, Tomislav Penezić, Zoran Antic, Nemanja Sarović, Branislav Rankić, Paja Momčov, Miroslav Nedeljković, Ivan Radić, Rodoljub Gačević, Radiša Ilic, Vjerica Rade, Snezana Stojanović-Plašić and Nadka Momirov, as well as the Committee for Labour, Borar and Social Affairs. National MPs Snježana Stojanović-Plasic and Nadica Momirov, in writing, withdrew all the amendments they submitted together on 21 March 2006 to the draft law, except for amendments, with the amendment, which proposed that a new article 45a and amendments be added after Article 45a, which they proposed add a subtitle and a new article 45b. Also, by written amendment, MP Milka Silajev withdrew to Article 35. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Dusan Mrvos has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25104	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for taking away both you and the MPs for just 22 seconds, and I haven't reported in to the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I'm from Pancheva, and now you know why I came to you, who read in the means of public information or on television about the re, who knows who, aero-contamination in Pancheva. I don't want to bother you with the data, but in the end it's not my profession, I'm just going to point out some charts that Pancheva's monitoring system measured and what happens again, I'm not going to say from day to day, but from weekend to weekend. The reduced sulphur, which feels like five units per cubic metre, was in Panchev over 40 on Saturday and Sunday. Benzol, which is at the top five micrograms per cubic metre in Europe, we recognise up to 10 in Serbia, was 80 in Pancheva, etc. What I'm talking about is not co-operation with The Hague, so it's not giving the opposition's hand to reconciliation, it's not Kosovo's status, it's not a process of joining the European Union, but it's something involving 150,000 citizens of the Pancheva municipality. Mr. Chairman, I urge you, Mr. Minister, to finally initiate a process in which, at any time, anyone responsible for such a situation in Panchev, for air pollution in Panchev, or for whoever is responsible for anything in this country of Serbia, will finally respond. Once again, I apologize to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman, it wasn't my duty or my duty, it's just something that's stronger than me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25105	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 4a be added after article 4. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25106	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, this amendment proposed that following Article 4 in the draft law, in general provisions, I add a new title and a member which reads: the title - "The responsibilities of man and citizen"; and Article 4a - "It is everyone's duty to provide necessary assistance to a person with disabilities according to their abilities and abilities, with special attention and respect". The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that something like this is already in the Constitution. I have to realize that this argument doesn't stand until the end. The fact is that one general provision is in the Constitution, which is just talking about these duties of citizens, but not until the end. Namely, in Article 54. The constitution simply states that it is a duty to provide help to others in distress. Such a provision of the Constitution is now calling for the need to be specified in all laws in which it is possible. We now have a law on the agenda that requires the establishment of certain obligations for citizens and citizens. I remind you, in Article 1. The constitution says Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens living in it, based on freedoms and rights and certainly on the duties of man and citizen. My idea of putting up with such an amendment was that in this law, in addition to the obligation of the public authority to create all assumptions for the equality of persons with disabilities, all citizens should be directly involved and, even as a moral obligation, the duty of every person to help a disabled person. Why does it matter? Every good law, which regulates one area, must play that important and necessary role in affecting and developing, above all, the consciousness of people. Serbia, we are all aware of this, is not a citizen country until the end. We are all witnessing the daily misbehaving of citizens both in public transport and on the street, not to mention the enormous degree of violence, being carried out, above the weaker faces, on women, on children, if you will, and on disabled people. It is therefore important that this constitutional provision, which is set out in Article 54. The constitution clearly specifies, wherever possible. I must point out, it's a shame that the legislator of this law didn't understand my intensity. In the end, let me just say that this is not a law that will ultimately incorporate and allow a normal life for a vast population of people in our country. We all know there are about 10% of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we promised five years ago that we would pass a second, much more important law concerning these people, which is the law on the employment of disabled people. He's still not on the agenda of this assembly, and I think it's about time he was found here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25107	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25108	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, we of the SRS have said enough about this law in principle, therefore, that we are not satisfied with such a bill, not that the government wanted to regulate this matter, but that it proposed a law that would practically not have any practical value. As for the amendments, we were in a dilemma about whether or not to write amendments at all, because by the logic of things, if you're not satisfied with the concept of the law, then the amendments are a little bit what you can achieve. So what's the point of trying to do some cosmetic changes to fix something that's wrong from the ground up, and amendments can't be changed from the ground up, so if we tried to make amendments, we'd be writing the bill over and over again through the amendments. Since it's a waste of work, we've nevertheless defined ourselves to write some amendments, more that the kind of language-technical text that you've tried to fix, to specify some things, and as far as this amendment is concerned, so to Article 6, now I'm going to tell you what this is about. I asked for a point 3 point to be added in Article 6(4), which would read: “If people with disabilities are to blame for disability. ” What's this about? I think we all have some practical experience, if not from the first hand, that persons with disabilities, especially those whose disability has arisen in the war in the last decade, have been exposed to very harsh discrimination. When people ask you for any help from any institution, institution, level of government, it happened after these political changes, especially in local self-government, that some hothead in some responsible place is very rude to treat a disabled person, that he tells him something, now I'm going to paraphrasise, go, let someone you've fought for or go help you with who sent you to war. You know, a lot of these things that stand in the provisions of this law, where it's listed what can be considered discrimination, may not happen in reality, but well, don't mind, let them be taxed in law. What I have now stated is something that exists realistically as a phenomenon, it has been particularly expressed since 2000, and so, and there are still these scarred carriers of some public functions, leading places in health and other institutions, which are so rudely treating people with disabilities. It's completely unclear why the promoter didn't accept a amendment like this. There's no reason for that. It may be too harsh to say, but it can only be justified by the political aversion of the promoter. Does the promoter think that this kind of discrimination is not discrimination, that it is freely possible to impose blame on a disabled person for the disability that has arisen? I would very much like to hear the right explanation why this amendment is not accepted, and here we have an official explanation of why it is not accepted – it is said that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of the proposed form of discrimination, as a prohibited form of discrimination, but contained in Article 6(4), points 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. However, when you read these points that the proposer states, we see that this is not it and that is absolutely not what you're talking about. There is no rational explanation for not accepting this amendment. I knew many amendments wouldn't accept the proposal, but for this and a few others, I really didn't find any rational reason to refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25109	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25110	This is really interesting, I don't think there was any reason why the government didn't accept this amendment. Perhaps Mr Nedeljkovic did not give a very good example, so when the person who is clearly disabled, as an excuse why he does not exercise any right or public authority is unable to enable him to use a right, he uses that sentence – he comes to the person who sent you, or what to do to you, you are guilty, you did not use protective means, so there was an accident at work that caused your disability. In the context of what Mr. Nedeljkovic has suggested with this amendment, all other cases of handicaps can be settled where the response is also heard on the counters through the teeth – please contact your father or mother when they were born. I think the government could have freely accepted this amendment, no matter what we have a conceptal disagreement when it comes to this law. We believe that the standards of preventing discrimination should be exude in all our regulations, or it is enough to legitimize ourselves to the public with one general regulation, which contains declarations, but what is the standard, therefore, which the General Assembly has adopted, should pervade all of our regulations. To return to this field of yours, you see, the government in Article 6(5) has turned things around. What's written in attitude (5), it's essentially an incentive, it's an incentive action. Let me tell you, discrimination is considered also an invitation, and an indication of discrimination, and aiding in a discriminatory procedure, but it's not discrimination. I need to explain that to you. He who encourages, he is as guilty as he who has done the work or approximately, but he has not done the same work as he. So, if someone encouraged someone to commit theft, he is in a criminal sense responsible and will receive punishment for the approximately penalty provided for the crime of theft, but he did not commit theft. You've led here to discrimination when I'm forcing someone to discriminate on a person's face. For the act of discrimination, it is important to contact between two persons, one who is disabled, who is disabled and someone who decides on his rights. You also interpreted what the boss said to someone on the counter as an act of discrimination. So there is more reason to accept what Dr. Nedeljkovic has proposed with this amendment than what is in the fifth position. What stands in (5) is a practical incentive, guidance, and broader observation. You see, you insist on being in a (5) position, and you do not accept this as regards the addition of the attitude (4) to the new point 3. I fully agree that it is impossible to predict all cases of discrimination and it is impossible to describe individual cases and actions of discrimination. So the Criminal Law does not go into these details, but gives the elements of a criminal act in a rather comprehensive way, so it fits in because life carries some new situations, some new actions occur, etc. I think that the government could accept this amendment, a team before your concept of the law is disrupted, but what Dr. Nedeljkovic suggested makes a little more precise in a better way, that discrimination and when a disabled person gets an answer in the exercise of rights - what to do to you, contact someone else who blames you, or it's your fault, or someone else's fault, or it's fate. And it's a form of discrimination, and it's a difficult form of discrimination. It is not covered by points 1 and 2. I don't want to go specifically to points 1 and 2. That's quite imprecise. You've accepted an amendment where this word was deleted continuously, but yet that text has not been fixed, I must tell you. I don't think it's a problem to adopt this amendment. The law may be more understandable, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25111	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, thank you. The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25112	Dear People's MPs, I would just like to make a brief comment or review of this amendment because it has wide open some questions. The proposed amendment, which we did not accept, was not accepted for the next reason. A little while ago, the MP himself mentioned another situation where it could happen. When someone is hurt at work, for example, so someone tells them, 'cause you haven't used any means of protection, etc. So, what I'm saying is that it can't and should not regulate only one situation, but it tries to regulate all similar situations at one broader level, and that's why we didn't accept this amendment, based on certain consultations also with organisations and disabled and combatants, because point 2 of Article 4 of this Article says - if it is clearly humiliating, exclusively or mainly because of its disability. So it is our opinion and belief that we have practically included this solution and what the Proposer of this amendment wants, but also many other situations that this amendment does not foresee at all, therefore, all the situations that we could or can foresee, and when it comes to the fact that in some way a disabled person is burdened only by being disabled, in any variants. Furthermore, the point is that we felt that the position (4) of point 2 of this article covered it. I stress this first of all because, of course, the promoter doesn't think that proper behavior is when a wartime wartime invalid complains in one way or another, which is said here: that he goes there who sent him and the like. It's simply not the position of the promoter, but it's one very specific thing that, by preparing a law like this, we wanted to cover all the imaginary situations. And this applies not only to the situation of wartime military disableds, but also to other possible situations where the disabled is transferred to the disabled for any reason, in any way. Just one more note. So, by the position (5) of this Article 6, we've really done two more things. In addition to the act of discrimination itself, we want to prohibit or sanction two more acts of conduct: the indication of discrimination, when encouraged and when aided. So, we also wanted to regulate the situation of incentive and assistance. I think it's normal, that it's a good solution, simply because very often it will be that act of discrimination itself the result of a certain attitude or order ordered by a certain employee in many situations. So, if we didn't include just encouraging or helping, then we wouldn't practically include in fact very often the main culprits for certain behavior when we talk about discrimination. Simply, this conditional extension was necessary in order to cover all the defendants, and above all very often the key winemakers, bosses, directors, administrations, etc., not just some direct official or worker who performs an act of discrimination on the basis of someone's order, orders or attitude. I think that's also important, and with these explanations, it's clear about what attitudes we've had as a proponent of this law. I'd like to give two more information to the MPs and the public. As far as this law is concerned, the Labour Committee has proposed two or three amendments, which we as Government have adopted, making these amendments an integral part of the law. I would draw attention to two of them, because I think they were important and were partly the subject of conversations in this congregation when it was a principle debate on this law. The first amendment proposed by the Labour Committee and adopted by the Government is an amendment which introduces criminal provisions into the law. So, the law had no criminal provisions in its proposal, we accepted an amendment that provides for criminal provisions in several members in the event of the conduct of the opposite to the individual provisions of this law. And, the second significant amendment adopted by the Labour Committee and adopted by the Government is also an amendment that, when it comes to the two measures being taken, the deadline for application is set on 1 January 2007. So it's simply about some measures that, by nature, things can't be implemented eight days after the law comes into force, but they need a certain period. These are measures to create a support service, so it's about what needs to be done in local self-government, local community. It takes a period, so it's January 1st, 2007. And other measures to create an accessible environment, therefore, simply give space and time to local self-government, local government in its plans foresees and means and how it will access the creation of an accessible environment. The application of these two measures starts from 1 January 2007, it is simply logical and necessary, which provides for criminal provisions on those members where we thought there was an excuse. There's so much, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25113	Excuse me, please, so this was an explanation of the attitude. In no way has it been interpreted offensively, nor has it been called out. This is an explanation of the government's position, why it has this attitude, as you explained why you set the amendment. It's not correct, but if you think you're misread, I'll give you my word, but I don't think there was an interpretation, that's not how I understood it. Here, I'll give you my word, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25114	Mr. Markovic, nothing is problematic. The minister came out after my explanation to give the government's position why this amendment was not accepted and in his presentation he presented some things that do not stand. Here, please Minister, will someone be clear about what you wrote? Not you specifically, but the government has proposed. You see, Article 6(4) – Discrimination exists also in the case, so point 2, if the disciplined is clearly handled in a humiliating manner. How do you know it's a discriminatory face? So you've already said in advance that someone's been discriminated against, so as a qualified, it's a humiliating act. So he's already qualified as a person who's been discriminated against, so little is being discriminated against, there's still a humiliating act going on. In that sense, I asked for this to be fixed, because this can't stand logically. This is logically unacceptable, not grammatical. Why do we insist on Dr Nedeljkovic's amendment? Because it prescribes a very obvious and simple one of the more frequent situations in which one can be found. You just didn't get us. We don't mind having to call whoever orders, encourages, helps someone to discriminate against someone, but it can't be this formulation. You could have written: "The discrimination is responsible and the one who calls, orders" etc. This is neither grammatical nor legal-technical. You're an incentive act, you've qualified aid as an act of discrimination. It is in a criminal sense complicity in a narrow sense - assistance, guidance, etc. Of course he's supposed to answer the boss, but he doesn't do discrimination, he's ordered discrimination against someone. To express his responsibility for complicity, then you need another formulation, because this is how discrimination was done, allegedly the boss, and he didn't see the counter or those people coming to the counter. Why are we saying this and why have we submitted these five or six amendments? So we don't get what's going on with our regulations. Here is the vote, the law comes out, and then the law doesn't apply, so the Agency for Business Registers asks the Supreme Court to interpret what is in the law, so they say "we can't interpret what the legislator wanted to write," and even with other regulations, simply because of the inaccuracy. There's no need for this inaccuracy here, a team before there's a really sincere and good will to fix the text. I'm simply surprised that you don't accept obvious things like this, and you insist (5) on something that's pointless. Take anyone from law school and he'll tell you this can't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25115	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25116	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to express my satisfaction or some kind of satisfaction that the government, or the minister, seems to me, has accepted my suggestion, because in the debate, in principle, I was saying that there are no criminal provisions in this law. I even said that in all other areas there are criminal provisions, that a natural or legal person is punished so much and so much if he doesn't meet something. The minister said the government has submitted an amendment to introduce criminal provisions and I am very pleased. As for the amendments that I submitted to Article 7(1), it kind of coincides with the discussion that has been here so far in relation to Article 6, the second part of this law, which is a general ban on discrimination. I must say immediately that I underline, "the proposed amendment is not touched by the proposal's intention, but is properly formulated by that intention," just what both Mr Krasic and Nedeljkovic said. It's about the fact that the face is predicated as being discriminated against, and that person, as he says in my amendment, should be called a person with disabilities. I will read Article 7: "If the disciplined person is exclusively or mainly for his disability, the rights and freedoms, or impose obligations, which in the same or similar situation, are not denied or imposed by another person or group, are unjustly denied". In the amendment I have submitted, there is only one correction to the term: "If persons with disabilities are denied rights and freedoms, they impose obligations that do not in the same or similar situation deny or impose on another person or group". The explanation was what I said, but I will read: "A person with disabilities cannot be called in advance, and only then list what is the discrimination of that person", and then comes this last sentence that I have said that this amendment does not touch on the proposal, but only on the correct formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25117	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16(3), which reads: "Article 16(3) deletes the point and the words are added "within one year from the entry into force of this law". In order to make it clear to the citizens who are following this session of the Assembly, I will quote Article 16(3) of the bill, which reads: "The owner of the facility in public use is required to make an adaptation of the facility in order to meet the conditions for meeting the obligations laid down in Article 1." The amendment proposes that a specific deadline be set for the implementation of the object's adaptation. This is linked to Article 16(1), which states that the owner of the facility in public use, as well as the public undertaking, is obliged to provide access to the facility in public use, or to the public area, to all persons with disabilities, regardless of the type and degree of their disability. So here is the problem that a certain adaptation has not been made and it takes a certain period to do so. What's left here, and that's eight days from the law's entry into force, in which nothing can be done on any object adaptation, to make it adaptable to the disabled. Now I would ask Mr. Minister, if he were to put himself in the role of the owner of the facility in public use, would he be able to adapt his object in eight days to be accessible to the disabled? Here can also be considered crashes, floors. I wonder if it is possible for the time period, eight days from the day of entry into force of this law, the owner of the facility to adapt that object? If we still know that there is a need for adaptation permits, this adaptation may violate the architecture of a certain part of the city; then, how long is the procedure for obtaining permits; then, property-legal relations, given that many objects have been leased; so until it is finished with the right owners, time will pass, and that deadline, which is required by this amendment, is precisely needed for the owners of the facility to adapt their facilities. In your explanation, you wrote that the amendment is not accepted given that the deadline is unrealistic. You also stated: "We also note that in the assembly procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, which provides for a penalty for investors who do not make the facilities accessible. "I note again that it is an adaptation of the facility, not newly built objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25119	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25120	This member may be the best example from which it is seen that the wrong concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia was when it tried to regulate the area of banning discrimination against persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities. The best example is that in one general law, the law that the proponent designed to be a mere declaration, which would later be developed by some special laws, he introduced something called a building standard. This is pure matter that needs to go into regulations, technical norms for construction of construction facilities, whose purpose is for public services, public authorities, institutions, institutions, institutions, directorates, where they communicate with the parties and where a person using a wheelchair or other aid can appear as a party, and in order for that personal approach to be enabled, some ramps and some means of assistance are needed. So it's a purely technical standard. This technical standard should be in the construction regulations and, of course, need a building permit, a valid permit, so as some other conditions are conditioned which are necessary, and this condition to be set, to see if the investor has respected technical normatives, whether the technical documentation has an access ramp. When the work is completed, the technical commission for reception shall determine whether it has been done per project and the applicable authorisation shall be issued. You see, the technical standard is being pushed into a general regulation and this is a very good example to see that it's the wrong concept. Why the wrong concept? Whoever decides whether the design is in line with the construction standards should also uphold this law, that's how it works out. He needs to see if there's some kind of provision that applies to that kind of building facility, and that already exists in standards. When someone is building a facility designed for the functioning of state authorities, only certain objects have to meet this condition, which is working with the parties, where a citizen comes to talk, to allow him easier access. Why in some closed facilities, where such faces don't work, would that standard have to exist? So the matter of rules of technical standards in one general way is inserted into this general regulation and whoever decides on technical documentation, the urban conditions should now be rotated by this law, in addition to all the regulations and standards it uses. This is a good example, and what Mr. Radic said really concerns efficiency. Nothing's going on here. As soon as something is prescribed as an obligation, no deadline is given, and it concerns the adaptation of something that needs to be resolved in some time, then, if the norm has no part regarding the deadline is not a norm, then it's a declaration. I can understand in the future that this provision should stand in the design, so it is not armed with a certain deadline, but when it comes to adaptation, it is quite certain that it should be done in the future. If we protect the disabled, give as soon as possible to do so and allow free access to those institutions. You're avoiding that deadline, and I understand why you're avoiding the deadline, because it's hard to prescribe something for a municipality like Black Treva, where there may be two disabled persons in the entire municipality and now commit them to do it within that time limit, and if they don't do the question of responsibility, who's going to answer in front of the public service, who's going to answer in front of the Ministry. Is it necessary to initiate the case against Jocic because the SUP does not have access to the ramp in a small town? We're telling you all this to show that this is a really pointless concept. If in 95 our country has ratified those standards, accepted those standards, the government has signed, then these standards are applied, and they should be a warrant that when we regulate a specific area, the area of life, we have in mind and those standards, that we do not sin on those standards or that some of these standards are specifically incorporated into some individual law, and what we are doing now under this law is really pointless. It's a practical standard copying. If we need to pass a law that we can rewrite standards and put in a little bit, public authority, etc., then we're free of law, and it's probably a condition for a loan, so to say that you've covered or maybe some sponsorship for some NGOs, but this is a missed concept. We will have the law, and we will have no protection under that law, as we have come into this situation with many laws from the area that the minister represents. Peaceful dispute resolution, you remember everything and everything, nothing works in practice. Negotiations, contracts, collective agreements, nothing works. Find a private who will conclude a collective contract, can't educate the unions, and we've passed the law, we say to the public that we have the law, the law obliges, but there's no one to implement it, no one to implement it, and it's similar to this. In particular, as far as this member is concerned, it is a purely technical standard. The technical standard should be in the technical regulations to be applied by those in charge. As a general declaration, you have devalued the technical normative general formulations, the laws without sanctions, etc.; the regulation is devalued, a positive initiative is devalued. Discrimination is generally prohibited by political, religious, racial, physical, property, etc., in all possible forms of distinction between people. That discrimination is forbidden. There is a dispute in the theory whether to go to the details or only with general formulations, but if you go to the details then in each specific regulation something specific is being discussed for that area and that is how the basic principle is potentiated. We have standards here, and now we're going to write our standards on the system -- we're going to rewrite them, put them here, and we've got security. There's a cartoon in Brussels and it's said, "Yeah, this is done." Let's move on, what's next to bring? We've been chasing 250, 270 laws where we're going to get a plus in which section? This section plus, I'm going to the next plus, and what about when we turn back, is it applied? Is it possible to apply? Some regulations are not possible, it is impossible to apply, which we have brought. Before the beginning of this session, my wife calls me and she says, "Look how this thing with the lawyers, etc., went to the lawyer, changed, made a statement that I didn't approve of." Now remember the new law that only a lawyer can write an audit. It's a disaster. It's a mess. There's something else. All that was released from the judges or resigned, everyone went to the Mediation Center as experts. They couldn't pass as judges and passed as experts to train judges how to judge. Don't, please, give me some seriousness. If it should be late, let it be late, but what we do to say - this is done, let's go implement it as you like to say, to live, to make the people feel that what is prescribed by law is applied, and then we go to the next thing. These are mere declarations that don't lead to anything, and they give us materials to call you. You give us unlimited amount of material to call you. Why? It's easy to get into legal projects, just for the sake of that plush over there in that section. This Tanya Miscevic says - well, we did this, and we did this. And when you ask her, ma'am, what's done, do you know anything, she has no idea, she's shaking her hair and we're moving on. That's not how you run the country. The regulation must first be serious and one who reads the regulation must know that the state is seriously behind the regulation. The more concrete the rules, the better for the legal order. When you have a general regulation like this, who's going to apply it? Discriminated, belittled, etc. Nice passwords, really nice passwords. In practice, I've had so many cases when I worked with that face since I worked in a pension and disability fund, so in my fund, they discriminated against the disabled person we hired. Those of you who need to take care of disabled faces, I'm not going to wear an item for him, I'm not going to knock for him, I'm not going to do this, I'm not going to wear that. So, those people who need to fight discrimination, discriminated against their colleague, who is a disabled person, who is a good lawyer, did well, etc. That's what this is about. We're passing a regulation, here's a technical regulation, a technical standard, in this regulation is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25121	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Minister Lalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25122	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable MPs, I took the floor just to give information that I think is important. Since it is said here for this speaker that the Law on Peace Resolution of Disputes does not produce results, it does not give effect, because it falls under unnecessary laws, I simply want to give information for the public that by this moment, close to thousands of disputes have been concluded in front of the agency that is doing the job and I hope that in the coming period, because we will be campaigning among workers and employers, there will be many thousands of working disputes settled before that agency. This is incomparably better for both workers and employers, as disputes there last from 15 days to two months, instead of 15 months to five years or so, as it is in regular disputes before regular courts. So this is what I want to stress: not that this law makes sense, but it gives quite good results, and in the process of further implementation we expect far better results, where it is in the best interests of both workers and employers in Serbia. Another note, which I would also like to say, that of course we have adopted here a law that created a system in which profit policy in Serbia should be guided by the conclusion of collective agreements. The state did what was up to it, but now something must be done by unions, and employers, and workers. It's part of a job that the state can't do for them and organize unions or something, so there's no confusion. Thirdly, what I mean is, we certainly have a serious job ahead of us, and it will take a long time: it is the implementation of the rules that we have adopted and which we will bring. For the sake of Serbia's public, I also give another piece of information. When we talk about steps towards the EU and European integration, there are two clearly divided parts of the job. The first is the adoption of the necessary rules to achieve standards; and the second, better and more difficult part of the job is their implementation and application in practice. We're at that stage now. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25123	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the representatives of the SRS did not say that this law is not necessary because it is not practical, but because what you wrote and put into law is hardly practical. So the law is required, there are a number of disabled people, so it's not a dispute, it's a questionable way of saying it. As an SRS MP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, and then I will practically define that there is a misunderstanding. Article 17 defines discrimination with regard to health services and states firstly that a particularly difficult case of discrimination on grounds of disability is any discrimination against persons with disabilities when providing health services. The attitude (2) - discrimination of persons with disabilities when providing health services is considered to be: refusal to provide health care to persons with disabilities due to their disability, setting special conditions for providing health care to disabled persons if these conditions are not justified by medical reasons, refusing to make a diagnosis and denying appropriate information about the current state of health, taken or planned measures for the treatment and rehabilitation of disabled persons due to its disability; point 4 - any harassment, insult or mutilation of persons with disabilities during their stay in a health facility due to their disability. The amendments to the SRS have been defined to delete, in Article 17(2), point 3. — that is, the refusal to make a diagnosis and the denial of relevant information on the current state of health, taken or intended treatment measures, as well as the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities due to their disability. All for the reasons already listed, all of this belongs to health services as defined in point 1 of this attitude, and it is covered by what is contained in point 3, and due to unnecessary repetition, this point should be deleted. You've shown nothing but declarationability in this way, you're repeating the constant concepts. Obviously, the text of the law is prescribed, so illogical and how they repeat themselves. Our intention wasn't to change the concept, but to make the law much more precise. And if you follow attitude (1), there is defined that discrimination is any discrimination of a person with disabilities when providing health services. It's clear to me that the minister is not a professional doctor, he's having a hard time getting along. It's hard for him to manage this way, because first as an MP, he has to put in a card, and then as a minister, who is not competent for this law, he has to defend the law. Take any textbook and you'll see what's meant under healthcare. Exactly what's at point 3, exactly what the representatives of the SRS want to erase is a diagnosis. What's that? It's a health service. Treatment, rehabilitation, just what is already in place (1), providing health services. That's why we wanted this article to be much more precise, to make the law more precise. We give you suggestions not to repeat yourself. These are all health services and we don't change anything in the concept of the law, we just don't need to repeat ourselves. I hope that, with consultation with your advisor, you will be able to respect this objection and adopt the amendment of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25125	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nedeljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25126	A colleague of Cvetanović explained it nicely. I just wanted so much shorter and simpler to say the same to make you understand what we wanted with this amendment. We just wanted to erase one point that's repeating, a broader explanation of the previous point 1. Thus, a fine Article 17 states that under discrimination there is a refusal to provide health care to a person with disabilities because of her disability. There are no disputes. Afterwards, in point 3 of the same attitude, discrimination is a rejection of diagnosis, etc. It's all a health service. I don't understand why it is to say that discrimination is a refusal to provide health services, and then as a new kind of discrimination - a diagnosis setting, writing recipes, or some method of reviewing not to apply to a person with disabilities. So it's completely unclear why this amendment was rejected, because absolutely by this amendment in Article 17 nothing changes, but it would be shorter by a completely unnecessary formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25127	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as my colleague Cvetanovic, have tabled an amendment to Article 17 concerning discrimination on health services. Unlike my colleague Cvetanovic, who suggested that point 3 be deleted, I suggested adding another point that would clearly distinguish healthcare institutions' obligations to provide the disabled with a service across the line. There I had an argument from the Government that, in my opinion, this obligation is in point 1 - it is a refusal to provide health care to a person with disabilities because of her disability. I believe that providing services through order and refusing to provide health care are two entirely different concepts and there was no reason why the Government would not accept this amendment. It is certain that disabled people today have a lot of problems in our society. This would, in some ways, allow at least the medical services they need to come across the line and their position to be improved in some way. Frankly, I hope about this law – given that I have a commitment to my Jagodins, workers of equipment from Jagodina, which is disabled workers, because it is a company that employs disabled workers, who have not received salaries for years or are extremely small salaries; to remind Minister Lalovic that he has promised in particular that the status of all persons with disabilities will be a more detailed analysis and one law – that this legal solution, which is extremely vague and optional, will not be amnesty than the responsibility of the Ministry and the Minister himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25129	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin. Here you go. After her, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25130	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I would really agree with my colleagues that this article 17 is very clumsyly written, numbered. His wish is doubtless, absolutely good. I would say that this whole interference, in fact, caused again a clumsy explanation and explanation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for not accepting the amendment of counterpart Antić to Article 17 why this amendment is being rejected. First of all, the amendment explains something else, and the point is that disabled people are provided with services through order, if they need it as such. I'm surprised that the Assembly's resolution board didn't pay attention, so maybe these two amendments that, in some ways, it's edified and turned into its amendment, so it's a slightly more skillful formulation of Article 17 that makes it a better law. But I just want to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote on the amendment to Article 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25131	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25132	Both Mr Cvetanovic and Mr Antic have given two separate amendments to the same member. The promoter practically provoked the amendments to be written. Look, discrimination is what's written in point 3 to each man. So, the doctor gives someone a diagnosis, tells them the results, and doesn't tell the others the results. It's discrimination. If it is now a disabled person or a disabled person, and no data is reported, then it is practically already covered by the general prohibition of discrimination. Now I'm going back to that principle debate of ours, and I could see that you wrote something here that would look like, really restrictively, I'm using that term, like, so-called. positive discrimination, where health conditions are respected, problems and some mild priority is given for something. There are ramps, etc. I know that in the ethical rules applied by doctors there is something similar, where a disabled person has a priority when looking at other people. I don't know why it bothers you to accept that. Look, we've been seeing strange things for the past few years. Look, we have the President of the Republic, thank God he's not disabled, I said it very neutrally, because in America at least three disabled persons were presidents and led as the most successful president of the United States. Probably some president of ours was disabled, but no one knew he was disabled. So I use it very neutrally. But I'm just confused, his chief media advisor is a doctor. Either he's a bad doctor, or he's this patient, so he needs to have his doctor present all the time to examine him. According to the statements given by the advisor and made by the president, we both need a doctor. Because of them, this provision should be introduced, so that one of them who gets the assurance that he is disabled has a priority when they go together for review. You're smiling, Minister, it's terrible with these statements they make. This is a terrible statement they make, not just a broom, but they're capable of turning everything around. They don't even know what a traitor is in a political way, what treason is in a legal sense, they don't know anything. They only know how to use and abuse the media, so today they're going to make it the worst Assembly, tomorrow they're going to make some political party, the day after tomorrow -- the president of some court, who knows who's coming to mind, just so someone doesn't get into their interests. Right away, the doctor's doing medical work, it's publicized, and you see, the doctor's come to use the broom. So his entire knowledge of medicine is a broom, so, a hygienist, it was in a health home, where it was. I don't think you lose anything in this bill if you accept this amendment. I'm going back to what I'm about to do now. The norm needs to be clear. It must not be more meaningful, what Mr. Antic has suggested is extremely precise and clear and I agree that there may be problems in practice. You see a man who looks decent, and who knows he's disabled, unless he's seen because of some disease or a professional illness, etc. Usually people with disabilities experience as a man on crutches, in a wheelchair, which can be a natural handicap, etc. Maybe it can create problems in practice, because when they read that one and that one, they rebel, so he just came in, so he did, but who knew he was disabled, he saw what a nice-looking man looked like. There may be these problems in practice, but if you're already making something, give something more concrete to be, come on, because I can see from the looks and from you, no one is against this amendment, and if no one is against this amendment, and it's so precise, I think you should adopt that the law really looks like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25133	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25134	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 18. The bill refers to a part of the law that regulates discrimination regarding education and education. In Article 18(2), point 4 is added to it, which reads: "The non-acceptability of persons with disabilities by a group of students or their parents, even when there are no forms of discrimination. "The government's explanation for why this amendment is rejected is extremely gnarly and vaguely, inaccurately, not to use the word - incorrect. Here's the thing. It is said that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is already contained in the provisions of Article 18. The bill, which is certainly not true, and we can see for ourselves the following. Article 18(2) shall have three points which define the forms of discrimination referred to in Articles (1) and says – 1. the denial of the admission of a preschool child, a student, or a student with disabilities to an educational or educational institution; 2. exclusion from an educational or educational institution, etc.; and 3. the setting of non-violence as special conditions for admission to an educational institution. Therefore, all three points of this Article in the position (2) relate to discrimination by an educational institution, to discrimination against that child. There is no question of discrimination by a group of students, or their parents. And then you go on a little bit of your own reasoning, and you say, "The concrete question of accepting people with disabilities in practice is possible to overcome the change of consciousness, education and behavior and through joint action through the media. "Two examples of how a change of consciousness can occur. The easiest way to get a change of mind is to introduce something into the law. Example one, how we influenced people's consciousness to tie their seat belts when they got into the car; by introducing it into the law and describing it as a violation. Today we have a situation where a huge number of drivers, so they're putting on safety belts. Another example, perhaps even fresher, as we influenced the smoker's awareness not to smoke in closed rooms and in a public place where there are certain or at least one non-smoking; by introducing it into the law and describing it as a violation. That's why I think we could introduce this into the law too, so before we can do any harm to other people, and maybe in ten, and maybe in twenty years, there won't be any need for such provisions to stand in the law, because there's going to be a change of consciousness. But by then, it is certainly not possible, just before this example that I have cited is not something imaginary, not existing, so that you can say, there are radicals, just to write the amendment, but it is a very common phenomenon that certain groups, parents often prevent the reception, or resist the admission of children with disabilities to an educational institution, which prevents them from regular schooling. So I suggest you reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25135	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good amendment that I don't understand why the parliamentary majority couldn't accept, why the government didn't accept it. It is, in fact, discrimination regarding education and education. In attitude (2), we ask that after three points – the denial of the child’s preschool age, students, or students with disabilities in an educational or educational institution, then the exclusion from the educational institution and the setting up of non-violence as special conditions for entry into the educational institution – introduce another phenomenon that should be classified as discrimination, which is the most common. We all know that. Now, on a few examples, I'm going to show you this, and you're all going to see that I'm, unfortunately, right. So, our media is in the whole society, they're following the trend, I don't know why and I don't know which way, but I guess they're talking about the idea of talking about the individual, about the threat of the citizens, so now, if it's the pedophile, whether he raped this guy or the one, whether he did it in one way or another, now we're all disgusting ourselves in some way over what we know is happening all over us and what we need to treat, not just by preventive measures, but by repressive measures, and that's all right. Now there's something that's a special form of discrimination between individuals, I'd say certain ethnic groups, and I mean the Roma ethnic group, first of all, or the national minority, or whatever you want, and I mean a person with disabilities. How do you do that? Namely, everyone is full of the mouth of human rights, freedom, civil rights, the protection of those persons in every place possible, that anyone who would publicly pronounce something is convicted, in this case for fascism, otherwise for inhumanity, etc. In practice, when you look at these cases, they're much more common than real and real people are. I'll give you an example, because everyone's saying, Roma are the same as us, I really think they are, there's no difference, no difference can be made. When it comes to being your first neighbor, then they jump: I won't, why, let it be me, let it be someone else. We have the same problem with people with disabilities: yes, I'm terribly sorry, I'm terrible at it anyway, and maybe it would be a little more convenient if that kid went to another class, because you know, I don't know what it is, we'll help in all ways, but not really be in a bench with my kid. It's something that's inadmissible. We all know it's happening and it's something we can't do. As one more thing cannot be done, and it is the abuse of disabled persons, not just for political purposes, but for all other possible purposes in the worst possible way. That's why we invite you to be in favour of this amendment. I remember, and I talked about it when we talked about the law in principle, when we had in the election campaign, there were elections of Belgrade for mayor, we visited, there were more associations of persons with disabilities, people were, I was surprised, therefore, tall intellectuals, extremely educated, not only to know the legal norms, the legal system of Serbia, but in an extraordinary way, talking about the problems they face. And to them, even the way we're talking here today, all the law itself is in some way discrimination. We talk about these differences all the time today. It would be good if we showed that these people when they come to the highest level of function that they don't really differ from everyone else. Because it's not his fault if someone has a problem or a problem. It can be incomparably better in other features, not only to replace it, but also to show that it can do the most responsible jobs incomparably better, incomparably more responsible than others do. And then, the worst form of abuse that happened then is -- I'm going to do it to you, I'm going to do it to you; and people are watching, they're not asking for anything, they're not asking for much, they're looking for basic conditions. Indeed, there are terrible stories. They're asking literally for basics from the state. Some people ask that they can buy crutches at a decent price, not to be sold to them, I don't know what kind of import wood for I don't know how much money and I don't know how much. And then, I'll build 5,000 ramps, I don't know what, it's ramps for people, it's those surfaces over which you can easily cross the carts and other devices. On the other hand, nothing happens after that. What we've seen in the last few days, let's go politically to abuse. There's been a scandal that people haven't noticed or people have nowhere to notice, because they only have their own TV. Namely, to show that state money is being abused, it is currently the largest tycoon in Serbia, Dragan Djilas, who boasts that it is not true when Toma Nikolic says he has 400m revenues, but that he has two billion annual revenues. So I ask you, and who and how does he earn it, how does he do it, Minister? What's that two billion dollars on air sales? So explain to me, I'm counting on us all being stupid, but I doubt you'll say that all citizens are stupid, that they can't make a hundred percent of what some can because they're at the head of the National Office. So, the tycoon went to visit Ivica Lazovic, who received an assessment of permanent disability after the conflict on the Belgrade streets, a rally, on the one hand by the Socialist Party of Serbia, on the other hand by some DEPOS or DOS, doesn't matter at all at this time. And this man, the state must really help him in every way in accordance with the law, no matter what side he is on or without making any difference. And what they do, they go to the cameras, now we take pictures, which of the people's couples, not of their money, not of the tycoon pairs, but of the people's couples what they're going to take and say -- here he is, carrying the disabled, insisting on it, carrying a disabled person who has become disabled thanks to the criminal regime of Slobodan Milosevic or I don't know what. There is no worse nor political or human discrimination, nor anything, and he enters, a tycoon, with two bags, filled with sardines, and I don't know what, and 10,000 state money gives. So give me more, give me some of your tycoon millions, of all the tycoon billions. It is something that offends every man in this country, which shows what kind of people today rule Serbia. Do you see what these media's like? Because some saints are made. On Friday or Saturday, our MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Nenad Mitrovica took 1,200 books to the villages of Gotovina and Strpce in Kosovo and Metohija. We sent them neatly, they welcomed them nicely. They took it from their money and money from the Serbian Radical Party to our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Take the Serbs to two elementary schools and one high school, three elementary and one high school. No one wanted to say a single word, but that's why those with fivem euros are taking pictures of the reported profit at the annual level. Look, guys, we're not talking about 50, 60 thousand euros, we're not talking about 500,000 euros, we're talking about five million in one year. In 10 years, it's the people of 50 million euros, not the dinars. It's in dinars and times 90, so figure out what it is. You can't even calculate. It's something that has to be prevented. I think this amendment in principle, in terms of the relationship of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to disabled persons, is very important and I think you can accept that, Mr. Minister. Because if parents and children are prevented who are often, of course, which of us parents learn, so they can be very unfair and do it as if at least some kind of violation, with a moral sanction for parents who are responsible for such behavior, I think we're going to get a big result. I'm absolutely sure that would come across the greatest approval and disabled faces, but also all the good people in this country. I'm talking about all people now because I think the biggest help for them is that we're not different at all, there's no difference, there's no problem. If no one says no, I'll feel sorry for him because he's weaker, I'll feel sorry for him because he sees weaker. No, he's my friend, he's my friend, and he's great, we're all the same. And we have the same girls, and we go to the same cafes, and we go to the same places, and so on. Let's make such an atmosphere so we don't have to be the ones to spread our differences. I think that's the most important thing for children, for adults and things like that, but mostly for children. There is no bigger and more important thing that we could do in such a way, and I think this is one little thing, and God knows what, one little thing that would show the public in Serbia how and how we can behave and how we can act like people and have a human attitude. And another thing, I made a mistake last time, and every time I make a mistake, I like to apologize to both Serbian citizens and those against whom I said something. I said something against Serbian TV, that people with hearing damage have no special news. It happened that at that time I was working, not looking, it happened that I accidentally included Serbian Television in the National Assembly, and I saw in some period, four hours in the afternoon or something, that they did have such a show, and once again I apologize to those I may have hurt because of my own mistake. So I think you could accept this, and at the same time I'm calling on those who have learned that on abuses, in machinations and human suffering, they're trying to score points, spending people's money, they're not doing it anymore. And I call you, Mr. Minister, as a member of the government, it's not your direct jurisdiction, there are other ministries, to deal with tycoons, with those involved in various criminal activities. Karic is not the only tycoon in this country. We're not against rich people, there should be as many rich people as possible, but who in a legitimate way will gain that wealth, but it is my request that you ask that the government deal with criminal tycoons in this country. You have as many as you want, go from the largest tycoon, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Hamovic, to everyone else. Do your job if you want to be a legal state in Serbia, to be a rule of law, if not, to question the elections, so we can finish the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25137	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25138	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 22. The bill reads, "After point 4, points 5 and 6 are added." And to see what points 5 and 6 are, I'm going to read the whole term, to see what the first four points are. Otherwise, this member explains what is considered to be discrimination over disability in employment. He says: "1. do not take into account the working relationship of a person with disabilities or a person with disabilities because of disability, i.e. because of the characteristics of a person with disabilities; 2. setting up special health conditions for the reception of a person with disabilities, unless special health conditions are laid down in accordance with the law; 3. prior examination of psychophysical abilities that are not directly related to jobs for which a working relationship is based; 4. refusal to carry out a technical adaptation of a job that enables an efficient work of a person with disabilities, if the costs of adaptation do not fall under the burden of the employer or are not disproportionate to the gain that the employer achieves by hiring of persons with disabilities". This is what Article 22 looks like. Proposal for a law, and by amendment I propose to add points 5 and 6. They would read: "The 5th is considered to be discrimination against the working relationship of a person with disabilities if he meets the general conditions for establishing a working relationship and the specific conditions required by the intended job; the 6th special incentive measures for the employment of persons with disabilities will be regulated by a special law". The amendment was not accepted by the Government for the reason it is said that this problem of discrimination on persons with disabilities in employment is resolved by members 18 and 20. The labour law. If yes, then why are you instructed and these four points, why didn't you say that the problem of discrimination over disability in employment was solved by Article 18? The labour law, and then you didn't even have to count these four points. Point 6 is rejected and you say: "Special incentive measures for the employment of disabled persons will be governed by the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, which is in the process". When in procedure, why did you put item 4 in Article 22, because you're at point 4 of Article 22, you're just talking about what might be stimulating in order to accommodate a person with disabilities. Here, first of all, I think that a number of jobs must be adapted, and you say that this must not fall on the employer's burden, or the employer cannot bear that burden if it is disproportionate to his planned gain. Then who will open up a large number of jobs needed by Serbia to hire people with disabilities? It is understood that this law will regulate one part of it by achieving the government, one part of local self-government, if the employer must not commit to making a single number of jobs to employ a number of people with disabilities in his environment. So, I don't understand, if a member of the 18th regulates this, you shouldn't have mentioned anything, you could have completely skipped this, or in one sentence you could say that it was regulated by Article 18. The labour law, and if a special law is already passed, I do not understand why you instructed in Article 4 one of the most important incentive measures, which is the adaptation of jobs for people with disabilities to be able to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25139	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25140	The government's position on not accepting this amendment best shows what the bill is. They say it's already been regulated by some law. I don't know what's more regulated here than what's regulated by our regulations governing working relationships. However, point 4 and the explanation draws attention to another phenomenon. We used to have these protection workshops, so they were meant to hire disabled people, so they knew each other, say, who has hearing problems, works in print shops, and those who have other problems work in other places. I think for 50 years it's been a practice for the blind to work on the plants, because it's been adjusted, they can get the job done in no time, etc. It is likely necessary to think about some incentive measure for those companies where there is a possibility that disabled persons do some work, whether full - time, or with other working hours. The greatest act of removing discrimination, the apparent, the hidden, the one that may and may not exist, is the inclusion of these people into so-called. Active life, to see that they are members of this society, that their work, no matter how symbolic it may be, has some value and has some social need. I can't tell you about Minister Lalovic, but I can tell you about that gunman-minister before he, the union guy, you know. There was a printery here where they worked disabled faces and he pretty much ruined it, for personal reasons. That's what the people in the ministry know very well. A few more protection workshops ruined it. If the minister asks in his ministry what she and Ljiljana did and he, the one about the Labour Act, international organisations, etc., and what he was doing about protection workshops, you will see that the inhumane relationship with disabled persons who were in a working relationship took place from the ministry, which by definition advocates the removal of all forms of discrimination. When a regulation is made, it gives a general standard, a general ban, etc., and in practice you can see that the treading starts from the first man, I'm not saying about you, Minister, but about your predecessor, who was trying to act as a minister, who is able to do anything and everything, but if he can do a little bit of printing or something. When it comes to working relationships, in addition to one regulation or two or three other, which, as a special, in the case of health, education, public services, but generally general rules, the Labour Act, which should and must have these non-discriminatory provisions regarding the establishment of a working relationship in the case of persons with disabilities and disabled persons, we just need to have another regulation that should allow for their rights to be guaranteed, so this is completely unnecessary. You refused what Mr. Rankic suggested, new points 5 and 6 and those points define all of this from point 1 to point 4. They're so general. You're well aware in your opinion that we shouldn't enter that when we have the Labour Act. I think this law has a big problem with that concept. Furthermore, we are now talking about stopping, preventing or prohibiting discrimination against disabled persons, so no matter how we define disabled persons, but we have failed to stop discrimination against people who are not being treated as disabled and disabled. A moment ago, Mr. Wolfie was talking about children. You remember that Boyic's child was beaten in school, cut his hair, Gordana Pop-Lazic's daughter, the problems she had, not to talk about other people. Who protected them from discrimination? If that's what those DS guys do, it's not discrimination. Why? Because they're doing it, and for God's sake, they're the picture under which it says "democracy." It's just like what they say -- it's a good drug, it destroys free radicals. Let him destroy the free Democrats. So, the angle of observation and that's where it's headed. If Tadic and his men do it, it's highly thoughtless, and if someone else does something wrong, it's nothing, it's a disaster, although maybe the difference is five days, maybe you were the first one to say it, and when you said it's primitive, it's just, you're not educated, all the worst about you. It's a psychosis that's created that way. I can make fun of whether all the conditions are met for some disabled people to get a job across the street, so I risk being misunderstood by people who are really disabled. I can't play because in that profession for 20 years I've been, I know, and I respect these people, by official duty, I've had to do some work for them and help them. So you need to be careful. When it comes to establishing a working relationship, we need to have a general regulation, we need to have several specific rules that respect certain specificities of the workplace, education, and when it comes to disabled persons, we need to have a regulation that improves conditions or the state affects the creation of conditions for their employment through a new tax policy. Today, technology and technology has gone so far that it's probably these most professional jobs done by people who are weakly mobile and can work at home, e-mailing their work. Generations and generations of our students work with companies in America via e-mail. Make some kind of program, some text, send it, that's where it's being verified. Formal-legal relations can also be that and now conditions need to be created, because there is a wide range of professions. You have disabled people who are very capable of hand-to-hand jobs, you have experts, architects, lawyers. My college colleague is a blind face, but five times he was a better student than all of us. He was the secretary of the blind-faced Association. Our colleague is an extraordinary lawyer. You've got capable people, you just need to help them get their affections into expression. We need that regulation. So, you sit down with Dinkic and you say, who hires people with disabilities doesn't pay taxes, or reduce taxes on income, or pay taxes, eventually get rid of contributions. The more those faces are on these jobs, but the employer has an interest. A little while ago, Mr. Antic used a bad example. He said we quickly solved the belts. We quickly solved the cigarettes. If there's a non-smoking in one office, there's a danger of an inspector coming in and punishing a smoker. If we go by that logic to solve the drug problem that way, that's where the problems are already coming in. To solve the problem of disease and social behavior in the form of homosexuality, he's going to jump half out of here right now and say they're minority rights. You see how that changes, and this may be even more dangerous for a social organism. If we only go to punishment, it gives some results, but someone gets the benefit of respecting the law. So, the intensity of allowing disabled and disabled persons to get a job, to take over some of their concerns about their existence through their work, but let's give this employer some honor, some benefit, some discount. This way, if we talk about it, that's how much we've given for those devices, what's it worth when he takes one, and then he says he's sick five years later, shut it down. Let's help him permanently. I need you to find me a private company that's been received by some blind person who's going to be working at headquarters.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25141	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Rodoljub Gačević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is against every kind of discrimination, especially against discrimination against people with disabilities, and God knows how many times we've repeated it in this assembly. However, discrimination can seem in countless ways, starting with verbal, physical, legal, so it is not only our goal to prevent discrimination by making regulations and declaring that we are against the declaration, unless it can be enforceable. So we want discrimination to be prevented in this way, by all regulations being enforceable and controlled. Thus, in this Article 27, which is said to be for transport, where transport is required for disabled persons, special technical conditions are created, that special means are then used for these specific technical conditions. In that case, prices are different, but these prices do not necessarily mean they will be high for the user. They can be stimulated by various tax reliefs in other ways, so that they are favourable to the users of these funds. We're here to prevent the service provider from being hit around the price, about the quality. First of all, I mean a taxi ride when it comes to the price and the quality of the service.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25143	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25144	We have reached the fourth part of the bill, and these are measures to promote the equality of persons with disabilities and Article 32 refers to the measures needed by the local self-government unit to take in order to somehow support these persons. Here's what Article 32 says. It's a bill of law. "The units of local self-government are obliged to encourage the establishment of support services for people with disabilities, to increase the level of independence of persons with disabilities in everyday life or to exercise their rights." That's where the regulation of this matter ends. Such a formulation of Article 32 may pass in the introductory parts of the law, where it is usually stated what the law will regulate and then take into account the application, development, operationalisation of these objectives. However, the flaw in this law, indetermination, declarationability, is best seen in this chapter. So what can be in the initial parts of the law here is the end. Local self-government units are required to encourage etc. We have said - units of local self-government are obliged to adopt a support programme for disabled persons within a year of the date of entry into force of this law. The government refuses and says - the amendment is not accepted because the deadline is unrealistic. I would understand that in the bill, the proposer said that units of local self-government are obliged to, say, for ten years, and here I said for a year, so the deadline is unrealistic, and here we now have a comparison between a year in the amendment and no deadline in the bill. Now I wonder if the units of local self-government, i.e. the government of local self-government under this law, when adopted, will come up with the idea that a procedure for the adoption of some kind of support plan for people with disabilities will be launched in the municipal assembly, etc. I don't think so. If they don't have any time in this law, they'll probably all take it as the absence of any real obligation. So I would understand if the government said that the deadline of a year was unrealistic, but if they said -- here's to two or five or ten years, then we could discuss it. This way, I don't think there's any room for any controversy between the promoter and us whether this deadline is adequate or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25145	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the law regulates the right persons with disabilities. The law we are discussing today in particular you have called a law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. It kind of seems better to me that it's called the law on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. You've defined yourself here, and we haven't put that up to you as some kind of remark. But our remarks, which you heard in the principle debate and now in the debate in particular, are that this law is really just a set of certain declarative norms that are optional. The bill does not cover everything that should be included. Simply, just as you wrote in your explanation, you proposed this law because you were bound by some international regulations. I think it would be good for you to deal with these problems both when you are not pressured by the EU and when you are not bound by international regulations, but rather by the state's problem, but in one real and honest way, not just as it is written in this law. The bottom line is what we talked about when it came to the Labour Act and the Employment Act, when you missed something very important, you didn't accept the amendments to the SRS. I will also remind you who are here, as well as the public of Serbia, that the law does not protect the disabled of these last wars in the sense that they cannot be fired. No one has any, no employer has the obligation to create some kind of program and to take people with disabilities to work and that's essential problems. The disabled are completely normal people, except they have some physical handicap, which is a gift from God, and they're not looking for any special treatments, but just asking that the state lets them live like all other people, because they really are the same as all the other people. That is why, among other things, this amendment to Article 33, which I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group. You have here predicted that units of local self-government are obliged to take measures to make physical environments, buildings, public areas and transport accessible persons with disabilities. This is really something that's just written, that doesn't make anyone bound and that doesn't mean anything. If it's not armed, then this could stand for a hundred years and that no local self-government would ever comply with this law. You said in an explanation why the government didn't accept this amendment of mine. The amendment is said to be unacceptable since the deadline is unrealistic. "The establishment of local support services is a continuous and continuous process that depends on many factors: a network of existing services, the number of people with disabilities, the need of people with disabilities. "This explanation is quite hypocritical, Minister, because indeed in your explanation you say that to solve these physical problems on public surfaces and elsewhere an unreal deadline of a year, it is really unacceptable for us. You're also saying that it's a process in continuity, a continuous and uninterrupted process. I agree, but for such a continuous and uninterrupted process, we don't need the law at all. Then we leave it to the will and the feelings and I don't know what else local self-government is, that whoever has the need or thinks they should, then, in continuity for this job, but until it's prescribed by a strict and strictly defined law, we can't expect it to really be done. I'm going to look back on the problem of wartime military disableds from these last wars and remind you, Minister, that in this field, the government of Vojislav Kostunica is doing almost nothing, that wartime disabled associations, except that they are registered as associations, have no chance of solving their life issues. The state must lead and it has always had to take care of these people, and to solve their housing problems, and to hire them, but unfortunately it does not interest anyone in Serbia. On the contrary, it is also of interest to the Serbian government and these special prosecutors and judges to arrest wartime wartime disabled people, to accuse them of war crimes, that during the Ovcara proceedings, a wartime military invalid dies and that he is not guilty. In the Ovcar procedure, you still have two severe patients and a serious wartime invalid, who are in prison because your special council has reached a first degree verdict that they are guilty of a crime on Ovcara, and they have made that verdict on the basis of statements of protected witnesses, i.e. a witness of associates, who were in fact executioners on Ovcara. You know that, and it is a problem to talk about in public and above all in this House, and we must not pretend blind and deaf that we do not know what is going on around us, what games are playing, how you're making some kind of preparatory ground, Carly del Ponte, how in fact you started this crime in Ovcara in front of this special court just to help Carla del Ponte in some way to accuse Vojislav Seselj, who, of course, does not matter, neither he nor the volunteers of the SRS. Two volunteers of the Serbian Radical Party, who left here as volunteers and fought in Vukovar, were both released, so your job was completely ruined. I mentioned all of this because it's really about people with disabilities, because, unfortunately, it's the most disabled in these last wars, and the least of them is the state's concern about them. Of course, I do not want to say to this that the state should not worry at all about disabled people, on the contrary, and we should keep saying that through these amendments, because I have proposed in the amendment to Article 33 that units of local self-government are obliged to make public buildings and public transport available to persons with disabilities within a year of the entry into force of this law. I don't see what the problem is or why it's a problem to do it within a year, and why you say it depends on the number of people with disabilities, the need of people with disabilities, etc. What does it mean if in one city we have fewer people with disabilities, that the city, or that municipality, does not need to take care of them because they are not in sufficient numbers? I will remind you of election campaigns and promises, Aleksandar Vukic here spoke about Nenad Bogdanovic's campaign and promises about what he would do in Belgrade for people with disabilities. Here, it's been way over a year that we predicted, and of course he didn't do anything. I ask if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is protecting the Democratic Party and its officials by such a bill because of that offer the other day that they will be at hand if the SPS MPs cancel their trust, that then these yellow ones will help the government of Vojislav Kostunica to do a little more work? Then, in order for you to agree with them, we have laws like this, in which you protect, in particular, Nenad Bogdanovic, first of all, who, along with Stanojevic, stole so much money from the Belgraders that we are no longer able to calculate and tell how much it is. Instead of putting it in their pockets, they could really do a lot for people with disabilities, who unfortunately have quite a number in Belgrade. Also, this tycoon Gilas, who says he's lying about someone who says his annual profit is five million, but it's two billion. Of course, he boasted of it, and did not boast of what he, of his so many couples, did for a group of these people and at all for Belgradeers, but rather allowed him to spend money on Serbian citizens in the National Office, and everyone knows that the National Office is a private company, i.e. the agency Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas, and that fecal adviser Krstic, as it is already called. So, instead of getting those stickers, which Krstic was talking about, they would rather take a little more account of the needs of the citizens of Belgrade and at least of the money they receive from the budget and from the citizens of Belgrade, of course through the budget, spend as the citizens of Belgrade expect them to, and not just take care of how personally rich they will be, how personally they will steal. Then I wonder, when I listen to this Dragan Gilas boast about that two-billion-dollar profit, how he manages to earn it. It seems to me that he recently told me that he was very persecuted at the time, as he says, by Slobodan Milosevic's regime. If he was persecuted, how could he take a monopoly over commercials on all the TVs in Serbia and that it was cheaper to advertise via his agency than to close a direct contract with some TV. If he was really persecuted, then the more interesting question is how? Since the DOS has been in power since 5 October, it has been able to become the richest tycoon in Serbia and that all crimes preceded its wealth, and how it, like no one in the world, like no one on the globe, can make a profit of two billion a year. Of course, when I say, no one in the world, then I mean in relation to his total income, where his profit must have been over 70% of the total income, at least that's how he explained it, and that's how he boasted when he was fighting with Velja Ilic, when they convinced each other who was a bigger thief and who stole more money than Serbian citizens. Of course, they were right about that show, both of them. With another sentence to call on the MPs, since the government has not accepted, accept this amendment, because it is really pointless that you have no limit, no deadline within which the authorities of the local self-government would have to comply with this law. Minister, you will admit that such a law really means nothing. If you just write it and leave it at the will of people, like Nenad Bogdanovic, and Bojan Stanojevic, then really people with disabilities will never get what the state of Serbia really is, and in this case the city of Belgrade is obliged to provide them with.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25147	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The committee's representative accepted the amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to article 42 of this law. I must say, I'm surprised he wasn't accepted by the ruling coalition. This is about a law that should, at least according to what we all have more or less formally advocated, to pick up a good portion of the votes here in this National Assembly, more or less all parliamentary groups formally hold the same views. If we are already talking about some standards -- whether they are European, world standards of the United Nations to which this law should bring us closer, then I really don't know what it is that prevented the ruling coalition from accepting this amendment. So you should still remember that this is about people with disabilities, about preventing discrimination, and this amendment really has nothing to do with daily politics. Legal improvement and acceptance of this amendment would allow better legal protection against discrimination against persons with disabilities. The amendment to Article 42 requires that a position (4), which reads as follows: "Employees with disabilities shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the costs of the proceedings in a dispute for protection against discrimination due to disability. "The reasons for not accepting this amendment from the government of the Republic of Serbia, it can be said, are odd at least. It is said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on a litigation procedure in Article 164 provides that the Court may, on the basis of its assessment, exempt the payment of the costs of the party's proceedings which, according to its general property situation, is not able to bear the costs of the proceedings itself. "So the article says, "In the course of making a decision on liberation, the court will appreciate all the circumstances. This is absolutely something that no one has questioned, and I don't know why you're answering something else, I don't see at all how these two things are connected. Therefore, there is a general rule that allows parties, which do not have the property opportunities to bear the costs of conducting the procedure, to free the court from paying those costs. We have asked on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that something that is the general rule in this case be taken into account each time, i.e. by law already determine that persons with disabilities in the process for preventing discrimination do not pay the costs of the procedure. In this way you would show that you are truly sincere when you say that you want to help, because that is the thin thread in which it is seen whether you are interested in providing someone with protection in fact, or whether you are just interested in declaring something as a right, and simply for the further fate of this law and the implementation of this law you are not interested in. This would not be the first legal precedent in that direction, since there are already some special rules when it comes to paying the costs of court proceedings, for example, wartime military invalids, the Military Disabilities Act, for example, are also exempt from paying the costs of court proceedings. So, there is already a principle in our legal system that certain groups can, for the reasons when it requires general interest and when special protection is required for certain groups, to free the payment of court costs. This should in particular be taken into account because the disabled are often in a position to be incomparably more difficult for them than for other citizens who do not have the capacity to do certain jobs or to find employment. Thus, they are already forced into a very narrow circle of activities that they can carry out because of their physical, emotional, or any other disability. Because of the situation itself, of course, they are very often and in a weaker material position, because I say, just because they have fewer jobs that they can do, then there are compensations that can be made less, and often it happens that such persons are not capable of having a job or making any money at all. When this fifth part of the bill is taken into account, it contains provisions that allow access to court and judicial protection to persons who suffer discrimination, and you say, in this part, a special litigation for protection against discrimination and disability has been carried out. This is just not true. I don't know if this law has been prescribed to you by Mr. Balinovac, but what is evident is that there is certainly no special litigation here. The first member of the 39th part of the law says that the provisions of this part of the law regulate a special litigation procedure to protect against discrimination because of disability. So, a nice declaration, so you say, disabled people are so important to us that we're even setting up a special litigation procedure for them. But the next article of the 40th is in collegiate with the previous one, so it says that the court procedure which is related to the protection against discrimination is subject to the provisions of the laws governing the litigation, if this law is not otherwise regulated, and that is what is normal, there is no special litigation procedure, but there is simply a few provisions of this law that regulate certain specificities, it is primarily related to local jurisdiction. In the very law on litigation, before that general local jurisdiction, there are certain specificities and specific cases in which local jurisdiction is defined differently. This is another thing that can only be treated like this, but certainly cannot be treated as a special litigation procedure, because he doesn't have three members, but here, through these two or three members, only certain specificities related to the anti-discrimination proceedings are regulated. What is also surprising to me are the provisions of Article 45, where it says that a person in Article 42 may, with an application for protection against discrimination over disability, during a court procedure, as well as after the end of the proceedings, until the execution is carried out, request that the court temporarily prohibit discriminatory treatment in order to remove the threat of violence or greater irreparable damage. What I find controversial is the adoption of a temporary measure after the end of the trial, until the execution is carried out. So here it comes from me, and I believe every lawyer, incomprehensible assumptions, that after the end of the procedure, the adoption of justice, it is said here, until the execution is carried out, so the execution is in progress, that a temporary measure can be sought. Assuming that someone doesn't want to respect the verdict and that they don't comply with the verdict, but you're giving the disabled the opportunity to come in nicely and ask the court, so they say we have a verdict, but we're asking that by a temporary measure, until the verdict is carried out, determine and regulate a certain state. Therefore, on the basis of which it is assumed that there will be possibilities to implement this temporary measure and that it is possible, firstly, to adopt a provisional measure, and then implement it before the verdict itself is carried out. This is definitely something that is illogical, here we should insist on carrying out the verdict instead of some sort of temporary measure after the procedure is over. The specificity of this law is that there are no criminal provisions. When it comes to laws that are much more important for the ruling coalition to be implemented and when you really, truly want to enforce some laws, then these laws honor, somewhere smaller, somewhere bigger, but very often these are dragon penalties for non-compliance in accordance with the provisions of a law. In this case you have not prescribed this to us in the best way tells how much you are essentially interested in implementing this law, because it is very interesting if you have determined in Article 16(1) that the owner of the facility is in public use, as well as the public undertaking responsible for maintaining public areas, is obliged to provide access to the facility in public use, i.e. public area to all persons with disabilities, regardless of their type and degree of disability. You further say that there are other persons to whom the right to use has been transferred, unless they have agreed otherwise with the owner or the competent authority. So you're saying the owner is required to adapt the facility in order to meet the conditions for meeting the obligations. We agree with all of this, but the question is, why didn't you in the final sixth part, in the final terms, determine that if he didn't carry out that obligation, he would be punished with this or that money sum. So, in this way, you transfer the burden of discrimination to the disabled, instead of having them in addition to that possibility, which stands in the law, the possibility of compensation and material and immaterial damage, but it is every single person for himself to turn to the court, to invest in this particular means of money, to invest a lot of time and energy. But what we're going to do is if a person with disabilities can't access the court and therefore finds it discriminated against, and for protection, the same court has to address it. There is practically a stalemate, because if there is no ramp for a disabled person to approach, if he is in a wheelchair, you are forcing him to address that court, that a court that does not respect this rule requires protection. It would be much better if, through criminal provisions, you had made it easy for the state authorities to go through some control, whether there will be an inspection, one or the other, whatever you want to call it, but that, following the application of disabled people, persons with disabilities, to go to a certain institution, to see if this law is respected, to impose certain mandates, and to order simply those responsible in the authorities for the implementation of this law to enforce this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25149	Thank you. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Nadica Momirov submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment, which they proposed to add a subtitle and a new member of 45a. The government and the Committee on Labour and Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted the amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25150	Thank you. I want, as well as many who have spoken before me, to express my satisfaction that this law has been found on the agenda of the Assembly and will be adopted. As the discussion progresses, I hope that it will be truly unanimous and that it will be the first law that has been voted in this way, because I think there really is a general consensus on this. Members of G17 plus during their work on this law had numerous objections, which primarily referred to the fact that the law did not contain criminal provisions. We have also submitted amendments concerning this, but after consulting with the Minister, the Ministry and the Committee on Labour, the fighting and social issues in the agreement, we have managed to overcome these shortcomings. I am truly expressing the satisfaction of the G17 Group of MPs, plus for that. What seems to me is still wrong, is that this law does not contain criminal provisions. According to the convictions of the criminal law lawyers should be found in the Criminal Code, and I sincerely hope that in the next period there will be a change in the Criminal Code which will define criminal responsibility for the offenders of this law, especially for those most severe violations of this law, and I think it is indeed necessary. As far as the amendment we're talking about is concerned, I also believe it's one of the key things that needs to be found in this law, and that's what many representatives of the disabled organisations we've been communicating with have confirmed. So, what is this amendment about? He says this - it cannot be proved that direct discrimination is done without guilt, if it is indisputable among parties or if the court has found that a direct discrimination action has been carried out. Now I'm going to remind you what the law says about direct discrimination. "Indirect discrimination exists if persons or groups (hereinafter referred to as: discrimination), in the same or similar situation, by any act or action, are placed or placed in a more unfavourable position or could be put in an unfavourable position because of their disability. "So this is about the act of direct discrimination, and it concerns those acts that are provided for in the complaint, or what the complaint referred to in Article 43 may require. A ban on the conduct of an action threatened with discrimination, a ban on the continued conduct of a discriminatory action, or a ban on the recurrence of a discriminatory action, the execution of the action in order to remove the consequences of discriminatory treatment, the finding that the accused against the prosecutor was discriminatory and the compensation of material and immaterial damages. This is the case when an act of direct discrimination is committed. I'm going to translate that into a specific language now. So, if we have a case that the owner of the pool has banned the entry into the pool of a person with disabilities and in a dispute before the court, and the dispute has found that there has been direct discrimination, that an act of direct discrimination has been made, the person who is the defendant cannot prove that he is not guilty of having committed an act of direct discrimination. This is not about criminal proceedings and the presumption of innocence is not at stake with this amendment. So it's not about criminal proceedings, it's about civil-law proceedings, civil-law protection. Therefore, the argument given by the government to me seems absolutely not to stand. So what are you looking for in a case like that? It is required that one who has made direct discrimination, where the parties have already agreed that discrimination has been done or the court has proved it, simply ceases with an act of discrimination or removes an inscription that is directly discriminatory. If there's a sign in the shoe shop - I'm not fixing the shoes for the disabled, he just needs to remove it, he can't prove that he didn't mean anything by it or that he wasn't guilty of releasing responsibility. He has to stop that moment with the act of discrimination. So that's what this amendment is about, and I really call on the MPs to vote for the bandage of the amendment, because they're not really threatened by the legal order, as some discussions try to say. The second part of the amendment refers to this - if the discriminated person makes it likely that he has suffered an act of discrimination, the burden of proving that there has been no breach of the principle of equality, i.e. the principle of equal rights and obligations, shall be borne by the opposing party. The reason is that this proposal is fully in line with EU and European court practices in the area of anti-discrimination. So this practice is common. Without this provision, the law will not be in accordance with Directive 2000/43/EC. The aim of these rules is to allow maximum effective protection against discrimination against persons with disabilities by facilitating the position of those who have been found in the process of proving their guilt, i.e. the fact that there has been an infringement of the principle of equality. I'm also not going to go into a legal debate, I believe a fellow lawyer may talk more about it, but I would like to invite you to really look at these situations in a human way. Many times since this law entered the procedure, talking to many people, I've heard certain fences of a guy -- this can be misused. I really need to ask a question. Well, everyone can be abused, why do we ask the question of abuse just when the most sensitive groups of our citizens are at stake? I can walk past someone now and he can say I insulted him, and he can abuse his right not to be offended, and he can claim I just did. Anyone can abuse a right, that's not why there's no defined procedure to protect someone's rights. So, in this case, there is no concern for me that people with disabilities will abuse it and now they'll just be complaining, because someone else will have to prove that they didn't do discrimination. Well, of course it won't work. But why this is important. It's important because someone who's been discriminated against shouldn't be found in a situation to constantly explain it, to be in front of the court, to constantly prove that he was discriminated against. I was really in a position to be an expert in cases, it reminds me of situations like these where people, in which one person was accused of raping a girl who had difficulty in mental development. Now that girl and her parents have to prove that it happened, they have to tell the whole story, and it's a really painful situation. Of course, it's a criminal case, and I'm not getting involved in it. But when it is a civil-law process, I really ask you to vote in favour of an amendment that will allow rooms with disabilities, regardless of what is the practice of the EU, which will allow our citizens with disabilities to defend their rights in a dignified way, and if they prove that it is a likely act of discrimination, as this amendment says, that those who have done this likely act of discrimination prove that they have not done it. I think it's really fair and I believe we'll all vote for something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25151	Anyone else on this amendment? Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25152	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, I'm going to have a little bit of a legal argument that the government has given to challenge the possibility of these amendments to settle some issues differently. Why doesn't the government accept this amendment? For the reason that, as one of the most significant human rights declared by the Charter of Human Rights, every man's right to equal protection of the right to proceedings against courts and other state bodies has been established. I want to tell you right away that's true. This is about people with disabilities, people with disabilities, by nature, things can't accomplish the same thing in the same way as the same rights. Therefore, they are facilitated by access to the exercise of rights by this amendment. So they're being denied the nature of things. They're equal rights among the equals, but here we're talking about some that aren't a little bit equal. That's exactly why this law is passed, because by nature things aren't the same. It therefore facilitates their access to institutions and shortens the way for them to exercise their rights. Furthermore, according to the government, the proposed provisions on the presumption of guilt and the burden of proof are not in line with the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, which regulate the proof. The law on litigation is not a law that would exclusively regulate the issue. There are many laws, some of which we have brought here, e.g. Family law, which as a lex specialis regulates procedural matter in certain matters and for certain reasons. These are precisely certain things and certain reasons, because it is about the accession of our courts to persons who, by nature, are in certain insufficiencys, physical defects or others who do not allow them to, as persons who do not have these shortcomings, approach the court and amount and make their statements of will. That's why they need to be protected and presumed guilty. That my claim is correct, I'll give you a few examples. I cited the Family Law that differently regulates court proceedings in certain specific cases, in family relations, when it comes to child protection, etc. When a party has a problem where it is necessary to intervene immediately, and it is matter of matter from, say, property relations, damage compensation, etc., civil rights, litigious matter, it is at the disposal of the arsenal of provisional measures under the Law on Prosecution. In these provisional measures, it is sufficient for the party to prove that there is a danger that he will suffer damage if something is not settled immediately, before the proceedings begin, even before the initiation of the suit itself. So it's enough to make something likely and it gets a temporary measure. This is exactly the kind of example we have here. I don't see why it doesn't fit here, when it's right. I want to tell you that the execution is carried out on a credible basis. So, the court makes a decision that only determines that the document is credible, no contradictory procedure is carried out and a decision is made. On the assumption of proof, I want to tell you this: both in theory and in practice there are so-called. Legislative conjecture. They shall be identified on certain issues, and where necessary in order to protect the exercise of the rights of certain groups, persons or individuals. It exists in this situation, because we're always talking about people with disabilities. I'm going to tell you a classic situation when it comes to the immovableity of the common property or the content of the marriage mates. A legal assumption is that each of the mates has one half of it. Whoever claims otherwise has the right to prove it, but it is a legal assumption. I'm going to refer you to certain provisions that require it. I don't see why there's an inability to do that here. So it's a civil procedure that allows such a thing. I don't see any excuse for the government to refuse this amendment. I think the amendment should be accepted. I think he is legally possible. We on the Legislative Committee didn't even refuse this amendment and I don't see why not accept it. I suggest that the government accept this amendment and that we vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25153	Under the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25154	You wrote the amendment for nothing. This amendment means that there is no basis for accountability in this country. You're fighting it. Minister, you didn't accept this? If you haven't accepted, let me back you up, since this law school thing can't be handed over to people. Now let me tell you how you wrote it. He says, "It can't be proved that direct discrimination was done without guilt." Why can't it be proven? If you're suing me and I'm supposed to be held accountable, in this case be civil-legal liability, it's not criminal responsibility, it's a very important matter of guilt to determine my responsibility. It is not a problem that you have exceeded here, the problem is that you have forgotten what it says in Article 6(2) where a definition of direct discrimination is given. It's a public act and a public action recognized as discriminatory -- you can, and you can't because of disability. You forbid a defendant to defend himself in the act of his responsibility, where she can say--please, it's done so because of these and these circumstances, but I have no guilt about it. You can't in one of these general acts make it impossible for someone to defend themselves. Secondly, legal presummation doesn't apply to guilt. He set an example of shared property and co-inhabitation. It's a status question, it's a condition. The question of responsibility for guilt is a matter of action or inaction and whether he was obliged to commit or not. Someone who told you this, he's nothing but a elemental post-op responsibility. And material and not material responsibility from civil society, it's often based on guilt when it's personal. We have a situation and objective responsibilities for a minor, for a mentally ill person. The legal person's responsibility is always objective responsibility. It's somebody's fault, so the company's answering, and so on. So this can't. The Legislative Committee had to refuse this, to say that this is not legally possible. This is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He says, "If the parties are indisputable or the court has found out." So, you can't defend yourself by saying-- I'm not guilty, if it's undeniable between you or the court has determined. In order for the court to determine, he has to conduct some procedure, and in the process the party can do whatever it wants, it can defend itself by silence, it can present evidence. You cannot, in principle, destroy this law. I don't know, seven or eight members of the Law on Prosecution, and this disfigured, which the minister mutilated with his expert team, must be given the opportunity for each party to plead. She's self-evaluating the evidence she's about to present. We can't say that someone will defend themselves. In every way possible, I will defend myself in court, my God. Furthermore, in the rest of the sentence you give some presummation: "uncontested". If it's undeniable, people don't go to court. Or, "if the court has established it." He had to establish in some procedure. The other attitude says, if discriminated. So you've already defined everything at the beginning. So, the disabled person who turned to the request is already being discriminated against by you. You can't say that. "If the discriminated against makes it likely that he has suffered an act of discrimination. "It's always something likely when it moves with the procedure. When a man sues, he thinks he's right, but in order to proceed, he has to do something likely. For what? In order to establish judicial jurisdiction, to see what the case is, so that the counterparty knows what it is. The burden of proof that the act did not lead to an infringement of the principle of equality. Twice negative definition. No one's gonna understand that. I think it's a good thing you didn't accept this, because this would put a mix-up in, and it wouldn't create the legal presummation that you wanted to achieve. Each litigation party is free to decide how to defend itself. Legal presummations exist, and there's no such thing as this. This isn't even a legal presummation, this is some kind of procedural presummation. Whoever proves what is proved and what is not proved? It's not a fault to assume. It's got to be proven. In a simple case for damages, whether material or immaterial, guilt is a very important thing. When an individual is sued. There is an objective responsibility, but by definition this is not a matter of objective responsibility. That's what this is about. There's something you wanted to do. I don't argue that because of the copying of something from abroad, there's been some kind of translation error, but that's what gets us a whole different meaning. Let the advantage in terms of facilitating the conditions of such a person to come to court for the protection of his rights, I agree, I should, and I said at first, give something that would be some positive discrimination, a relief of certain conditions, but you have introduced a completely new institute - protection against discrimination. A moment ago, by explaining this amendment of yours, you said you hoped the Criminal Law would change, so this would be punishable by that law. This law prescribes criminal acts, not these. Leave the matter alone. Criminal law prescribes criminal acts, elements of a criminal act, based on whom to see what an injury is, who can do it, under what conditions and what a sanction it is. Now you're going to force Stojkovic, and he changed the Criminal Law two or three months ago, passed a new one, now he needs to re-engage the new law. No, he's supposed to be building a new task force, and he's just about to do a new criminal law now. He can't put crimes scattered under individual laws. As he submits the law, he puts in a new criminal act. You've been passing the new law for nothing, they've ruined it for you right away. All acts of discrimination are incriminating and here to be clear. Probably a third of the crimes are based on a violation of the prohibition of discrimination, different discrimination. We have an electoral right, in establishing a working relationship, religious, racial and other hatred. These are all crimes aimed at sanctioning the abuse or violation of a ban on the conduct of discrimination. On top of that, you throw in what no living judge could apply. So in the voting day, I pray that this amendment is not accepted at all, because there will be cream on the cake in non-application and inconsistencies that this law can cause.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25155	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Nadica Momirov submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment, which they proposed to add a subtitle and a new member of 45b after Article 45a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not accepted the amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. You'll explain, Mrs. Momirov, but as long as technical conditions are created for work, a two-minute break. [[After break – 12.55]] Since technical conditions have been created, please welcome this amendment, MP Nadica Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to Article 45, i.e. after Article 45a, a subtitle is added - Other persons' lawsuits and a new member of 45b. The amendment itself reads: "(1) The right to appeal under Article 43(2) and (3) of this Act, the right to submit a proposal under Article 45 of this Act, as well as the right to initiate an executive procedure, shall belong to: - domestic and foreign organisations of persons with disabilities, as well as to organisations for the protection of discriminatory groups, i.e. the protection of human rights; - persons who, on their own or together with other persons, are aware of access to personal and direct checks of applicable rules on the prohibition of discrimination in concrete cases, reporting to published advertising, to places where public services are provided or otherwise. (2) If discriminatory treatment concerns only a person, organisation or voluntary investigator of discrimination referred to in Article 1(1) may file a complaint or a proposal only with his consent. (3) If a volunteer interrogator has not filed a complaint, the court may hear him as a witness, and if he has filed an action, he may be heard as a party. "The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group believes that if we put this amendment, or if this amendment becomes an integral part of the law itself, the achievement of the basic objective of this law, which is the introduction of equality, protection and equality of persons with disabilities, will be improved. In fact, we can say that we have a very well-regulated issue of the protection of human rights, both by the Constitutional Charter and by a series of other laws. If your right is violated, you can sue him, and you can be satisfied by getting a lawsuit. However, the injury that occurred, or mental pain, remains. That is why we need laws that will be able to regulate the issue of protection of human rights in a different way. That is, to encourage or stimulate society to change consciousness, to lead to society in some way increasing citizens’ awareness by dealing with the problem in a completely different way. On the one hand, we also have cases that people with disabilities are often tightened or afraid to initiate civil and legal protection proceedings. As a result, we believe that we will have a much more favourable situation by legalising voluntary investigators, by allowing good measures to be introduced that can bring society into a state of protection and equality of persons with disabilities and their introduction into social life. There are different examples. For example, in some countries you have a chance that not only is it possible for other people to file a lawsuit, you also have positive measures by recording certain emissions that lead to public opinion having responded and giving positive assessments, i.e. changing citizens' awareness of the relationship with people with disabilities. So in England, shows of discrimination have been recorded to prove that there are discrimination in society, regardless of the number of good laws. We can have the same case with us. So, in addition to giving other people the opportunity to sue or be witnesses, you can also influence the improvement of the condition of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25158	Anyone else on the same amendment? National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25159	Thank you. I just want to explain briefly some of the possibilities this amendment provides. So this is about whether the lawsuit we've already talked about can only be filed by the person to whom discrimination has been made or on his behalf can be done or otherwise someone else can. I want to say that it is a very common case that people with disabilities, unfortunately, a large number of people with disabilities, precisely because there is discrimination both in education and in other areas of life and work in our society, are very often not sufficiently educated, although they often do not have much information about what their rights are. That's why I think it's very good at this stage of the development of our society's awareness of discriminated persons to allow a situation in which the protection of their rights will be able to carry out by someone else. Therefore, this amendment refers to the possibility of filing a complaint by other persons and, above all, to organisations dealing with the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. I must really remind them that they have made a very significant contribution to this very law and its adoption by persons with disabilities, and we cannot deny them the right to have the opportunity to press charges in cases of discrimination. I want to say that this would not be a legal precedent for the reason that, as the lawyers I've spoken to have spoken to have said, I'm really building myself up, because I'm not a lawyer, but I think we all know that because it's about the matter of the law that we've brought ourselves, it's about the Information Act, where it's about hate language and human rights organisations that are allowed to press charges. So something like that in our law already exists and it would be no precedent to allow organisations of persons with disabilities to press charges. Of course, it is stated here that if there is discrimination on a particular person, then it must give consent to press charges on his behalf. Everything else would also be a violation of his basic rights. Then, voluntary investigators of discrimination, what is a newspaper in our legislation, but I think it's also one newspaper that will help significantly reduce discrimination. This is a possibility for people to be deliberately found in a situation where they will be discriminated against and thus prove that discrimination exists. I would also like to say that this would not be a precedent because the Serbian Supreme Court has already confirmed such a decision, which is the case of Roma discrimination at the pool in Sapco. So, in that case, two couples were voluntary investigators of discrimination. One couple were Roma, the other were not Roma, and they went to the pool to examine whether discrimination existed and confirmed that it existed. They filed charges, and the Supreme Court confirmed the court's decision in Capco, which proved that there was discrimination. I believe that voluntary investigators of discrimination are needed in a situation where it is clear that our society discriminates not only on persons with disabilities, but on various marginalised groups. I like to use another example. We've passed, we have a law prohibiting the sale of alcohol and cigarettes to children. How are we going to know whether this law is being implemented or not? By taking the kid and sending him to buy cigarettes. It will be a voluntary interrogator in this case of the application of the law. So we can examine it differently. He can't stand next to every kiosk standing by an inspector who'll be chasing cases. It is far less likely that we can prove such a situation in this way. Of course, it is better to examine discrimination directly in such situations and directly determine whether discrimination exists or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25160	According to the same amendment, MP Alexander Vukic. According to the Rules of Procedure, I apologize to Mr. Vukic, MP Peric called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to advertise the Rules of Procedure in the work - the demeaning of the Assembly and MPs. Who last night looked at the B92 dual adviser to the president of the Republic of Tadic, Mr Krstic, with Oliver Antic, could hear that the MPs of this assembly were thieves, to steal, to rob the Assembly, etc. President, you keep saying here in the Assembly to protect the MPs, to protect this assembly, but last time this was advertised, and nobody's doing anything. Please let us take a stand in the Assembly, that this would not still be happening, because some really care to demean MPs and the Assembly, so that they would be in the front row, and Oliver Antic said last night that the Assembly should act, how much the Assembly has done, but that some of these parties want to change it, in part -- to demean the Assembly, while on the other hand -- where the money is, that it is much more happening. There is no money in the Assembly and everything that has been given to MPs, it is according to the current Rules of Procedure and by the decisions of a certain commission. Therefore, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Justice Minister Mr Stojkovic, and ask if we can ask the court for justice, because he did not just go by name, but called all the MPs that they were thieves, that they were stealing and robbing the Assembly. The next thing I want to say, he's talking about MPs from some parties, but we here in the assembly have, from a place from which he mentions MPs, MPs from the DS who also charge for the current cost rules and everything else that belongs. I guess one MP from Leskovec doesn't charge travel expenses in one way, and the DS MP charges in another way. If I have certain expenses up to Nis, Bosko Ristić probably collects the same costs. Does that mean the MPs are stealing from his party? I acted earlier, and I would ask the president, as I reported that he was breaking the Rules of Procedure here, to protect the MPs in this assembly, to respond to the cameramen who are filming our MPs here in the Assembly, to enter for several reporters, to hide in corners, to squat behind the bench, and to wait for some MP to move in some way to take an interesting picture and put it in the paper. They're constantly spinning around the bench and watching as the buckles from the corner whether there's anything interesting to record. So I think they should film the Assembly and let us do it, because this is how they do it, I don't think it's allowed, and I don't know who allows it. I ask the President of the National Assembly to have that in mind, too, in the work of the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25162	Thank you, Mr. Perry. To answer to Mr. Peric, you've advertised two kinds of protections in the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the second, coming to take office as chairman of the vice president, who had done so for the past two hours, he received a question from reporters following the Assembly, what kind of decision it was, I didn't know, but I asked around, and I informed myself, and that's the only way, that the Assembly is working on the Rules of Procedure. In contrast, only MPs can attend the session hall, proposing representatives and those guests who, for a reasonable reason, are invited by the president. I suppose you share my opinion, because all the parties that have their MPs here are for the public, that it's a good thing that there's a possibility at the beginning, before the session starts, that the photographers, the cameramen, they're just making their jobs more attractive, making a living. But in the course of the session, in case an MP asks, for holding order at the session, because he feels he's being distracted by one of the persons who have no right to attend, then the chairman will react. I have been informed, Mr. Pericic, that the chairman reacted that the secretary, in relation to that reaction, had protected you and that the persons who, because of the attractiveness of their work, did not realize that they were obstructing the work of the session had left the session. There's no reason to make drama about it. So this is an explanation you accept? Thank you. When it comes to this second, first of all, don't expect me to regularly monitor television shows and what people in them are saying, it's really not in my job description. On the other hand, the President of the Public Assembly, on behalf of all of you who participate or do not participate in the sessions, gives detailed reports. In contrast, anyone who does his job seriously knows, the Assembly is an institution that is far the most efficient of all institutions in the country and has spent the least of its money. These are facts, and everyone has the right not to know the facts or to present any kind of incorrect data. Here MPs, as I have already said several times, the President of the Assembly cannot protect you in any way. Thank you for understanding. Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, for waiting, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's only one time I don't agree with Mr. Peric, let them record what they want, that's their job, let them do what they want. I agree with the latter, but don't let Mr. Peric worry, he was trampled by Professor Antic last night who was "stabbing the musket," which would have been said in our people, politically speaking, so they went as they wanted. That deserves a few more explanations, you'll allow me to use a few of my moments, within the time of the amendment, to answer that. They mentioned the Shop and every day they mention the Shop. They say the MEP took a total of 20,000 euros from the Shop. A man takes it for a year because he travels to the session and back. It is the farthest place in Serbia. The fact that they don't have an MP from there, that's their problem. However, they are talking about travel costs of 20,000 euros. They have the largest tycoon in Serbia to report fivem euros in annual profits to the state. Look at the difference. Dear MPs, I brought you something. I'm surprised no one is familiar with this. It's about "The Voice of Serbia", from February 2006. With a little attention, you'll hear something you didn't know. The municipal manager of the municipality Jovica Mihajlovic from, believe it or not, the Democratic Party, yellow, said -- he announced that a referendum for the detachment of the trade from Serbia and the accession of neighbouring Macedonia would be launched soon, unless Serbia quickly resolves the bag and this area under emergency assistance with twom euros. Their price is 2m euros for the destruction of the state. Now I'm interested, Mr. President, what's the D.A. doing? So, for two million euros, Mr. President, I'm gonna get you a copy in a break, and I just got this as evidence of the Democratic Party's crimes, so I'm asking if the price of two million euros is enough for someone to lift the state, to separate parts of your territory? He's telling you openly, for two million euros, I'm leaving this Serbia. They have some spare countries, they have other countries, respected citizens of Serbia. Do they talk about travel expenses, Mr. Perry, the ones that aren't in this room ever. We're here every day and we work from morning till night, and they don't even look at the postcard of the National Assembly, and the salaries are received, Mr. Peric, as much as we do, plus the sheets, and they never showed up. Is that true, Mr. President? Tell the Serbian citizens that from the moment they didn't enter the Assembly they spent not two but 32 million dollars of money on Serbian citizens without entering this hall. Oh, or no, that's right, 32 million. Now I'm asking, who are the thieves in this country, who are the thieves and the destroyers of this country, did you hear Mr. Minister about this, if he has to answer for this, I think by law, he has to be ex-officed to be prosecuted by the prosecutor. If he hears, and now he's heard, I guess he heard, and if he hasn't, we'll write to him, if he won't read. It is those who do nothing else, but watch as they rob the state of Serbia, how they will destroy it, destroy it, those who can't even win fairly, but have to frame it. As he ran over them yesterday and Uroš Šuvakovic, and they had to set them up in a different way, because they couldn't do anything else. And it's not because they're all DS, because it's a DS license, it's how it has to be. To get back to this, so that you can keep quiet about the Shop, let them never mention it again, because that's where a poor woman lives who can't look at them in 750-euro shoes. Tadic came in 750-euro shoes, and the other one in 680-euro shoes, Đilas, the largest tycoon in Serbia. One of the 750 euros and the other of the 680 euros, I'll tell you the store, Mr. President, if you say it's not true. A handsome man who's registered and one shoe who's three and a half percent the average salary of Serbian citizens, so watch what it looks like. And all nice and honest, and all good. To get us back, with respect for what Mr. Peric said, the man was really right, but we don't need any protection, I think we protect ourselves best when you let them speak as much as possible. This way, when you let them show what they're thinking, there's a photograph of the one who's asking for the secession of the Shop from Serbia, because it's asking for two million euros. She's not very impressive, to be honest, but what do you expect from a man who thinks... Yeah, he's prettier than Gilas. We're going into discrimination, just a little bit, I know it's 45, and it's called 43, but only to find it, on other people's charges. In principle, we would not mind that something like this is happening and that various associations, domestic and foreign organisations dealing with disability issues are allowed to do so, that so far, in previous court proceedings on some other issues and on some other issues, it is not misused. In fact, the bill itself states that a suit for the protection of persons from discrimination against disability can be filed by a person with disabilities or possibly by his companion. What you're doing is expanding the so-called active legitimacy in filing a lawsuit, but what we think is that there is a possibility, it's legally possible, it's a legal solution, to create opportunities for a number of abuses, so that with more money an organization could fully monopolize its position and they would be the ones that would determine what it is, and what is not an injury, and not an individual, no one in any way could protect their rights. Here's an example for you, today you have the false rights of individuals, the rights of Serbian citizens, to protect some NGOs that you have spoken of yourself, and then some know when they apply, so it will be settled in their favor, and people are sick because they know how much they work against the state of Serbia, starting with Natasa Kandic, and so on. Then if there is a new Natasa Kandic or new Sonja Biserko or new Biljana Kovacevic Vuco and says, "I have created an association to protect people with disabilities, all of you come to me, I will bear it to you like that, and for that you give me money from the outside, give me money from the inside, I will abuse it for both political purposes and for all else, and what did we get from it?" Will these people really be protected? Whether they can protect their rights, if we can secure them from all discriminatory proceedings; we will not. I think that's why, even in this sense, if it were to expand the active legitimacy of filing a lawsuit, this is too wide-ranging and leaves great freedom and opportunity for numerous abuses. I don't think that's necessary anymore. I also have one objection that Mr Krasic spoke of here, no more changes to the criminal procedure, no more you will change them, people, we have secondary criminal legislation, three months after the criminal law is passed, bigger than I am a criminal law. Wherever you turn, whatever sphere of social life you turn, we have crimes, then it's being prosecuted under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and no one alive can find what exactly is a crime and what is not. It doesn't say in Criminal Law, but it does say in the Law of Discrimination, it says in the Traffic Act, in the Law of Trade, in the Law of Business, in the Law of Privatization, who lives to capture all crimes, and lawyers don't get along, no one gets along alive. The judges can no longer catch up, especially with that new set of crimes that came in 2002. Nobody gets that alive. So it would be good not to extend the measures to all other laws, and of course, it's also true, if there hadn't been these amendments to G17 plus, there wouldn't have been any form of law, but it would have been the form of a declaration, so however you turn, we're in trouble, but I don't think this member should have to accept, expanding active legislation on the prosecutor's side, and in any case, I don't think that this would help reduce, or increase the possibility of discriminated persons getting judicial protection. So, we have a constitutional category that all citizens are equal and enjoy equal rights to judicial protection, absolutely all of them, but there is no discrimination, nor is there a disabled person. If you wanted to state this in the declaration, it's okay, they listed both disabled persons and possibly their subsidiary followers have the right to do so, but I think that organisations that are not affected by anything, but are founded because of this, these organisations are founded and I will tell you why, mainly because of profits and personal wealth, and very rarely for truly altruistic reasons. We have examples here, I'm going to say one that you're all going to agree on, regardless of party membership, in our country that comes, I'm not talking about businessmen and investors right now, the first sentence when they land at our airport or the first sentence in the media domestic, where first they make good support for their rites, they come forward and take over some businesses, companies, any media houses, it doesn't matter, so first they say, I want to invest in this country, you don't let me invest in this country, and I want to invest in this country. It is true that some people are not allowed, because they leave monopolies for others, and criminals, and tycoons, Gilas, Hamovic and so on, but let's put it aside. Many of them cheat on the people, not their motive, what they want and what they love about this country, so they're going to lie here. Their motive is to earn money, the sea. A businessman told me the other day, I want to invest here, but don't lie to me, I want to invest because I want to make a profit. I said, I know, you don't have to tell me, it's something normal, that's understood. So don't tell us the charity story. Here, we're humanitarians, ready to invest 100 million euros in this country. Well, you're not ready to invest 100 million, you're ready to make another 100 million euros. Now, that's the way it is with these organizations and associations, which, unfortunately, most of the time behave like that, I can't say everything and I can't think of generalizing, but I don't think anyone here can know or can in such a way protect those faces that would be compromised by any discriminatory measures that an individual can do. I think that norm in the proposed law is quite correct. And I expect, Mr. Minister, your reaction to this terrible crime by the Democratic Party, which requires that the trade break away from Serbia. I ask of you, if you do not believe me, I will immediately deliver this to you, Mr. Minister, so that you may read, and I will also deliver it to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm shocked, I'm honestly shocked, and I can't believe someone like this came up with something like this. The price for this country is 2m euros. I had no doubt that our Serbia had a price for them, but I didn't hope, I couldn't even think about it, I know that everything has a price for them, but I didn't dream that the price of the state would be this small. That's what Gilas has in four months. For the four-month profit of Gilas, they would sell the state. Here's proof, yes, is that a clean bill, I used to know the math well. Four and a half months from now, I'm sorry. In four and a half months from now, they would have sold the state. Now, Mr. Minister, let's see if the state will react or the prosecutors will just arrest those who otherwise disturb the political elite, and they won't think about how and who threatens Serbia's country and how and how they will destroy our Serbia. We don't have a back-up country, those who have a back-up country shouldn't be in the highest-ranking position in this country. This is a man in office. This isn't an ordinary member. This is the manager of the Department of Commerce's pronunciation. These people have to answer, and we have to look after Serbia, because I've repeated it a hundred times, and I'm going to repeat it a thousand times from this pay phone -- we don't have a spare country. Those who have it don't have to be in Serbia either, but we won't let them take Serbia away from us, rip Serbia apart, even if it's two million euros in their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25164	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. First of all, I welcome the representatives of the Emigrant Mother, who are now watching the work of the Assembly from the balcony. Thank you for following the work of this institution. I have to say right away, Mr. Wolfie, don't give me a copy of this paper for a very simple reason. The president of the assembly will never act on newspaper writings, whatever it says, but solely on the basis of information within my jurisdiction, just as I have to repeat, not to be confused, it is my responsibility and I believe that you all support me in this, to protect all MPs and their rights, regardless of how they will use them. Please, there's no reason for inaccuracies. All MPs have the right because the elected voters sent them to parliament, they have all the right to receive the salary, to receive a flat-rate, all of what they have several years ago in the previous meeting, as you know, by making the decision of the committees in charge of the previous one, and it is my obligation, which I regularly fulfil, if MPs have time so that they can travel within parliamentary co-operation, I sign it, I have just done so, and it is not up to me to decide whether they can do so because they do not participate in the meetings of the Assembly or not, it is up to me to protect the rights of MPs and to expect them to adequately represent the Assembly, and all MPs then respond to the voters. Please simply that it is not correct to call on the President of the Assembly to assess whose work it is, what it contributes. So, I just thank everyone who's in the previous period, working both at sessions and on committees, not only what's visible here but also beyond that, it's representatives of almost all parties, that you've all contributed together to spending less money than the budget is determined. In doing so, we all know that we discussed this when the budget was too limited for this institution, that the National Assembly succeeds in doing so with its work, the MPs who participated here in the second half of 2005, to further ensure that our country's debt is reduced and I thank you all for that, and I expect you all to boast and finally that everyone who cares about taking the views of their parties, and that you have all done so, allow the Assembly to speed up the possibility of starting negotiations for European integration. This was done by all those involved in the work of this Assembly in the last half of 2005. We have, of course, received a report from the European Commission. Of course, everyone has the right to choose when and in what way he will participate and answer to his constituents. Please don't call me responsible for that. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. I don't suppose you're happy with the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25165	Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, since I count that Minister Stojkovic has come out to inform the Attorney General, this is no coincidence, I have copies of local "OK radio" 102.2 megahertz FM stereo. The following is said: If the government doesn't do something soon, the municipality of Trgovina will disappear from Serbia's geopolitical map and we suggest that we are ready to organise a referendum that will decide whether it will continue to be part of Serbia or join Macedonia. These people are criminals. I'm just expecting a reaction, Mr. President, as I've shown it to the minister, as I am now showing you, I expect one of the competent state authorities to react to this. See what else they said, which I was not able to read right away, I have now read: the management of local self-government The Shop advocates that this municipality also gets special status such as Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. Because it'll make them more money. People, they're not just criminals, they're not normal. I don't know what to say. So, I've heard a lot that's going to happen in Serbia, I've seen a lot of things happen. Mr. Secretary, new information for you if you've already informed the D.A. Among other things, let him know quickly. Among other things, they're looking for special status like Bujanovac, Presevo and Bear again for money. They didn't raise the price here. The price for secession from Serbia is 2m euros. That's as much as the biggest tycoon Gilas in Serbia in four and a half months, or what his profit is. He boasts of making a lot more. And one more thing, Mr. President. When they talk about travel costs and I don't know what, so in 2002 only one of their MPs, you know how much inflation he's been raising on an annual basis millions and 400,000 dinars from Nis, not the Shop. This regulation has been passed by the Democratic Party and we have now abolished them, and the Democratic Party, which is now not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because they like to take money away from the people without doing anything, because they find it hard to do anything, except I count on some of them to show up to put a card in and get out so they can sit there even though they don't have it, someone else is accusing them of something like that. I demand a response from the competent state authorities during the day, Mr. Minister, first of all, because you're in charge, what has the state done? I once again inform the prosecutor in charge that some criminals have tried to separate and try to separate part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The criminal's name is the municipal manager from DS Jovica Mihailovic. Name and last name, because I don't like to talk in my head and I don't like to talk in vain. (President: Time. ) With the name and last name, but also the entire management of the municipality, with all known Radovan Stojanovic, advocates giving special status to the municipality of Trgovište. Did you have a similar example in any country in the environment or, God forbid, in Serbia? I've never heard of him. I have heard that there are all kinds of people, that there are also those who take money, that there are those who are honest, and those who take care of citizens and those who do not care. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President, thank you for your patience, but I think you've come to understand the importance of the subject I'm talking about. That in a criminal way like this someone wants to destroy your country, Mr. Minister, I've never heard that before, and so openly "the price for my country is two million euros". I'm going to insist on this all day long until I get an answer as to what the competent state authorities have taken on this matter. Did you see that, Mr. Perry? There's no doctor who can cure it, not even Milkovic. There are some competent institutions that could help, but there's not this one, or the kind of doctor who can help, but what's next. Mr. Minister, I ask you to take these measures, because Trade is a beautiful municipality, poor, in which it lives, if you will, 100% Serbian animal, and it doesn't matter, all other citizens are equal. These are people who love this country to Serbia, who love the freedom of this country and who would never accept living in another country, as these criminals suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25166	Mr. Peric has reported to the Rules of Procedure. Before I give you my word, Mr. Peric, I fully understand, Mr. Vukic, that you have asked the minister of justice, and there is the minister of justice, so he will answer you. Once again, I'm telling you, I've turned 50, I've listened to irresponsible statements from various irresponsible people, the president of the assembly will never respond to someone making irresponsible statements, completely irresponsible, selling something that isn't his, and in doing so, he points out prices, and I'm about to conclude on the basis of newspaper papers. I tell you one more time, I will always act on the facts and on the basis of my authority and I will not react in these situations. As you know, the Constitution does not prohibit stupidity. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for the interpretation of the President of the Assembly. When he explained it, it's a little unclear to me now. Let's not get to the other point, the first thing here is the president says he doesn't watch TV, there's no time, he's very busy, etc. The key is that the advisor to the President of the Republic, Mr Krstic, was shot from health care, or did he leave or think he had more money in the National Office, I don't see any doctor leaving his profession, he said last night publicly on TV that the MPs were thieves, that the MPs were stealing. That's what I asked of you, whether this National Assembly should discuss the issue too, because the insults are great, and I have called on the Minister of Justice, if we can ask through the court for our injuries. Next thing you know, Mr. President, if Mr. Krstic says he's been charged a mile more, etc., I'm asking you why the DS MPs are receiving salaries, sheets, parking in the garages, one salary only on the parking garages, when five months don't come in and do this assembly? Is that stealing? I know, that Sutanite guy's gonna come out, and he's gonna say, "We don't bring our money home, we invest, we help the poor, and so on." I'm sure he's lying. Where they're going to throw money out of their pockets, they've only learned to add, there's no taking it away from them. So that's why I called. I think what was in that duel last night at B-92, that's terrible for the National Assembly. It's not much of a problem with us MPs, but they don't count on this to be the Assembly. I can't even tell you how bad he said that about the MPs. They put the People's Office first. If this president of Serbia is smart, what will he do to that smart man, 20 counselors? If he's being advised as a Baptist, there's nothing he can do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25168	Mr. Perry, I gave you an explanation earlier and you accepted it. I remind you once again, MPs exercise their rights based on the decisions of the Administrative Committee. Some decisions were made in the previous session, some in this, where there is now restrictive behavior because there was a suspicion of abuse by individuals. That suspicion has been removed, all data is public. Please don't ask me to make any difference between Members and I won't do it. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic. Let's just say hello to the second group of emigrants who are visiting us. Welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25169	I welcome you all who have come to our and your National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I have come out because, by respecting your relationship and your attitude, you have responded correctly to the senseless and savage statement of counsellor on the fecal issues of the President of the Republic. I have nothing to blame you for. I don't think that man can offend anyone. Those statements are dangerous because they speak of the nature and character of the government, but in order for someone to offend you, you have to think something good about it, and it has to mean something good, something to represent. That's why I'm not interested in it, and I'm not going back to it. I'm interested in something else. Mr. President, I am not asking you to prosecute, I am asking Minister Stojkovic to inform us, neither can he take charge, but to inform us of what the competent state authorities have taken on this matter. I know exactly what the authorities of the state are. Here's another piece of evidence. They're still defining it. Since the materials are coming in from hour to minute, Mr. President, evidence of the crime is coming in every second. Among other things, they said, besides finding that for the DS, the cost of the state is two million euros, otherwise they move that part of the state to another country, they have now said exactly how they're going to do it geographically, that you don't think it was a metaphor. He says: "We are announcing a referendum to join neighbouring Macedonia, or the municipality of Krivna Palanka, which is divided by only one hill behind Kozje dol." Mr. Minister, what is this prosecutor waiting for, which someone isn't telling us, which he hasn't already sent a press release to prosecute the criminals. What's he waiting for? If someone is allowed to do this in this country, it means they can do anything, that they can absolutely do anything. Not all newspapers have made their statements. Here's a transcript of what they said at the press conference and on the radio show. Let me tell you again, it's some Radio OK, 102.2 megahertz, FM stereo. So you can check and look for a likely tape, disk, floppy or anything, to get exactly what it's about. I ask that this be done because it is a good preventive measure against all those who want to destroy Serbia, to know that in this way they cannot and must not treat their country and their children. What he says-- you didn't give us enough money, we're gonna split up and go to another state. Imagine now that we're going wherever the radicals rule, we don't like the G17 Plus government, the DSS, the SPS and the SP, let's take Shyd off a little bit, break off the Kickinda, I don't know which municipality, half of Vojvodina to separate half of Serbia. I don't understand what this is about. Please, Mr. Minister, let us know during the afternoon, I don't insist on stupidity, it's not our interpartial disputes, it comes and goes, they tell us and we tell them and nothing, that's understood. Whether Gilas is the largest tycoon in Serbia or the second tycoon in Serbia, it can be discussed, whether it is bigger, Hamovic or possibly Miskovic, however. If you thought I was afraid to say a name, you were wrong. (President: Time. ) I have to tell you one thing, when they said in time that Karic was giving as much or as much, I have to remind you, I went out for this pay phone and said, and now I'm not going to do it because he's in such a situation, that I'm proud of never taking a dinar, and I know many who are. Anyway, think carefully, it's to argue whether Gilas is the biggest tycoon or the second. It's discriminatory, there's somewhere, those two criminals Gilas and Hamovic, a dead race. That's for thinking, but there's nothing to think about, Mr. Minister. I count that the authorities of the state need a lot of time for these large tycoons to prepare the indictment, to prepare the application, and later to the competent authorities to prepare the indictment. And that's what they do. That and B92 have something to do with it? I don't think so. I thought they were all fair capital, and that for 60,000 euros they took the whole TV, with all the equipment, the national frequency dad and mom gave them, dad and mom from the government gave them this building for rent. (President: six minutes. I'm finishing up, Mr. President, I know you're interested, too, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25170	No, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25171	Believe me, it is. So, Mr. Minister, I expect an answer from you this afternoon, not only do the SRS deputies expect all Serbian citizens to see, the whole of Serbia is waiting for you to tell us what the competent state authorities have done about these criminals. If the state is not going to do anything about these crimes, the announcement of separation and action of concrete ones is therefore not ideological, it is taking concrete steps to hijack part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Someone has to answer for that. We expect your response in the afternoon, Mr. Minister, we'll be waiting for him by 5:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25172	Papers and radio waves suffer everything, so I have no intention of responding. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, on the basis of Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment proposing that the title and new members of 45a, 45b, 45v, 45g, 45d, 45d, 45d and 45e be added after Article 45. The committee's representative, at the Committee's session, accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 46, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The committee's representative, at the Committee's session, accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Slobodan Lalovic, the minister of labour, employment and social policy, want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25173	I am glad that this legal proposal has received majority support in this congregation. It will be adopted and I hope that all MPs will vote for it, regardless of certain objections. I think it is very important for this system law to be adopted and essentially to initiate this process of activities within society to address the problems involved in the application of these provisions. I could talk here about more cases or examples of discrimination in a particular life, but the simple time has expired and on the other hand, it seems to me that all of you here essentially know about these phenomena. I stress that because of the need to keep in mind, since there was a dilemma in the statements whether we needed law and so on. I think it's quite clear that this law is necessary. I think these interventions, by accepting amendments and by defining the violation provisions in this law, we've also foreseen solutions that I think are good. All in all, this law is the first step. There is a very fast law that will be before you, and today there has been a lot of talk about it, it is a law on the employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, which will very specifically regulate certain matter in the direction of positive discrimination when it comes to this group of citizens of Serbia, as well as a number of other regulations that we will propose in the meantime, which are in the context of the Government. There was another topic open here, and it's a question of where the protection workshops in Serbia are. Under the law I mentioned (about employment and rehabilitation of disabled persons), the issue of protection workshops and DES will finally be settled, in several directions. There are now 62 disabled companies in Serbia, of which 22 of what we call DES, 35 protection workshops. So, in any case, this matter, which is said to be a need, will be arranged during this spring with a series of legal provisions, so I think it is quite clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia attaches special and concrete importance to the need to finally regulate in Serbia in a valid manner the position of persons with disabilities, to improve their position and that they, in a certain period of time, with the efforts of all, become truly equal citizens of society, not only at the level of ideology and floscule, but really. Namely, the government has no intention and does not want this topic to be misused for political purposes either, but simply understands this as a need to act in the interests of Serbian citizens. The discussions held in the Assembly show that all MPs understand, accept and support this, and I think it is a good basis for us to successfully implement these activities in the coming period. Another note that had nothing to do with this law, but I was simply provoked by this debate, the mention of the famous Shop. A year ago, I went and visited the Shop in my regular activities, saw all the poor and the torment that exists there. Unfortunately, not only in the Shop, but in another number of Serbian cities, the only thing that gets paid is what gets paid by the state. So education, health care, local economy is in a terrible state. And there's one thing I'd mention, what people said to me there when I spoke, where they saw salvation for them there. They see for themselves the opening of the border crossing. They count if a border crossing to Macedonia opened there so that the whole part, the one on the right of Vranj, would make everything live. Depending on the second, I take the opportunity to say it here, and I think people are right, and let's all help open the border crossing to Macedonia together, and that the whole end of Serbia will help bring it back to life economically, and I wouldn't go into another. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we still have municipalities that we call devastated areas, as it is said in a foreign language, in fact very impoverished municipalities, it is not only the Shop, both Lebanese and many others, Major and similar, in which to go. In particular, with all that will be said, it is now a political issue, I suggest that we all help to see what they see as a problem to open the border crossing and make that municipality live. Otherwise, we're going to experience one thing very bad and this process is already going on, and that is, I would remind you here, that from such ends Serbia is in the process of leaving the population. In certain municipalities, we are reduced by a serious absolute population, and if such substances continue, in some not so far away period, not only in the Shop, there will be no one there to live, there will be a wasteland. So I think the real question, the real issue, and the RS government is going to do it, is to help economic measures to keep the people alive there. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25174	Thank you. Sorry to distract you, technical problem, but we have to finish now. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Of course, it's not the Shop. It's our Shop. We're not paying attention to the statements of the incompetent people. And, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to inform the competent institutions, the president of this assembly is at the request of citizens, and not local officials, discussed, and other institutions are involved, there will be additional conditions of transition, that is one of the reasons. The second reason why there is no need for anxiety is the citizens of the Shop. They know where their land is. Therefore, we have no reason to remind them of that. Thanks again. Pause until 15.00 hours. Continuing the search of the second item of the agenda, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details and general. [[After break – 15.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE REHABILITATION (specificities) At the same time, I would like to inform you that we will be working normally by 18.00 hours today, whatever point is on the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Zoran Krasic, Branislav Rankić, Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radeta, Milan Stevović, Miljko Čevrić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natasa Jovanovic, Istvan Ispanović, Petar Cvetković and Ljiljana Nestorović. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the same time, I would like to inform you that I have been informed by Prime Minister Zoran Stojkovic on behalf of the Government that the amendments have been accepted by MEP Istvan Išpanović on behalf of the Government: on the basis of Article 2 submitted by MP Istvan Ispanović; on Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic and on a proposal to add a new article 7a submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. I thank and move on to a discussion in detail. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Milkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on rehabilitation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The bill is short, unspeakable, inapplicable, there are no prescribed criteria for its application. The SRS will not vote for this law, it has tabled amendments to delete all eight members. Here's why. I would ask Mr. Stojkovic to answer a few questions. Article 1 of this law provides for the rehabilitation of persons who have not made court or administrative decisions or those decisions, for political or ideological reasons, life, freedom and other rights since 6 April 1941, or the date on which Hitler's Germany invaded the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. What is the reason and why this very date was taken when we know that before 1941 there was also persecution of political opponents? Just to remind you, the law was passed, a six-year dictatorship was introduced, prisons were full, especially members of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and even two congresses - the third and fourth held outside the country - Vienna and Dresden. To answer that question, why was it taken on April 6, 1941, so to speak. The second question, this law does not cover the following issues -- whether it can rehabilitate Serbian citizens who have been tried in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. It's a question not covered by this bill. Third, what about the people who were tried here in Serbia, and now live in other countries, former SFRY republics. A large number of Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia are tried there. What about the Albanians? That's not regulated in the proposal. Following Belgrade's release on October 20th 1944, without trial, by emergency procedure, according to a decision by the military courts only in Belgrade, about 10,000 people were shot, and in Serbia around 100,000 people were convicted in Serbia, about two million of them for ideology or politics, either lawyers, lawyers, doctors, actors, these wonderful people, farmers who did not give grain to buy, refusing to join peasant cooperatives. I think this law will hardly apply in these conditions. This applies to this Article 1. If you can, Mr. Minister, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25177	Thank you. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25178	Without the intention of going back to what we talked about in the principle debate on this bill, it will be really difficult, if this law is passed, to apply a value court. According to Article 1 of this Act: "This law regulates rehabilitation (probably meant by procedure, way, and how a decision is taken to rehabilitate a person) of persons without judicial or administrative decision, or by judicial or administrative decision, for political and ideological reasons, life, freedom or some other rights from 6 April 1941 until the date of entry into force of this law, who had a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "It is so broadly set that there is no objective criterion. I have to say, from 6 April, if you've just taken that date, to be more precise since 1948, 1949, so many things have changed until today in terms of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms, take this European Convention itself, and in the 50th, 60th and some years, and in 1976, something has bound us only since 2003 when we joined and became full members of the Council of Europe, and it is only a few years ago that we have the right to seek before the European Court of Human Rights to conduct appropriate procedures to determine whether certain acts of authority have violated any human rights. In the meantime, it was a kind of human rights gene. There's been a change of perception of human rights. There was a change of perception of the state, of sovereignty. It was a block division - East and West. Not to mention all the historical socio-political traumas the nations have been going through. I do not dispute the intention to rehabilitate something, but it is very difficult to determine what political persecution is. It's never been so naked that there's been political persecution. It may have been in 48 years, down to 60 and some years, where, because of public thoughts, persecution was carried out, perhaps because of the same-mindedness around something; at the time it was a counter-revolutional attack on the state. We saw that those against whom the anti-revolutional merger procedure was conducted at the time were a different formulation, for the protection of the state and constitutional order. In the meantime, they became champions, human rights fighters. Here's an example, you have in Kosovo and Metohija, terrorists have become human rights fighters. All those released at the end of 2000 and in early 2001 since Merdar were welcomed as folk heroes. From the point of view of the existing relations in the Republic of Serbia and some value system, no matter how perforated, undefined, these people are terrorists always gonna be terrorists. You've put some pressure on them to reduce that pressure on the state, on these, etc., but they'll always be terrorists. Now you're proposing that they be rehabilitated, because someone might say they're being persecuted for political reasons. Adem Demati, he spent more time in prison, and now he is a human rights fighter in Kosovo and Metohija. We heard about the Shop here this morning. So it started in Kosovo and Metohija, first in terms of fighting for human rights, and then freedom of expression of thought, and the West of pressure must not have verbal delinquencies, and in the next phase after political interests there is an organization and eventually become folk heroes. Would anyone in France be allowed to make a statement like this unfortunate store manager? Probably, as soon as the first page started printing, the police would come and arrest him. Why? So you're destroying the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state and that's perfectly normal. Next, he says, deprived of life, freedom or any other right. You specifically took the 6th April 1941, so you still took a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, limited only the territory of the Republic of Serbia that it was. Please, as of April 6, how many of them have been deprived of life; according to this, and during the bombing, people have been deprived of life for political reasons, because of the world view, and in 1999, you know, there was a referendum, and 99% of the citizens have defined themselves for something, they've all defined themselves for something. They're deprived of life, and who deprived them of their lives? NATO bombers, and you went from 6 April 1941 to the day of entry into force of this law. So, people's rights are being violated today, but we don't know what a valuable court is, we can assume and talk, Vojislav Seselj wrote a book, they condemned it, they banned the publication of a book, etc., was denied for some right, which right, was violated by his freedom of opinion. He's to be rehabilitated, he should, according to your criteria, but you won't rehabilitate him, because the district court judge won't rehabilitate him. He won't, and for what? When his estranged mandate was here, there were some MPs sitting here, currently not in this meeting, Zarko Jokanovic, there was Desimir Tosic, and if you are now rehabilitating under this law because of what happened in Gjilan. And what happened in Gjilan; he climbed on the bench and said – please, people, the rally is forbidden, thank you for coming in great numbers, let's split up so there is no incident with the police. As he started with the police, they ran, picked up, kicked, kicked, something in jail, and a state of emergency, a curfew seduced in Gjilan. They've conducted proceedings before a judge for violations of public order and peace, and that will be your judge's case, or someone who says, please, there's a legal basis for which it's not a political problem, and we all know it is. Now I ask the question, if it's the living actors of events, the living ones of political persecution, what do we do with them...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25179	Mr. Krasic, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25180	I want to draw your attention to this formulation that you are giving such a disposition to a judge who should judge, that he should assess what was at one point human right, that at one point he should say who was the persecutor, who was exiled, in which way he was persecuted, and I am telling you, from 1941 to today, human rights perceptions have changed. You see, you don't even go to it here, you go further than the ones at the lustration. This is like the Lustration Act, sort of. That's what you have to say. The Lustration Act went with an imaginary assumption that someone was violated by human law, and it must no longer be in public life, and it does not dispute in that law that it is a person who is supposed to be lustrated who has acted according to the law. So, by law, it was working and it was changled. You now have a situation here where there will be no decisions, no regulations, no laws, it's one group. The second group is where it's with some regulation. Where there was a regulation or some reference to a regulation, there is a problem that there is no objective criteria in the law. Then the judge who has to judge should put his finger on his forehead and think, yeah, if I find that this face should be rehabilitated, the NGOs will attack me, so they'll say, it's the villain, he was in the short pants on the naked island, he was living, laughing at his friends who were locked up there. Besides, that's how they talk about Dobraka Cosic, Goloocian trees and stones throw at him, even think he's among the living's greatest culprit for their stay there, but please, it's now the greatest human rights fighter. Or Micunović. It's the same thing with Micunovic. Or what to do with those who pointed. You had the beginnings of some Serbian opposition in 1988 and 1989, Kosta Cavoski, Vojislav Seselj, Kostunica, Micunovic, Djindjic, and he sang Djindjic, and he failed them when they were at the police station, and you're hugging your shoulders as much as you want, but that's what's written in the books and it can't be deleted, it's all registered. What criterion to apply? If you take the standard Dragoljub Micunović, Desimir Tosic, their interests, their reputation in society, then everything they did in the past was right. I'm telling you, some things weren't right. He takes the mandate for a glass of water, so a glass of water is Draško Markovic, and it is not Vojislav Seselj. No, Vojislav Seselj is going to jail because he allegedly resisted. Is that political persecution? Is political persecution, probably in the SPS of the former government, everyone has some criminal record, they have, and it's a persecution. Furthermore, a minister who was the secretary of the extraprofit commission was sitting in your shoes earlier. I'm telling you that extraprofit by the letter of the law, as it's written, it's an unconstitutional regulation, everybody knows, it's pure political persecution. Should these faces now seek protection from the judge, will the judge give them? He'd give them that they're from the DS, the Democratic bloc, and if anyone from the SRS comes forward, there's no protection for him. Why? The system of values is not the same as the judge. The problem with this law is that the material regulation based on which he will rehabilitate someone is located with the judge, essentially with NGOs, at your Mediation Centre, which exerts pressure, the Society of Judges, they form criteria, they determine what they can and can't go through. I know so many people who have been in custody for ordinary posters for two or three hours or two days until I get him out of jail. Are you saying that it wasn't environmental, they violated public order and peace and municipal harmony in the city because they were glued to posters? What Bane Ivkovic has arranged to fight, they will be rehabilitated, and my radicals who have glued posters will not be rehabilitated. Based on what I'm telling you? Based on how it's wide-ranging and in the next members how it all depends on the judge. I'm very interested, in order for the judge to make a decision on the basis of this law, what that decision should contain. How he will determine that 20 years ago, Janko Jankovic, the district court judge, who banned the destruction of a book, violated human rights or some other right of persons to be rehabilitated. What's it going to be, based on what criteria? If it calls for regulations from that period, it may be possible to establish some kind of failure. But I need to draw your attention, it was a first-degree procedure, a second-degree procedure, a judicial end. We are now reviewing judicial judgments, judicial decisions, final states, it was legal 20 years ago, and after 20 years, it produced some legal consequences and we are now rehabilitating it in a very strange way, and we don't know what the criterion is. You here should have a definition of what political persecution is. Look, you guys had free artists up until 20 years ago. Here's an example, and even no movie is that "Plastic Jesus." The film was thrown into the bunker, a case against the author was conducted, even prompted by Captain Vuk Obradovic at the time. Why would it be political persecution when he's an individual? He doesn't have a political party, he doesn't have political ambitions either, but someone got scared that his film might give another picture of Tito. And the movie wasn't even published, he ended up where he ended up, and now he needs a judge to rehabilitate him. There are no regulations, this isn't the regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25181	I thank you, does he still want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, in the work of Jaroslav Hasek, Good Soldier Schweik says you can talk about whatever you want, whatever you want in Parliament. I think it's a lot of serious stuff, there are a lot of examples that don't refer to what we're talking about here today. I think those people who have suffered and who we need to rehabilitate in some way really don't deserve to discuss modern heroes of modern events. I'd much rather deal with those people that we all know apply to them. It says that this law does not really justify those who talk about it. As far as Article 1 is concerned, which is proposed to be deleted, I am against eradicating Article 1. If Article 1 was deleted, the rest of the law wouldn't have made any sense and deleted Article 1 was actually not an amendment, because the amendment would have been a legal amendment, and this is actually a denial of the law. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is not an amendment. That is why the Legislative Committee treated him as well. Why, on 6 April 1941, the deadline was set as defined. I'll remind you of the law of insignificant regulations passed before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation. It is a regulation that provides for the application of the legal rules that have been passed, these laws that were passed by 6 April, but not during the enemy occupation, so that all these regulations are invalid, but only the regulations are adopted by 6 April as rules if they were in accordance with the then applicable constitutional system, and what was adopted during the enemy occupation is nothing and could not be applied in any way. It is precisely taken as a date because the moment is practically interrupted by the legal continuity and from that moment on, a new state, the legislation of the new state, or the legislation of the new state, refers to the legislation of the old state and to the legislation of the occupiers. That's why he took that date. Changing this is actually not possible because the legal consequences have just come from this date. That's the answer to that question. Will this law then apply to some people who are our contemporaries? I believe he wants as much as possible in accordance with the provisions of this law, so I'm talking about Article 1, where it's being noticed or resented that there are not enough elements to distinguish what is a political or ideological reason. I want to tell you that the further we go into the past, the closer we get to those 40s, the clearer we become to those who have made decisions. Maybe those inspirations aren't clear for the past decade, and I agree with my colleague that there might be different questions. However, it is clear to me that in the 40s, there have been many people who have been killed and who, without any doubt, can be subjected to political and ideological reasons. I'm going to specify specifically, I can list more people, but I'm going to list one because of his family's approval to release this information. It's about Glavaska Sava from Voloshinov. Let me remind you, Voloshinov is now New Vienna, a municipality and place on Tisa in Banat, now threatened by floods. (President: Where the president of the municipality has been removed. I wouldn't share those details now. So it was Savi Glavask who was a paor, the peasant was, he had a multi-member family where several generations lived in one household and worked out the amount of land that for the present situation and then the situation was not God knows what. But the problem was that they were worth it, that they were doing well and that they were building on that property, and a series of other people next to them. Sava Glavaski, who was a paor, means, who had no billions, millions and nothing but his own hands, was arrested, executed for failing to deliver the grain. Let me remind you, this is a Regulation on the buying-in and transport of bread grains in the economic year 1945 and 1946, which lasted five years. Of course, since he didn't deliver the grain, he was taken barefoot like that, in a shirt, you don't know exactly where. That's what he was meant to be, so two days after he was taken, he was tried in Zrenjanin. The verdict fell on September 2, 1947. He had some right to appeal and some defense attorney. You can imagine how long that second-degree procedure took, so it took 10 hours, exactly like that. From the conviction of the first degree to the second degree sentence and the composition of the appeal, it's been 10 hours. First-degree verdict on 2 September 1947; second-degree verdict on 2 September 1947. What's going on on September 3, 1947? Since the host or the "grandmother," as we say in Banata, is gone, they come home to his son, they find him in the house, and they make up September 3, 1947, so after 24 hours, the record where he's taken everything. I'll be free, there's time to read, there's reading and stuff like this and I think this is interesting and instructive. I read this for the citizens and for everyone else. A record drawn up on Volosinov, on September 3, 1947, at the scene of the defendant Glavas Sava, he was already convicted, the defendant writes, in order to confiscate property based on the judgment of the Sredski Court in Zrenjanin, number K849/47 of 2 September 1947. So, on September 2, 1947, a first-degree and second-degree verdict was passed, and on September 3rd, they confiscated everything from him. They are present by the court Apostolović Radoslav - to send an official of the Sresko National Committee, by the Local People's Committee Volosinovo - Palinkas Istvan, Nicin Pera and Popov Milovan, on the other hand - Glavaški Luka son, and of course Popov Milvan called Makara - the acquirer. On the basis of the judgment of the Srega Court, the property is confiscated for the benefit of the state, and the following things: two syringes for the vineyard, one piece for the tail, one piece for the hand crown, one piece for the small barrel, one piece for the iron barrel, one piece for the pussy, one piece for the crop green, one piece for the pig, eight pieces for the pig, one piece for the sower, one piece for the sun, one piece for the ground, one piece for the ground, one piece for the wheel with three points, one piece for the long war chariot, one piece for the yellow cow, one piece for the horse’s rake, one piece for the loaves, a piece for the horse, a piece for the horse, a piece for the loavest, a piece for the loavest, a piece for the plows, one piece for the grain, one piece for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces, one piece for the pieces for the brits, one piece for the pieces, one piece for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces, one piece, one piece, one piece, one piece, the pieces for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces for the pieces, one piece, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces for the pieces, one piece, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces for the pieces for the pieces, the pieces and the pieces, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces of the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces and the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces and the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces, the pieces and the pieces and the pieces, That was a joke. So he says, "Set down in the village of Voloshinov, in the house of the accused: two pieces of iron beds, two mattresses, eight pillows of feathers, two of which with no cover and three with cover, two white sheets, two sheets of bed sheets and one pillow, two pieces of double-winged closet - used, one small eight-angle table, two-pieces of mahogany, one chandelier, one chandelier, one small guard with three bulkheads, one oval polytired table, 24 pieces of spoons, four pieces of trays, 15 pieces of forks, 14 knives, three spoons, one piece of rakiya bottle." I'm gonna stop here. It's really degutative to read what they did to a man. That man was locked up in Nis. He had this "happiness" so he wouldn't be in a camp in the Decians. There were 5,000 grains in the Children's camp, which were so "observed and anointed", where a tomb of grains was created, which are now in the Decades. Sava Glavaski was closed in early September 1947. He died on 7 March 1948 "in the presence of the authorities". The son of Sava Glavaško writes on November 24, 1947: "My father Glavaski Sava, a warlord from Voloshinov, has been convicted by the powerful verdict of that court since 2 September, which has been confirmed by the local district court since 2 September, because of the criminal act of suppressing illicit trade - the purchase of cereals, the four years of imprisonment, with the confiscation of all property, and is now at the detention of the sentence in a penitentiary home in Nis. The reasons are that my father did not carry out his obligation to deliver white grains of 200 metric cents, but only 70 meters, so he violated the regulation. As his son, I submit this request and ask for the relevant criminal records to be sent to the Presidium of the National Assembly, which, in turn, I ask my father to pardon and release for these reasons. I do not find my father innocent (see, the son speaks for the father "I do not find my father innocent"), but I claim that, as an older man and a peasant, he is ill-written, so he disregarded his civic duty to inform the people's authorities in time that he will not be able to equate the obligation provided for in terms of wheat and counted lightly that he will already do so by himself. In fact, this country has been beaten twice this year by ice, and in addition it has been a weak year, and therefore my father should have done it in a timely manner by the Meat People's Committee and the obligation to make sure that grains are less mandatory. So it happened that we totaled 50 metres of wheat from all our land, and the obligation was 200 meters. When Father saw that he would have to extort everything because of his negligence, and it was a weak offering, he bought another 20 meters, and after his arrest by the court, we got another 30 meters so we'd bid twice as much as he gave us at all, but that's only half our obligation. We couldn't get any more. We thought we'd have extra corn, so they'd buy wheat for it, but since they took all our land, we couldn't get anything for it anymore. It is now the third month as my father is in prison, he is a sick man, and I believe that this punishment will influence him eloquently and in the future he warns him to better obey the orders of the people's authorities, so I ask that this appeal be respected." Of course, the complaint wasn't respected and he died there. So I speak for 8.821 peasants exactly. Multiply that by at least six, so you're going to get a far larger number. So many were killed by grainers, people who didn't deliver because they didn't have any. I'm talking about them. I'm not talking about contemporaries. I say the deeper we go into that story, the more I'm sure it'll be very easy for the judges to decide on this. Imagine a lawyer who dared to ask for a verdict. There were lawyers like that. We don't have that verdict until today. He's writing a lawyer for the Novobesian Sava Eremic, pre-war. He says, "Two months ago, I made a request to issue a copy of the file of confiscated property for Father Glavask Milutin Sava, which he needs for judgment. I beg to be betrayed immediately." He prays to the court officer Milorad from the court in Voloshinov, and Milorad says to him, "Savovo, why do you make it so complicated and blurry? We don't have those solutions because it's gone and, as far as I know, it's been destroyed." So, after a year, there's nothing. That's what I'm talking about. I don't want to say anything right now, but there were a lot of people who didn't get anything from the paper. At least these guys have records of what was taken from them. There's a copy of the book of the dead, the record is with me and a request for pardon. That's what people are behind. These people are gone, but because of these people, we have to say what we think about it. Not only because of them, but because it would never happen again in Serbia. So please and I suggest we pass this law and give up amendments that are not in line with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25183	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25184	The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, not so far away, four or five years before, in 2001, about 40,000 people, Socialists, members of their families, friends, acquaintances, those proposed by the SPS were subject to political persecution. It was allegedly "democratic" by Serbia, DOS and 18 satellites. No one raised their voice and there were no big words, no one from that coalition to say that it wasn't exactly what we Socialists were saying about this pay phone. This was the revolutionary effect of the new government and the result of the counter-revolution carried out by the DOS on 5 October. Admit it or not, it is a counter-revolution, someone came back in 1941. This law is the continuation of that story about partisans and Chetniks, is one revision of history, is one attempt to continue further review, but now through some calls for court decisions, since the court will pass judgments, as my colleague says, it will now change judicial decisions on the basis of statements, evidence and so forth. It shouldn't be in this room either, and in Serbia too, no one should be naive and think that's not the case. Yes, it's a history review, because if it wasn't a history review, why would it be taken on April 6, 1941? Why don't you take some dates before, some date after? Why April 6, 1941? There was no political persecution before? What about those few thousand communists who were lying in prison during King Alexander just for their own ideas, political conviction? We don't count them on people, or we count them on some special people that the law doesn't apply to. I suppose they too have some surviving members of their families who have the moral right to seek rehabilitation. They left someone behind. They spent a year, two, three or more in the prisons of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia for their idea. They're out of rehab, aren't they? They don't need to be told anything? I heard from a colleague the other day when we were discussing, saying "it would be logical to take the day of victory over fascism, if someone wanted to find a suitable date that would not be remandism and the revision of history", 9 May 1945, the day of victory on fascism, the day that celebrates the whole of Europe or the whole world; or with us 15 May 1945, when war operations were completed; or if someone wanted to be fair, the Interim Government of the Democratic Federation Yugoslavia, it seems to have formed in March 1945, then they were representatives of the royal side in that government until November 1945. So they were part of that government back then. What do we do with that? Can we mention that? The promoter only had in mind the revision of history. Those who represent this idea and support this law will not publicly say that they have a completely different view of events during World War II. We saw it through this law of partisans and Chetniks. I have here a telegram of Slobodan Jovanovic as it says Draži, and I will read it to you when you are already talking about Slobodan Jovanovic, when he teaches him how to guard against the Germans in order to preserve the citizens of Serbia. I've only taken relevant documents and I'll quote British documents. Those who funded the Chetnik movement gave up on them, they told them - they can't anymore, and you don't spend money on what you should and don't fight for the goals of allies, which is to fight against Germans and Italians. Some people in this country 60 years after World War II cannot swallow the fact that World War II was both anti-fascist and people-free, and revolutionary, but also civil war. They can't swallow it at all. There's something they'd like to forget, something to put aside and a whole new history to come up. Do you think you can move on with that? The other day, "Politics" transferred an article from our neighbouring Hungary, where a communist Jew was sentenced after 60 and a few years for illegally holding a weapon because he shot a fascist cop who then exercised power. History review also after 60 years and a few years. It's not our invention, but it should be strong enough and brave enough to say, yes, we're trying what others are trying to do. It is known what happened 60 years ago, and none of you, of the proponents or those who represent these ideas, can change history, for this government will pass quickly, and so will another one, but this relationship to history cost us our heads, because this relationship to history and our values costs us our heads because when we need something, we call on continuity. You heard earlier, the continuity of the state on April 6, 1941, why DOS submitted an initiative to have the SRJ recognized as a new state, why when there is continuity, when there is a new state. How easily we gave up everything at one point just for some short-term political or material interest. So, the ultimate pragmatism that prevails, but since this is a law on rehabilitation of those who participated in World War II, let me mention a few things that are undeniable facts. Whoever doesn't believe or likes to listen to this is his problem, and those who are interested in this topic will be reminded of some facts. Supporters of open co-operation with the occupier, or in a world known as the Quislins, settled around General Milan Nedic, whom the Germans appointed prime minister in Serbia in August 1941 and the leader of the pro-fascist choir Dimitri Ljotic, who, logically and their fate, tied to the great victory of the Third Reich and, of course, the new world order that the Germans then created with their satellites. Supporters of open co-operation with the occupier, led by General Nedic Milan and Ljotic Dimitrije, tied Serbia's fate to Germany's victory. For the Yugoslav refugee government and Western allies, they will be the Quislins, and for NOB traitors. To achieve their primary goal - the destruction of the people's liberation movement, Milan Nedic, with the permission of the German occupation administration, forms so-called. The state watch (or this does not exist in a history written by some political option or coalition of parties, perhaps there is not what I quote) divided into a city, Polish and border, which numbered about 15-20 thousand soldiers, and Dimitria Ljotic created a Voluntary Squad, which had about 3,200 soldiers. The overall activity of these armed forces was directed against the NOP and in the service of implementing the resources of Serbia's Pacific. Do you know this idea of Serbia's pacification? So now, after October 5th, there are those who promote the idea that Serbia should give up all its values, as well as countries to be as acceptable to the so-called. The democratic world and that it should condemn itself for the politics it led in the 1990s. Nothing new, just a reminder. So, in the service of implementing Serbia's Pacific resources and providing for the use of Serbia's economic resources for the purposes of the Third Reich. Today, unfortunately, we need that so-called. the democratic world for the same reasons. Milan Nedic, as president of the so-called The governments of the people's salvation, the fate of Serbia's future, was seen under the patronage of the Third Reich and its new world order. Not only about them, but also about others who participated in World War II on the part of Germans and Italians, trying to forget or possibly revise themselves through previous laws on the Chetnik movement of Draža Mihailovic and his alleged army. British documents, 1942. The British say they "can't send weapons to General Mihailovic to fight the Partisans, who are now the only ones fighting against the axles. General Mihailovic openly co-operates with the Italians and his orders are fully armed with the transfer of Italian trucks to western Bosnia to fight partisans, in a community with Italian troops. The orders of General Mihailovic do not fight at all now, and we English (and that is the essence of the whole story of World War II for those who understand it, because they were those who determined the fate of the world) need to enter into battle right now, not in two or four months, when the Allied troops landed in the Balkans. Then we don't care if Nedic, Antonescu or General Mihailovic approach us. Then he'll be all screwed up. We now need General Mihailovic to step into action and destroy railway lines. He does not do this, and all his gossip about sabotage on the railways, and the destruction of certain objects is not true. "The English have a report on all this. Perhaps the best assessment of what was happening in the premises of the former Great Yugoslavia during World War II has again been given by the English through a very short assessment of these events. They say -- many partisans are not communists. It is a fact and that is what many will not accept in their mind, that in the people's liberation war and in the revolution that was then carried out there were many people who were not communists and who fought against the Germans, the Italians and for the new society, for them in any case better. "Mihailovic is still the most suitable person we can count on. We need to advise him (give him practical advice, only they didn't seem to have anyone to give) to be discreet in contact with the Italians, to remove certain undesirable elements in their environment, to accept a more liberal constructive policy, to give hands to the Croats. "Beware, this is about March 6, 1943. So they gave him a chance back then. He says - we should show the partisans trust only if Mihailovic fails, after we have given him material help. That's the truth. Simply, Mihailovic avoided fighting the Germans, against the Italians and did everything possible to avoid the fight. And free. This law, even provided it was adopted, cannot change history, because history was written by others, and it is unfavourable for the Chetniks, Draž Mihailovic and those who think they have done something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25185	The word is from Ambassador Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25186	According to the Rules of Procedure, but I can do it by amendment, since Mr. Zarko Obradovic said some of the things that I think should be responded to. Mr. Obradovic, I will remind you of half of the 1980s, when a senior official of the City Committee of the Communists of Belgrade, was called Slobodan Milosevic, had a feverish reaction to the initiative to betray and print together the works of Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic and those 12 books then failed to see the light days. I will also remind you of the 93rd year, when the city government in Novi Sad, which was formed in the coalition of Socialists and Radicals, renamed one street, was called Chucki Lajoša, and now called the Bulevar Slobodan Jovanovic. The first street in Serbia with that name, even a boulevard. I will remind you that it was the first Serb to teach at Sorbonne, among other things, and for the end to tell you that I am proud to live on that street today and that Slobodan Jovanovic has welcomed, except that he is on the most expensive Serbian bill, that he has welcomed that the Serbs look at him as the person who has owed this people a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25187	The replica first. I don't know what the controversy is in, the works of Slobodan Jovanovic were printed at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's government. Yes, it's true. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Slobodan Jovanovic is one of our most prominent writers and historians, and sociologists, as well as publicists and lawyers. His reasoning theory is something to be learned today, brought up by all the lawyers in Serbia. I came out of this booth first of all with what Mr. Kristin said, but also with what we heard after that. So we're not someone who's still able to look at historical events with enough historical distance, but really what Mr. Krstin read about the death of the Glavaski family is creepy. Were there many such examples? Yes, there were, both in Banat, and in Backo, and in Srem, and in Šumadia, and almost everywhere in Serbia. The only reason that property was stolen was because instead of 200 meters of any grain, they were giving 100, 150 as much as they could estimate. Instead of having an ideological debate, Toma Nikolic said on this phone - his family on one side was in partisans, they weren't communists, but they were in partisans, his family on the other side was in Chetniks, what to do to people, it's not our time to discuss it. Now I'm going to tell you something else. That's what most families in Serbia are like. Rare are those families that are completely clean, on one side or that side. Whatever. So they're mixed, living next to each other in one way or another. What's most important, and that's what I want to show you at this point and in this replica. You told a creepy, earthquake story about the Glavask family. Now I'm going to tell you another one. I hope you find it interesting. They've arrested some of the authorities of a man on charges of being a friend of someone else they're persecuting and who's a friend of someone else they're persecuting, they're making him say where his friend is. He either doesn't know or won't say, but they're still holding him in custody. Meanwhile, the minister is abolishing the post on VMA for a pharmacist, firing his wife from work. At the same time, he's firing his daughter from work, and that man is still without charge, on the sole suspicion that he knows where his friend is, who's being chased by some government, the mosque behind bars. The case takes place in March and April 2006. This is an example of a little ordinary man named Jovo Djogo. He's not even a member of the SRS, he's just a man, Jovo Djogo. Guilty because he knows General Mladic. You wrote him the verdict in advance, fired his wife, fired his daughter. No one's making a story about it. What are they going to eat, what are they going to live on, what are they going to do? Does that interest anyone in Serbia? It's the exact same story or much worse than the story we just heard, which is terrible. It would not be slow for us to agree that these people are entitled to rehab, no doubt the Glavaski family and many other families and in Vienna, and in New Vienna, and throughout central Banat and southern Back and all other parts of our Serbia. But this is the key thing. We have it today. Who's gonna give him rehab? Who's going to give that woman rehabilitation? What are they guilty of? Because your daughter loves her father. You people are making your son betray his father today. Those villains do it in Republika Srpska, you do it here. Then let's arrest the brother-in-laws, and they'll say something. What's the difference? What, you're forced to do this? What, if this wasn't from what Mr. Obradovic read about, as they say, so now do the task? What's the difference between that occupation government and this one? Who's going to judge that? What are we supposed to do now? What don't we estimate in 10, 20, 30, 50 years? You people are still in effect in the legal traffic of the Lustration Act. Right, Minister Stojkovic? What are you doing with that law? To get out of public life those you don't like, who are better and smarter than you, those who will get more support and trust and trust of the people and who you can't beat with your ideas and your arguments. Then how are you going to beat them? Aha, forbid him. Then I have to win because I'm left alone on a political scene. These are fascist laws of the worst kind. These people stand up for it. One counselor, the one for fecal questions, would beat everyone, and not the wife and children, since we're all women and children, he's very smart and funny, he's kissed by a smart mother. This other guy would make stadium camps. That Vlajcic. What are we talking about? You're not going to cover that with this law. It won't be anyone living to embrace it that way. You know, when we first spoke, we could agree with you on a lot of cases where rehab is needed. What scares us is double arches. What scares us, Minister Stojkovic, is the fact that Milanovic was sentenced to 10 years in prison, and he did not throw a cruise rocket at RTS. And those who have committed this crime unequivocally and publicly boasted that this crime has been committed, Mr. Minister, come to you as your biggest friends and advisors, and tell us that our greatest goal is to get our heels up their asses and peek out of there, because that's the best way to live. Mr. Minister, at the end of the day I ask you, I apologize to you, Mr. Angelkovic, because you were not in the afternoon, that you would answer me, for those who were not in the O.R. and for the people watching, there was a terrible verbal crime. A representative of the University of Commerce, and that is the official of the Municipality of Trgovište, Jovica Mihajlovic, the municipal manager, demanded that part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia be separated, he demanded that the municipality be secededed from the Republic of Serbia. He said a referendum would be called for the detachment of the Serbian trade and the accession of neighbouring Macedonia, unless the state quickly resolves the bag and help the region urgently with twom euros. Mr. Minister, he also set the price for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The area of the municipality of Trgovište is 370 square kilometers. The territory of the state of Malta is 312 km square. He would have given up more territory than the State of Malta. He wouldn't give up what he thinks, so now you're counting as ideologically as the Albanians from Presevo can say or I don't know where, that's why we want to do it for national reasons. No, he'd give up for money, for two million euros, that's his price, Mr. Minister. That's the price of a criminal. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, has the state done anything in the meantime and is the state going to do something about it? By the way, I thank you, Mr Tomic, we are proud of the fact that we took part in giving the name of the beautiful street in Novi Sad, the first in Serbia to be the boulevard of Slobodan Jovanovic, and we are ashamed of the relationship of Belgrade authorities today that lift the streets. Maybe you didn't notice, I was born in this town here, I know those streets, and I find it hard to learn their other names. Marshal Tolbuhin and General Zdanov, do you know which explanation the streets have been lifted, dear friends. It's not like they changed, so they said they went back to Resavska and gave someone else. The streets of General Zdanov and Marshal Tolbuhin have been abolished, with the explanation of these thieves from Belgrade authorities, they say -- it is not a practice in the world to give the streets to prominent commanders. People, among other things, participated in Serbia's liberation. Their streets are gone. They're asked by the Russian ambassador, how can you know what kind of behaviour this is towards Russia, towards the Russians who participated in Serbia's release? Don't get out of your mind... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. I beg your pardon, Mr. Angelkovic, for those who don't know, the Russians died 22 million in World War II, Americans 125,000 - 200:1. We have the streets you want, from Makenzie to I don't know which, I'm not saying it shouldn't be, I'm just asking if it's possible that there's no place for General Zdanov, Marshal Tolbuhin, there's no place in the suburbs, because the worst occupation servants are managing Serbia and because they're destroying Serbia. We should look to the future and not have cases of the Glavas, but also Jova Djoga never again, only then will we have a normal Serbia and a normal country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25189	The president of the Republic, Mr Tadic, was requested here, and as far as I know, Mr Tadic was at the Shop a month ago. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: Can I give you one supplement, one significant information? Please, Mr. Wolfie, wait a minute. Perhaps Tadic has agreed that this general manager should say so. Michael, from the scene, I'd like something by the Rules of Procedure. Please, first the minister, then you will. Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25190	All the heads of parliament went out, we realized that the mistakes of the state were, that there were people who represented the victims. I think we can agree here, so that we don't go into political debates, as Mr. Vukic said, because then these ideological discussions lead in the other direction, and the desire is with this law to bury it once and to say, yes, there have been mistakes, let us correct them, in the future, so there won't be such things. That's the proposal's wish. In that sense, I suggest we do it. Also, to answer two questions that I've been asked. First, for the insult of the Assembly. I must say, by amending the Criminal Code, there is no longer a possibility that the Attorney General is protecting the Assembly. That's where you're supposed to press charges individually. Maybe that would be the right way. If the MPs feel hurt in certain matters, let them press charges. I think it's going to be the right way to stand up to any insults, slanders and things like that. I suggest we take a look at the regulations, we can have a chat with Krasic, and you'll see that I'm right. Another thing I'd like to point out is, about what's been proposed here for the trade. I can informly say that I've spoken to a Republic prosecutor, that they're down in the field, so he'll look at exactly what the U.S. Attorney General did there. I want to point to two things: one is, I think it's Articles 222 and 223. The CAP. They clearly say, "the state authorities are obliged to report, if there is any doubt that an act being prosecuted under official duty has been carried out." In this case, it would be the Parliament, the state body. There's that other supplement that says, "every citizen who gets the information that the work is done should report it." So there's no responsibility to commit a crime of not reporting, but you should. I suggest, since you have all the evidence, to file a complaint and to contribute everything to the prosecutor so he can handle it. That's my suggestion. Another piece of information, since you were talking about fear, for this time you've met me enough, I'm a man with no fear, I'm not doing anything to be afraid of. Therefore, do not say, if you are afraid. I'm not afraid, when I'm scared, you won't see me here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25191	I thank you, Minister. It is only important not to continue the violence, today's vote in the Toads found that the president of the municipality had been removed, although it has not been replaced. I ask the state authorities to immediately take action and launch criminal charges against those who vote on the electoral commission against the law, which clearly says 50+1 should be for the removal of the president of the municipality. The parliament that passed the law must interpret it. Therefore, the electoral commission cannot violate the will of citizens who went to the polls. According to the Rules of Procedure, Wednesday's Michaels came forward. Let's see which member's been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25192	Article 104 has been broken. He has hurt me terribly, and he has offended the dignity of this congregation. I'll tell you why he's insulting you. I thought that when this law was passed, there would be no discussion. I didn't take my word for it, because I didn't want to talk, it hurt so bad and it irritated me, I didn't want to say a word, and I had a lot to talk about. Since it's become a joke, with this law, I expected, in my neighborhood, when someone does something unpleasant, then he doesn't want to talk about it, if he still knows he's guilty, then he wants to forget it somehow, that his fellow citizens forget it, especially he cares that he, who was somehow damaged or injured, gets some satisfaction. I thought we weren't talking about that. Now I'll tell you a few things. In new contributions to Tito's biography written by Dedier, I don't know the exact side, but I'll quote, Dedier went, he sent Tito to go to Montenegro because he was weaking his movement there, to see what was going on there. That night when he arrived, we tried there on a man who was convicted of shooting. Then he asked, "What's Chuck's guilty, what did he do, did he cooperate with the occupier?" Then they told him that his son was in the partisans and that he was the only one to blame for being a cult. Gentlemen, let me tell you, I've had a similar fate. I don't want to talk about my Elemirians, but now I'm going to tell you, Uncle Bosko Petrov, who is still alive, kept partisans on his salash for two years, risking being shot by his family, and after the war, they confiscated him coldly, I can get you a list. My grandfather was also declared a cult, although my father was in the People's Liberation Fight, although he was a fighter, he was also declared a cult. We lost the same bread, the sister one didn't stay alive, I don't know, maybe she died because of it, my grandmother went blind, and my grandfather gave my grandfather a crackdown, which he didn't take out the wheat that year, was in jail, there already mentioned. Let me tell you something, gentlemen, I can tell you the names and last names of those who have been confiscated, those who have killed themselves, and four suicides were at the time of the mandatory ransom, only in my village of Elemira. Don't, please, open that story, but in peace, as Mr. Minister has announced, to accept this, no one will, if someone asks for their rehabilitation for their grandfather, even more drastic examples I could tell you from my closer family or neighborhood, but I don't think we should play with it, that this should be done as soon as possible, without great discussion and noise, to do it. I'm not going to accuse anyone of what happened to my family or blame anyone. It was a product of that time, but then be nice to you gentlemen, so let it be done, do some of the wrongs that have been done there, there will be no right to that injustice, but at least it will be respected that we were once sinners.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25193	I thank Mr. Michael, but I repeat once again, when someone comes out to advertise Article 104, it would be good to take care of the terms they use, because warning that a member of 104 has been broken and talking about the law to make a joke, it's also a violation of Article 104, so let's not abuse Article 104. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out first of all that, of course, in accordance with Article 104, with the dignity of the National Assembly with everything we talked about in the morning, I would point out to Mr. Minister a few things about the Criminal Law itself and what it is whose obligation and what we pointed to in the afternoon. So here it is, Mr. Minister, about something being prosecuted by official duty, if there are any notifications. What we're talking about today is enough for every D.A. to initiate an appropriate procedure. When you say, "The National Assembly as a state body," yes, I warned the president of the National Assembly, and the president of the National Assembly refused. He said it was an irresponsible statement. I agree it's an irresponsible statement, but it's not just an irresponsible statement, it's a dangerous, criminal statement. It is not a statement that will say, Vucic is crazy, Albianic is smart or I don't know what, everyone knows what I have to say, but this is a matter concerning the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Someone dared to take 370 square miles from us for two million euros. He made the state of Serbia, out of the hijacking of the state of Serbia's lucrative business. I'm just expecting, if your solution is to file a notice or report to the relevant Republic Public Prosecutor, I'm going to do it, but I don't know what they're going to do and I don't know what they're doing, if they've heard this in the Assembly and seen a few articles, not just from one newspaper, but downloaded transcripts from the radio station, Radio OK, 102.2 megahertz, then I don't know what the Republic Prosecutor should still have to do. I think it's about time, because I haven't asked any other questions, but I'm going to use these tens of seconds now. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, I brought in another piece of paper that talks about the terrible things that happened after October 5th. After October 5th, that party that was first in revolutionary action, the one who shared justice, arrested the godless thieves and criminals, and in fact arrested the honest and honorable, and gave the thieves all the freedom to steal and kidnap, DS, and I am prepared to leave this, Mr. Minister, to leave you here, you will see, this is a copy of the Belgrade Bakery Industry. You will find it interesting, did you know that the Belgrade Bakery Industry, at the time of the company, I repeat the social firm, has the right and the possibility to transfer money to DS in accordance with any law. I brought you paper to see, and the camera can take pictures, if possible, because I don't know from which angle of the picture, to be honest, I'm lost with these cameras upstairs, so it's 13.10.19 2001, 73,248 dinars, and this is just one piece of paper that we've come to, from the citizens of Belgrade, from a pair of Serbian citizens, is funded by DS. Do you remember how many times, although the compensation for the board of directors, Toma Nikolic did not want to take it, mentioned the flag, do you remember? We're in opposition, we're out of power, I got hold of this paper today. Now I ask you, where is the end of this thief, will you, Mr. Minister, ask someone in this country how it is possible that one of Tadic's tycoon, in my opinion, one of the three largest tycoons in Serbia, Dragan Gilas, can make a profit of five million euros per year by selling air; it has no factory, it produces nothing, it has no cows, sheep, pigs, no fields, there's nothing. What makes it possible, how can it, if anyone can explain it. And that's why I'm asking you to keep these most serious crimes out of the question. And if you tell me, because I don't think you're a scary man, even though I don't like being courted, because we're also political opponents, but don't put anything in my mouth that I don't mean. I ask you to be interested in this, because I think it's your duty as a citizen now, because I'm sure they'll react faster if you do it, not me, because if I have to do it again, then once again from Tadic's office, they'll press the prosecution and say, "Don't do anything when the radicals and the Vukics are filing any charges." And if you want to allow something like this, people, citizens of Serbia, a man is looking and blackmailing and saying, if two million euros don't come, he's detached, he's blackmailed the country and said, if he doesn't get two million euros, his country goes away, our territory is gone. If there is no serious punishment for that, Mr. Minister, if there is no repressive apparatus to act in its own way, both in a preventive and repressive sense, then I have nothing to say to you, or anything to tell you about it, but the citizens of Serbia will see this. My answer in the end is, if you say you won't take it, I'll do it, it's no problem, but I expect you to be protected, that no one in Tadic's office protects criminals, as they protect thieves, and that those who commit such crimes respond to justice. Because once again, and I will repeat it a million times in this mandate, it is obvious that some of these "yellows" or these or those have a spare homeland, whether the Shop will be in Serbia or Macedonia, if it will get 10,000 euros in its pocket. This one for 10,000 euros would sell the country, this one I don't know what, and we don't have a spare country and our children have to learn that Serbia loves most in the world and more than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25195	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kojcic. First MP Kojcic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Marko Krstin Replic, then Rajko Baralić discusses, and Meko Omerovic, his amendment, is accepted, does not have to write there and prepare. Here you go, Mr. Koicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25196	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zarko Obradovic recently used an analytical term in his presentation, the counter-revolution said. I volunteered precisely because I would not enter into whether the essence of October 5th was a revolution or a counter-revolution, but I can say that I fought, and the Democratic Party of Serbia certainly was then, to create a legitimate society. So, not to read it as a revolution, not as a counter-revolution, but to create a legitimate society, in which there will be neither privileged nor privileged, privileged, or deprived, simply, we have fought for a democratic society in which no ideology will make a difference between people, because all differences will be harmonised in democratic dialogue. The problem is that October 5th and this system of values I fought for were compromised by those who couldn't possibly say they wanted a counter-revolution. On the contrary, these were also claims by Marxist men who criticized Tito, both in 1968 and after 1968, because they were not enough communists. Many of them were ministers, and vice-presidents of the government, were so handsome that man could make an alternative central committee out of them. The Democratic Party of Serbia has indeed fought for a European, democratic political system in which there is room for all. This is why we are not inclined to share political parties with those who are democratic, who are not democratic, there is no extremism, we want with a lot of love for our country, towards our people to establish, to establish, to set up a step by step one normal, reasonable, unsecured political society, in which all differences can and should exist and to argue in this way before parliament. I already said the other day that it is the least parliament that should generate division in Serbian society. Even this law that we're discussing today, which I would say is the parent's discussion today, is that we no longer share in society, to interpret history in all our shades. Of course, justice always requires a differentiated approach, never one who has sinned against fundamental human principles and the law can be put in the same line with other citizens. I just want to say that those who compromised what we fought for on October 5th absurdly and today call themselves "the organization of October 5th".
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25197	Thank you, replica, Marco Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25198	I'm sorry I noticed some ideological tones, that the debate was ideologically colored. I don't think there was room for that. I was talking about the duchy peasants who called the grainers, who were arrested, beaten and killed because they couldn't deliver the grain, and everything was taken from them. I don't know where there's a letter "C" from the Chetniks. I must tell you, who doesn't know, there were no Chetniks in Banat, there was only one member of Ljotic's movement, who was named Mojic and who was captured in the attic after 7-8 years. If you think they were Chetniks, these people I'm talking about have nothing to do with Chetniks. To go further, these men gave their sons from 18 to 22 years old, of which several thousand were killed on the Sremski front slaughter, with one bullet in the rifle, no rifle, against the armored divisions, for the first time the rifle in their hands, those peasants who took it, and they got them with a coffin or no crate to bury them. So there's no ideology, I think we're talking about the same thing. If it's ideology, if those peasants who took it and who gave their sons to fight were Chetniks, I don't know they were. So I absolutely can't agree to not just any sign of equality, but to put any sign between this and that. And whether anyone was a traitor or not, it will be established, and who he was and what he was. I'm talking about ordinary people, peasants. I think we agree on that, I guess that's what it is. As for Mr. Vukic, I think we've somehow come to the conclusion that someone innocent here has been killed and that he should be rehabilitated in one way or another. Is the way it's supposed to be, that's the second question now, that's what we agreed on. As for the cases he mentioned today, I really think that justice should not be slow and attainable, but swift and accessible. I completely agree with that, and those maxes are no longer valid. That thing stopped working 100 years ago. Maybe somewhere in our house is okay, but it shouldn't. However, I would like to say this: I really think that the legal system as it has now advanced in relation to the legal system of the 40 years is immeasurable and we cannot compare it, and yet there are instruments and methods. That's exactly what we're talking about in Parliament today. Mr. Vukic mentioned the name of the man who suffered and he asks that this injustice be corrected. I'd like to know who was supposed to tell 47 what we said here today. So that's two incomparable things. If 5,000 people were killed, from 8821, and so many families were killed in IB, 65,000 with families, we must say that someone was innocent. I think so. Most of these people, when it comes to peasants, all people are killed innocent, and we have to say: people are killed innocent, and those people need to be righted wrong. They need to get back what's confiscated, and if someone is, and I don't think any of them are alive, unfortunately, to pay him immaterial damage, all according to the applicable regulations. And there's no ideology. If we think it's ideology, that these people didn't get hurt innocently, that they're not martyrs, then there's something wrong with us. I think it's okay with me, but with someone who's mixing this with those who are qualified as traitors right now, it has nothing to do with each other. What's the point of it, I don't know, but I'm behind it, and I don't think any of the MPs here think that these 8,821 people in any way did any crime to be severely punished and literally killed. If we're not going to admit that thousands of people were killed in a rush of revolutionary passion, then I don't know where we exist or why we exist. Let's admit it and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25199	Thank you, Mr. Christin. There are three minutes left following the same amendment, MP Rajko Baralic. I'm sorry, I wasn't there. You picked up a line from one of the previous speakers. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. I just need to get a heads-up on what's going on, Mr. Angelkovic left me a very detailed list of what's happened, but often MPs like you know give up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25200	Mr. Markovic, we are here on the amendment to Article 1 and in the meantime six-seven speakers spoke, there were also replicas, and injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and of course I have to answer some things. You see, I used fresh examples to explain this amendment on purpose. I didn't use cases from April 6, 1941 to May 9, 1945, I didn't use cases from 1948, 1971, 1974, and so on. Why? To just draw attention not to approach this unilaterally and then Mr. Kristin comes out, reads something, I have no reason not to trust him. And probably everything he said was true, and there was probably some injustice, and probably another injustice came out of it, that the confiscated property, and that the man, as I understand it, had died in the Decades or Nis after a year of arrest. And certainly that's one case that indicates that there's been some kind of persecution. But I don't see it as political, I don't see it as ideological. I'm just noticing that there was an absurd regulation where man made a commitment to give several times more than he could physically and theoretically secure on his property. So there was one discriminatory regulation and there was neither political nor ideological persecution. There is no room here to point to facts that are directly related to what is written in Article 1, which is political and ideological persecution. Furthermore, it seems extremely rude that we are talking now, and I want to neutrally embrace this period and look for an objective standard that can be applied by a judge, and then we come here in a situation where there is an example that is happening today, where it is obvious that it is handled without a court decision, that it is political persecution again, because someone will not say or do not know where Ratko Mladic is. We're all being naive here now, keeping track of what happened in 1945, and we don't like to see what happened in 2006. That's extreme hypocrisy. Then it's said that this isn't an amendment as soon as you're asked to delete it. I'm looking for a delete, because this is not a member, because as it's written, you saw for yourself that there is a value criterion to be applied by a judge. I don't know which judge should judge on this. You'll have eight judges and five in second, and when you make an appeal, what happens then?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25201	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25202	This law lays the groundwork for all events from 6 April 1941 to today, since Article 1 of the Law defines this as a time frame for the application of this law. When it comes to Mr. Krstin and I, there's been an unintentional confusion, since it's a misreading of what I said. I do not question at all the need for us, as a state that should be normal, legal and just, to correct all the injustices that have been done in the past. That's where we differ from what I was talking about from 1941 to 1945, because I think the essence of this law is to review what happened at the time. If there were postwar injustices, of course, they should be corrected. Personally, I think it's very good. First of all, here on my part was that the things that happened during World War II, about which the court of history gave its seal, couldn't change, no matter how much someone wanted, no matter how hard they tried. However, there is obviously a need today, because of the public of Serbia and because of people who, in the elections, express their political stance on events in Serbia, political parties, to talk about these times, because some think history can change. I've said and I'm staying with some people having absolutely double arches: they're condemning something, and they're not ready to talk about it. I mentioned the October 5th cases, when about 40,000 people were subject to political persecution only because they were Socialists, or members of their families, or their supporters, or possibly, on a proposal from the Socialists, they were employed by state authorities. Do we really think everyone here in the O.R. that the law will be applicable and applies to everyone? Technically, yes, but I don't think it's going to do for everyone. Mr. Angelkovic mentioned it, but I have to, too, because it's part of something that's happening to us today. Yesterday, in the Frogs, we had a statement by the people of the Municipality of Žabari in a referendum. Of the 5,301 people who voted yesterday for the mayor's impeachment, 48.46% of the votes were for impeachment, and the rest was against it. There were 86 votes missing, but 169 invalid ballots. And as it is in a country like Serbia, the electoral commission has met and interpreted the law as it thinks. Is that the right of the president of the municipality to be annulled? Yes, it is. Will he be able to get satisfaction? We'll see. This is one drastic example of how the past years have been done, because people have taken the right to represent the right and to share justice. It's something that we socialists are fighting and we want the archain to be the same for everyone, not to be applied once, and the second time, it doesn't apply at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25203	I really don't underestimate myself, but I didn't realize by what member of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Baralic, do you want to use three minutes, how much left for the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25204	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've read your political programs, and you obviously haven't. Gentlemen, you, all but us, promised that when you came to power to return the nationalized, confiscated and all other assets. No one's defending you. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: When did we promise? You do not exercise authority, ma'am. So, you have a chance, you bring the law here and you say, we return everything that is confiscated, nationalized on this or that basis. That's fair. What you're doing right now is clouding things. Socialist Veljko Simin, the minister of agriculture, proposed to the National Assembly 10 years ago, and the National Assembly adopted a law on the return of a country that had been seized on several grounds. The problem was resolved in Serbia with 78-79% of what could be realized. You have a chance, gather around, make a deal. In the election campaign, you promised it. We promised to support that. Return everything that has been taken away and, what the people would say, "Peaceful Buck." This, in whose name he speaks, with what aspect, whether he has these or those ideological glasses, we can talk about it as much as you want. What I object to here, so I find it convenient to delete this member, is the date from which the law should be applied. The fact that the Mason of Alexander Karadjordjevic, whom you called the king, the regime has been checking how long one man with an empty bottom of his cage and a rat on his belly can endure has not been put into this law. You didn't even put those to whom the announcements eliminated all human rights. On whose behalf? Who arrested Dr Dragisa Misovic because he had a motto: "I fight that those who build the best palaces do not live in huts, that those who produce the most bread may not be hungry and those who do not walk on the most kilometers of the railroads." He was killed by a regime in 1939. Cachak then had 16,000 inhabitants, and there were 40,000 people at his funeral. Do we rehabilitate him today or do you think we shouldn't? The red doctor, when he signed a red pen, meant that his brother-in-law pharmacist Katanic was issuing a free medicine to a patient who was poor. You'd never rehabilitate him. It won't work. Whatever you do, you have ideological glasses. Correcting one injustice, you're making another. Since some have spoken here on behalf of some, here I welcome you on behalf of the families of 214 slaughtered Chachans, 97 of whom were women and 11 children. It's a very difficult Serbian history, it's a very difficult moment and it's very complicated to tell all these stories, and I thought they were told. You wanted this topic back and you're going to have this conversation again, until this is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25205	National MP Istvan Ispanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25206	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment wanting to introduce another form of rehabilitation that is not foreseen by law. However, since I do not know why the government has not accepted it, I will try to give some reasons why I have proposed this amendment. You have seen, in the very proposal for a law, that rehabilitation is planned, to which it refers, that there will be some judicial decisions, that it will be published in the Official Messenger. It is also foreseen, since the government has accepted the amendment to Article 7 or that a new member is added after Article 7 which regulates some compensation, I think it is only missing that a single civil act allows the marking of graves created in these difficult times. I therefore suggested that the heirs and relatives of the victims be allowed to mark in one particular way the graves that are left and which are present today, which are unmarked, to allow this by law, and because there are a lot of problems in some places around Vojvodina where this is not allowed, there is resistance to these graves being marked and therefore I have proposed this position in Article 1. I think it would be my turn to accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25207	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said that for many reasons the MPs of the SRS will not vote in favour of this bill, not only because we are the only opposition party in the Serb assembly, but simply because we have come across a lot of bad solutions and have therefore highlighted our remarks. I want to point out a few things first, and then I'll talk directly about Mr. Ispanović's amendment. First, what is important because of Serbia's future, not because of what we are going to say to each other in this National Assembly. Is it true everything that was said today from this pay phone, what they were saying to each other? Yeah, it's true. Was there a crime against the communists before World War II? Yes, it was. Did the communists commit crimes after World War II? Yes, they are. What happened during World War II? There's only one thing I'd like to point out to you, about the death in World War II, because today everything is getting even. Last night I saw a movie on RTS that talked about birth, about Adolf Hitler's political activity, about how he ended up, and then I saw a few historical untruths at the very end of the film about who he was and how he died in World War II and how he did it. Of course, the most suffering people, such as the Russian people, were completely expelled, but one of the four most suffering nations, or, if you will, with the Germans, the five most suffering nations in World War II was Serbian. For the sake of history and fact, the Serbian people suffered seven or eight times in absolute numbers more than, say, American, believe it or not. During the entire World War II, the Americans died 150,000, and the Serbs between 900 and 1.2 million, depending on who makes the historical assessment. Why am I saying this? Not because of the mourning, not because we Serbs lost a third of the men's population in World War I, but because I want to tell you, in World War II, depending on where the uprising was raised, here's an example of our Krajina, in Knin they were Djujic's and they were carrying cocards, in Banija they were mostly wearing a five-pointer because they first showed up, but they were both fighting the same one, and they were Ustashas and they were all killed by Ustasha. In the village where my father left no man alive. All the men's heads have been killed. He was born because he was in the belly, and he never saw his father. So, all the men they had killed, everything they found, and they killed so many times more people than they suffered in the Serb-Serbian conflict, that, of course, it can't be negligible that it's one head, but it's unfortunate that we continue the Serb-Serbian conflicts without explaining what they did and how they did everything against the Serb people. That's the basic thing. I listened carefully to Mr. Ispanovic last time, and when, if you remember, I reacted and said General Rukavina led the action against the Hungarian population, which is Croatian nationalities, and not Serbian, according to Broz's warrant, it is understood, but I did not say a few other things. Of course, and to be correct, Ispanovic confirmed that he did not deny, numerous crimes committed, creepy crimes against the Serb population in Vojvodina, who were committed by Hungarian occupation troops. When you speak, for example. about Curug, in which it is not impossible that someone wanted something to return or I don't know what, but the whole street, let me not let Mr. Vlaovic lie, the entire street has been cleaned by Hungarian occupation troops from Serbian men's heads. Is that right? All of it. No male family, no male head left a Serb alive. I don't mind, it's a civilization custom where someone gets hurt, gets killed, or dies, that the place gets marked, but imagine you bring it to that place and you say there's one, two or ten people, and they've killed more than 200 people. That's what's hard to accept, and that's why it's measuring and weighing for all of us is terribly significant. In all this, unlike others who hear the Hungarians say something, we learn about it first, learn about it, and then come out with it. Yes, it is true, there were crimes committed by General Rukavin's forces, there is no doubt, of Hungarian life, but it was not predominant, especially compared to what happened in Vojvodina before that. How many Serbs were thrown under ice in Tis, Danube and in many other rivers and in various ways killed. I just didn't get to say it, and now I'm gonna take a chance on this amendment, and I haven't answered the question directly, I was probably distracted or wanted to say more, so I didn't get there. In fact, Mr. Minister, this criminal statement on the purchase of the territory of the Republic of Serbia for two million euros was made in February. After that, President Tadic, to provide direct support, left with his biggest tycoons and supported people who trade in our territory, went and said - yes, they are your best. This isn't a coincidence. I didn't know and I admit it was my fault, but the people at the Shop immediately rebelled when they heard about this statement, the kids at school rebelled, some kids didn't want to go to school because they were afraid of their future, they see that some people want to separate some of their territory from the Democratic Party, they say -- we want to transfer some of Serbia to Macedonia, because they're blackmailing someone for two million euros. So, after that, Tadic comes with his team of tycoons, Gilas, Krstic, and I don't know which one to share there. Now listen to me. We looked at the televisions individually, as if around the largest Serbian benefactors had appeared. Right? It's like the people who are going to give the trade a fortune, they're going to solve all their problems. They're taking care of the poor girl. Now you will hear what they have brought, since, as you know, we are very well informed, so you will hear precisely. They brought 12 tons of flour, at a price of 144,000 dinars, I'll calculate at the end of the euro, that you don't have to worry, that you don't have to count; rabbit, washing powder, two televisions donated, two geographical cards, two radio cameras outcasted in the village of Donja Trnica, where there are seven students, and in the village of Kozja Dol - 4 students, and given the truck FAP 1414 older, BG-728-541, of course yellow. We've calculated that you know the value of all these gifts they've been givin', and that's a gift to most of all Serbian citizens, it's okay, poor people live in the Shop. They were giggling like I didn't know what they'd given. Now I'm telling you, not the state of Serbia, the SRS itself will bring to the citizens of Commerce, who are so hard to live, much more than they have given. We won't even say such things, we tell the press that we only gave 50 or 100 times as much as this, and not to be ashamed, the President of the Republic to brag about these little things. What did they do? I didn't tell you this for nothing. I told you to get full information. Do you know where they opened the People's Office? The one you allowed to have money in the budget. They opened it in a private house. Whose? The DS sympathizer, of course. You know how much they paid for that? Five hundred euros renting an office. Imagine, you're renting a 500-euro office at the Shop. To know that there is no honorable work, honest and honest work. That is why I ask Minister Stojkovic, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all of you to answer our questions and tell us clearly and precisely when the state of Serbia will begin to deal with the tycoons that are ruining it. Bogoljub Karic is not the only one, we told you that the moment you led the action, it is not the only one, not near the only one, there are many more. Gilas, Hamovic, as many as you like, these for cigarettes, as they're called, the one who sued me, Subotic. As long as you want. People, either you do your job the right way or we drop everything, say that Serbia is not ready, and that we will be harassed by municipal managers, whose only job it will be to say -- give me the money in my pocket, if you don't give me the money, I will organise a referendum to join another state. I haven't heard that, I've talked to the MPs here on the break, I've seen, Mr. Minister, a great indignation of people who didn't take this as some kind of political attack of our own or as an attempt to score political points because this is too dangerous and too serious. If it is we who condemn Agim Ceku, Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci when they seek the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, and they seek it because they are still calling for some historical, traditional, cultural, national reasons. And we have those who support Boris Tadic and come directly to support them, and they are seeking to separate part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia because they have not received two million euros in their pocket, Mr Stojkovic, it is a crime without precedent. That man, I warned you about that to Minister Stojkovic, that loser from the DS, he even developed how, across the hills that separate him from Kozje Dol, and I don't know what. He specifically instructed you to do so. Then what? So, do you want to go somewhere next? How long are we gonna do that? Wherever the DS wins, we need to worry, if they don't get enough money, if they're gonna tear off a piece of territory. Is that a question? Is that how anyone in Serbia treats Serbian citizens? I think it's clear to the citizens of Serbia, but we'll wait. I told you if I needed to, and I'll do it myself, but we'll be waiting for the authorities to answer. I just hope he doesn't say it's all made up, that it's made up and a transcript radio, that one newspaper was invented and that another newspaper was invented. We've got three papers. Let's see if something like that can happen or not. You see, as far as rehab law is concerned, one more thing. It's hard to share from 1941 to 2006. In accordance with some ideological prejudices that each of us is carrying, we could be wrong, we could be wrong about the truth, we could do something that could hurt someone without achieving justice at the same time. What we would all agree on, it is not disputed if the Glavaski family received it, is not disputed for anyone, nor for Slobodan Jovanovic, Lazu M. Kostic and I don't know who, but I am sure it will be controversial for you for many who are persecuted after October 5th. I'm still asking you to tell me as a lawyer, and I'm sure Mr. Krasic assured me of this countless times, that you're a kind of lawyer, to tell me at least when it comes to knowing the rules, how it is possible that Dragoljub Milanovic was sentenced to 10 years in prison for the crime of causing general danger, or non-compliance by order 37, and the order was found nowhere, but there were witnesses who claimed that the text of the orders had been seen and that no real perpetrators of the crime were convicted? On the contrary, that they were set free, that there was an acquittal in the matter against them. The prosecutor dropped out and even said he wasn't interested in running a criminal prosecution. If you could explain it to me, Mr. Minister, I would be infinitely grateful, because then I would find out something new that I didn't learn at law school. I tried my time to study, I didn't want to go to demonstrations when they pressured us to go to demonstrations, because I went to college to learn, and I was brave enough to defend myself against those who would attack you for coming to college to learn something. That's where they taught me something else, not what's happening to us today. I don't mind you telling me - so Vucica, it's a force, but then don't anyone ever tell me about what's right and what's right, and don't tell me about how some Milanovic or someone else is going to have a privileged status, when he doesn't have the right to go out on weekends, even though he's achieved all the conditions under the law to get that right. He can't because he's going to grab some Natasa Kandic or Sonja Biserko or someone like that to say yes, there's the privileged position. So I kiss his mother, what privileged position do those who killed those people, who killed little Milica Rakic, who killed everyone? Do they have a weekend leave right, Mr. Minister, or do you give them a red carpet every working day at any time or just for the weekend? You're still telling us that there's nothing better for us than to have both male and female heels sticking out of their buttocks, because it's the future of Serbia. I hope not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25209	Of course, Mr. Ispanović, you have your word. I have to warn you. I have carefully followed most of the presentations, I remind you once again of Article 103 who says the speaker can only speak about the issue that is on the agenda and no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. I did not interrupt you during the presentation, but I warn you, all MPs, that it is simply not possible in this way to abuse a pay phone and on issues, on several occasions repeat the information from newspapers to which the minister will, I expect, certainly, give the answer and there is no need to spend the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure for a completely different purpose. Here you go, Mr. Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25210	Replication to Mr. Vukic's exposure. I wouldn't want to be misunderstood. In my presentation, I didn't mention any nation. I'm talking about today's presentation. Last time I answered you, too, but you weren't in the O.R., you probably know what I was talking about back then. At least I'd like to bid on the number of victims. I don't think that's our job. You know who needs to determine the number of victims in World War II and after World War II, so I don't want to talk about it. I think there are many Serbian victims who also have unmarked graves. That's what I've been talking about, and that's why I think that amendment is necessary. If I remember correctly through history, I don't think we know where Draža Mihailovic was buried because he wasn't buried. Therefore, there are other victims for which this amendment should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25211	Thank you for the further explanation of the amendment, Mr. Ispanović. Does he want another group of MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal and the Government has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) (Zoran Stojkovic, from the place: Is this amendment accepted? ) It is the next amendment that has been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if you had accepted this amendment of mine, you could have immediately withdrawn the law, since the amendment reads that Article 2 is deleted. This discussion so far has shown why this law should not have come to the Assembly before the MPs. The majority of MPs have practically advertised the date on which rehabilitation is being applied, that is, on 6 April 1941. The majority of MPs consider that the date has been fixed on a flat-rate basis and that it could practically not be taken according to some criteria as a date. But this law shows all the tragedy of our history and everything we've been through. You've seen that persistently, at least when it comes to the SRS, we're trying to get some things out of our history that don't serve us the honor of forgetting. But it's like there's someone on the other side who's always trying to heat up these divisions that started a long time ago, and that's thought out by some centers, and they're always heating them up. Why is it a disputed date? It's slow because it's the date of World War II. Of course, since I've submitted an amendment to Article 2, which I'm asking for Article 2 to be deleted, this applies to the whole law, if it weren't for them to be here, and you know that all wars are the same, because if they were different, they would have different names. Therefore, in all wars there are crimes on all sides. This law won't talk about rehabilitating all sides. Why? Because a number of people who were damaged during this period, to whom the law applies, have already experienced rehabilitation and without the practical existence of the law. A number of people, who are severely damaged by or without some court proceedings, will never be rehabilitated because they will not experience rehabilitation, have not experienced it physically, and there are no descendants who will be able to enjoy it, to say that one of their ancestors was rehabilitated, whom at one point any regime considered politically inadequate. How tragic our history is and how much we are always trapped to make our own mistakes as contemporaries, the best tells us about what Mr. from the SPS, Zarko Obradovic, said about some official documents published by the English government at the time, concerning the period of World War II on the participation of individual units in various operations that took place at the time. England admitted after World War II that during the entire period of World War II in Cairo, all the data that came from the Balkan war was passed to London by an intelligence officer who had the last name Ljubimov, who was an intelligence officer of the Cominterna and who practically attributed the actions carried out by the Chetniks to the Partisans. It wouldn't be terrible for us if it wasn't a trap for all of us, who was warmed up, that's what we were silent about. The same English people, through their own media, placed this information in the 1980s, so that one part of the population in Serbia, which was on one condition of these parties, reheated for new disputes and discussions between us. You've had a lot of cases when someone for ideological or other reasons was out of work, so after a while he was returned to work, without any compensation for not being at work, he revised his attitude or did something else. Some of them have never been back to work. If you're rehabilitating some of them now, if you don't pay them off without a job, then it's no kind of rehabilitation, because they haven't suffered any great mental or any other pain, except for that material damage they've suffered, but the law doesn't predict that they can be returned. That is why the Rehabilitation Law, even though it implies only the practical compensation of the spiritual damage suffered by someone, cannot be complete. Rehabilitated face doesn't get anything. Here's why he doesn't get anything. When the court makes a decision on rehabilitation in a three-member council, it will be published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" once a month, and you know that the "Official Messenger" is so read that people subscribe to it, that they simply run when they show up to read who's rehabilitated in that month. So that information that's being published in the official messenger, believe it won't mean anything to anyone, because it'll rarely read it. Perhaps one of the families of the rehabilitated will take to one such specimen, to hold it for the offspring, but otherwise the public will really know nothing about it. That's why I think it's best, and it's not too late for you to pull this off, not to go further into our division, which really burdens us through history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25213	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The word was first answered by Mr. Veselinović, and if there is any time left, then you too, Mr. Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as many legislative projects that have one declarative significance here, so this law is more than one declaration paper, which means something to the citizens of Serbia and to those to be rehabilitated. Namely, as well as the law when you proposed for the registration of seized property to Serbian citizens, where in Belgrade they should all turn around across Serbia, it is a matter of what has been done and has anyone ever informed about how many citizens have applied and what has been done about that registration. So this law has only a declarative meaning. It will have no other satisfaction for the citizens of Serbia. The minister of justice came out, I thought I'd speak directly to the minister of justice here, since he is a man who swears to the legality of law and law, to ask him on what grounds did the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member, decide to introduce temporary measures in Novi Pazar and disband the Parliament of Novi Pazar? I believe that he will hear this, and all the members of the government who voted for this decision, and there is a difference between them, so that G17 plus opposes, the DSS is for, it's for etc. But this is an example that it's only about preserving the naked power. This is the preservation of the naked power of the ruling majority in this assembly and the Serbian government. When we hear that there's a yellow manager at the Shop selling the Shop for two million euros, the question is what account has been issued here by Sulejman Ugljanin and his MPs in the Serbian government. The question is, what kind of money is this? I want this opportunity, for the sake of the public and all of you MPs and citizens of Serbia, to only know one thing, that those who swear on democracy, the legality of the government, to preserve their authority, have no measure of what they will give and invest. They are not interested in the state of Serbia, it is important that they are in power. Serbian citizens must know today that Serbia is not ruled by the DSS, nor by G17 plus, nor by Velimir Ilic, but by two MPs of the List for Sandzak Sulejman Ugljanin, which is Bajram Omeragic and Esad Djudjevic. They rule Serbia today. So to mention in the end that Velimir Ilic, as soon as there is a crisis in some municipality, is immediately there Velimir Ilic, immediately came to Novi Pazar and together with representatives of the Sandzak List, visited villages, settlements, promises roads, asphalts, and all that, therefore, everything the citizens are looking for, to preserve their coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25215	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25216	This New Market thing is likely to be rehabilitated by some new law, because this could extend to Novi Pazar, because until the law is passed. But let us return to what is contained in Article 2 which is covered by the amendment of the SRS. It says here that a request for rehabilitation can be filed by any interested person and this formulation, I think there is one amendment from G17 plus, where an interested person is defined as a natural and legal person, opens up the possibility of major abuses. Rightly known, the interested person is defined as a person who can prove a legal interest in something, and it can have the status of an interference, and of a party, but if an interested person puts himself so broadly, then we have a situation to essentially prejudge things by applying itself. It's a situation where it happens outside the Special Court building outside the District Court building, that's when the verdict is found in the paper before the hearing or the search is scheduled. I'd like to give you some examples. If, for example, interested persons came forward by those in the so-called Government Civil Sector, or the NGO sector, helped from abroad, such as the Resistance, not to order them, because they are in 99% of all on the same path, how to destroy the state. And the one that deals with medicine, and now the media, so a little bit of a review of the president, so a little bit of his media advisor, should know, are traitors, you from that NGO sector, because they work directly, rudely and in the eyes against national interests. For Natasa Kandic, it is very uncomfortable to mention the Serbian citizen as a victim, but that is why someone from abroad is very often referred to as a victim, and always as a criminal, someone from Serbia appears. If such powerful lobbyists show up, then few judges are allowed to refuse their rehabilitation request. They will show that interest, of course media-supported by U92 and these other powerful television and radio stations under the control of NGOs, or those directly funded from abroad, and here they act as though they were independent, independent. It is those who do not pay contributions for their workers, those who went to school in Budapest, so it is known that some have received a fee in whiskey, and some have received 100, 150 marks at that time on their hands, such as one Natasha Miljkovic, etc. All the naked traitors run the media in Serbia, so you know, and it's necessary to clear the brain of Serbian citizens, simply toss a weight on something that is peripheral, from that creates a major problem, and then passes like this for the Shop or something that is much bigger and which is already being prepared in southern Serbia. You see, if such a qualified person were to report as interested, then I wouldn't be surprised that some of the SPS are afraid of having one non-principled reaffirmation or an end to history, so that some historical facts would get some opposite and become mandatory, given that through rehabilitation it is corrected, meaning not only responsibility, but also some new history is written. Why am I saying all this? For one simple reason why the Ovcara trial in this war crimes court was staged. There are two witnesses: a bloody Bora and a pathological killer. That's exactly what they call themselves in the case. You see, Natasa Kandic managed to bring people aside, they didn't ask for expenses, so they would just take pictures in front of the court, as they would say, finally the satisfaction of justice has come, and there are no verdicts yet, but they know in advance which verdict it will be. And then when you get the verdict, when you look at what it's about, then you see that one got 20 years, which couldn't even theoretically be in place and at the time that it happened, because he was a man on VMA, motionless. So there are still some things that have been seen, and even the testimony of the people of Croatia is not accepted, and they say, "Why is this accused?" He saved our lives, do you judge him for saving our lives? That's what the public can't hear, he can't get that knowledge. And why is that? The procedure has some degree of secrecy, the media domination of these traitors, tell that doctor, they are traitors in both political and legal terms, that the government is not pursuing them, that is another problem, the problem of incompetence of the authorities, but anyone who so against national interests, against state interests, is a traitor in the political sense of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25217	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Just a moment, another parliamentary group after the same amendment? Here you go, Mr. Belic, then Mr. Baralic. Just to warn, simply if you did not follow, Mr Krasic is right, there is an amendment that the government has accepted, which defines legal and physical persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25218	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the draft law, that is, this Article 2 to which the SRS parliamentary group has submitted the amendment, where it is said that a request for rehabilitation can be submitted by any interested person, i.e. until the application for rehabilitation is made, does not become obsolete.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25219	That's why I turned my attention, I'm sorry, it's Mr. Ispanovic's amendment and he's accepted, but we're just going to read it, and now we're talking about an amendment submitted by MP Branislav Rankic, who says article 2 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25220	I'm sorry. You see, New Serbia's MPs have made their point during the principle debate that they will vote for the bill, because rehabilitating all innocent victims doesn't require much more of those who are gone, but because of our moral commitment to finally bury these war axes, because, as you know, the people in the nation have lived their civil wars in the 18th century, 19th century, and even in the 20th century, and we still, unfortunately, haven't buried our war axes in history, and as far as the ideological front is concerned, we could see what it looks like when we passed and adopted the Law on the Equality of the Rights of the Fighters, and then the Law on the List of Property and at the end of this Rehabilitation Act. You see, Article 2 is really necessary to accept the most for the reasons that numerous victims, whose descendants are witnesses of the death of their loved ones, grandfathers, fathers, can submit that request. But we have such sizes, like Slobodan Jovanovic, who has been apostrophe here so many times, but mostly in a negative context, and I think it's actually the result of just a lack of knowledge of facts. Because if for a man who owed so much to Serbian culture, the Serbian people, a man who was both a professor and a dean of the Faculty of Law, a member and president of the Serbian Royal Academy, then a Belgrade University rector, then a president of the Serbian Cultural Club and, of course, a troubled time and a vice president, then a president of the refugee government, which put him most as a sin, which is why he was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison, so I don't know about forced labour, the loss of political and individual civil rights for 10 years and with mandatory confiscation of property and loss of citizenship. In the organisation of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the Faculty of Law nine years ago, in February 1997, a scientific event was held on the topic "Freedan Jovanovic - Life and Work". At that time, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art and the Faculty of Law adopted certain conclusions nine years ago, that an emergency procedure for the annulment of judgments, for the transfer of posthumous remains, for the posthumous declaration of the honourary citizen of Belgrade, namely that one street or square in Belgrade should be named. It's literally the conclusions from that scientific gathering. As you can see, there has been no legal framework for these nine years to be initiated, and of course these days, we have received an initiative from the Association of Lawyers in the Assembly Committee of Education, or I think even that a letter and an initiative with approximately the same content have arrived from Nis, demands to initiate a procedure for the rehabilitation of this man. He was condemned to forget, to forget his books, one of his distinguished colleagues mentioned today that in 1981, the entire second edition of the literature portrait Slobodan Jovanovic was cut into old paper, and that in 1985, the same fate struck them when they tried to publish the pieces. It means that these ideological barriers were so much that such a man and such an intellectual one, as I said the political gromada, because Slobodan Jovanovic was also a lawyer, and a historian, and a politician, a sociologist, a literary critic, and I said even a statesman, or Prime Minister. Why it was so not difficult to figure out, but our moral obligation and doing this moral catharsis end up being to adopt this law and to give it to all known and unknown victims practically a confession, or to reconcile them for the sake of the present and the future. Perhaps to answer why Slobodan Jovanovic is still waiting for that rehabilitation, you should remember how it was in 1991 with Bishop Nikolaj, and also with one of Serbia's greatest poets, Jovan Ducic, how long it took for their remains to be transferred and buried where they wanted to be, in Trebinj, or in Lelic near Valjev. This intellectual contempt for demagogy and, of course, partisan fanaticism, as Slobodan Jovanovic used to say most often, may well illustrate one quote and I will end it. It was a gathering of a political party in 1896, which said: "All this endless crowd went as it came, after listening to the words of its champions and eating several chariots of watermelons, whose crusts had been dragging on Topcider Hill for weeks." Perhaps it is also the greatest sin of such intellectuals, which, of course, is our obligation and those we have learned in his works and books, to correct that injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25221	Thank you. So, you're in favour or against Mr. Rankic's amendment? Thank you. Mr. Baralic, you have your word. MP Rajko Baralic, I will tell you later about the amendment of Branislav Rankic, which requires that article 2 be deleted. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25222	Mr. President, and between the watermelon and the fatty molar there's a big difference, this watermelon thing is easier to wash with cold water, and this can be done by some other means. I'd like to support the amendment being deleted, but I can't and now I'm going to try and say why. Otherwise, we could lose legal tools if this law was passed. Even for these committed and committing crimes in a new time, it might happen that there is no one in the name of those who are going to get hurt, and will certainly be killed, initiating a rehabilitation initiative. For example, the Holmec case, Brezgarov is missing, is that what the Slovenian state prosecutor is called, she has no intention of processing the shooting of Serbian boys waving white sheets in any way. So, contrary to the decisions of the Geneva Convention, contrary to some other important decisions, the boys have been liquidated. I'm afraid someone here in Serbia doesn't think of it, and that's what I'm talking about right now, that they're accusing an elder of Caraula Holmec and his superiors of being tried for the Slovenian territoriality of the Serbian boys. As some other procedures for death are being conducted, unfortunately, soldiers in Serbia, where not those who have shelled them are accused, but those who have commanded them. And some of the victims were also mentioned here today by Mr Krasic. Well, if by chance they weren't found guilty, and in a hundred years' time no one would be able to look for their rehabilitation, this member shouldn't be erased, otherwise it would be perfectly normal for me to support his erasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25223	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Any other MPs? No thanks. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic, and I will read it now because of those inconsistencies. So, request to be a member of 2. The bill is amended and it reads: "Rehabilitation request can be submitted by any interested natural or legal person, and the right to apply for rehabilitation does not go out of date". A amendment like this was adopted by a representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Technically, I'm just asking if anyone's going to say a word. No, I don't. Thank you. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Government does not accept it. That someone wants a word, too? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. I am really warning you one more time, they have also asked MPs several times, the Legislative Committee to either reject the amendment or to say that it is legally possible. Such a formulation that the amendment refuses simply brings us into an extremely unpleasant situation. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25224	Well, Mr. President, the question is whether this Legislative Committee has a quorum to do, but let's not do that now, since I haven't conducted an independent investigation. And when I conduct an investigation, then I'm going to tell you whether it's true or not, but let's go over there and have some paper, that something was written by the Legislative Committee. Mr. Sarovic has submitted an amendment requiring that Article 3 be deleted. Of course, we want to remove this text of the bill, and I'm simply asking you not to vote like this so it doesn't become a law, because if it becomes a law, we'll have a lot more headaches than we should. Before I speak specifically of this amendment, I would just ask that when you come out here if you have no other word to challenge the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party or to support the government's initiative, please do not dig up war axes, bury them, and partisans, and brushes, and this, and that. Well, you see, for the sixth time I've been out of this law, I've never used those words. Nor do I want to regain my memory of what it was, but I just want to objectively interpret what the norm is proposed and what tomorrow is going to be. I can tell you in advance what can happen. I have some experience, I can tell what's going to happen, so tomorrow wouldn't happen, when some side asks the question of the minister -- it's the law, what's the matter, so I don't know, we have problems, so we couldn't apply it, as we've been constantly listening to the law for five years why it doesn't apply. What's written in Article 3? An application for rehabilitation is submitted to the Belgrade District Court. The Belgrade District Court is becoming a first-degree court, in charge of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. From what I understand, the minister was showing something with his fingers, I'm guessing eight judges are going to judge, three in District and five in the Supreme. It says, "The request contains personal data from a person whose rehabilitation is required and evidence of justification is required." What could be proof of the justification of the demands? Just now, Mr. Kristin here read two or three papers and said that's all the family has. Even after a while, a lawyer sought and received notice that there was no record. What happens if that request is resolved, and after three or four years, it has nothing to do with that example Mr. Krstin made, someone comes up with some other documentation from the historical archive, so it's something else. This situation is not touched at all by this bill, and we all plead the truth, about justice, and everyone who comes out here is saying that absurd truth and absolute justice are in what they say. When everyone pulls out an object here and brings out a few data, everyone says, "If that was it, it's not right, a man needs to be rehabilitated somehow." You have other situations, I will not specifically quote names, where the man who helped everyone who shot at the Germans and the Bulgarians in Nis, when there was a great freedom, his best man, the Skojevac, took him to the bank, closed him for two days, and he got some paper that he was an enemy associate, and during the war he earned 180,000, and then the other team came, and then he estimated that 180,000 was about one house of two, how many. That one house is from his great-grandfather. In the meantime, it happened that the family had experienced some chicaning, and in the meantime they were protected tenants in one house, and the other house that was taken away from them, it was a bought-out apartment. When cousins come to Nis, to that house of theirs from Chukunda, they have to look at a neighbor who's been smitten in theirs. It's impossible to correct today. To make things even weirder, children are intellectuals, familiar with law, they have good lawyers, etc. It's impossible to correct. The only thing that can be corrected is possibly that stain that stands, but the documents are gone, and in the meantime, the man has maximum rehabilitated himself with his relationship in society, in his way of life, etc. If this right is put only to the Belgrade District Court, I must immediately tell you that there is nothing to it. Here's why. If the president of that court is ready, able to receive a visit to Karl del Ponte and these other persecutors, even to boast how they made the departments, how they would do this, what if in that court it should be, like that Cavlina, you remember that judge, he was an investigative judge in the Marjanovic case against Djindjic. Someone planted Djindjic, instead of $100,000, added another zero, so a million tons of wheat fell out. He organized a press conference, attacked there. However, every normal man knows that for a million tons of wheat it takes a year to do export work, to gather all over Vojvodina, and to reach some streams, and to overload. It's an impossible job, Malten. This Cavlina asked Mirko Marjanovic to give up and not go after Zoran Djindjic. Of course, Zoran Djindjic was somehow saved. It's that District Court in Belgrade. There are judges there, holding pictures of you MPs. When someone attacks you in the papers, they make up something about you, make sure there are some women judges in the District Court who glue your picture and that text, advertise with it and say, "This is the bear of the divine." When someone comes, they say - I've got this idiot MP, it's his picture. Those judges are doing it. Those who were specifically chosen in 2001 to pursue persecution should decide on someone's rehabilitation. Literally speaking, you're pushing him bears into a hole. Like a wolf should guard the herd. You know how they're going to keep it - selectively, to the final sequences. Even if Biljana Kovacevic-Vucho comes in here! She represented some of them from here, so she says, "it's a crime, but the problem is it wasn't in Criminal Law." She's representing someone as a lawyer! Stevan Lilic lost the procedure that he was a plagiarizer only because of Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, she misrepresented him. Slutty and dirty plagiarizer Stevan Liliæ. She gives advice to some, and she needs to give a warrant to a judge how to judge. People, who are you giving the law to, the Belgrade District Court? He showed himself to his subjects, you see for yourself what is done. Subject Milanovic. Without the intention of touching my parents' feelings, losing a child is the greatest loss a man can get, but it's one dimension. If these fuckers are collected from the NGO sector, answers, raise media tension, and even initiate proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, before the court in Germany and everyone there loses, and they guarantee that they will get there, then break in one Dragoljub Milanovic. Command 37 doesn't exist, she's withdrawn, the General Staff put her out of control, the Ministers need you to know that. The threat of public security would be traffic, and during the war some other crimes apply. And you should know that. Then for all the leaders of the NATO Pact. Batic says, "It's really embarrassing how to talk to Carla del Ponte, with Javier Solana, and he has a first degree verdict, he's convicted of crimes against peace." Then the prosecutor must give up prosecution, because Batic cannot greet a war criminal, but a respected gentleman who wrote us the Constitutional Charter and other things. Can't be the district court's jurisdiction. You cannot pass this law, because you will feed those who are full of hate and who want revenge. I don't get into that left, right, top, bottom side, I don't care at all, but this inaccuracies of the law gives every motherfucker the opportunity to interpret him any way he wants to. There's no objective criteria here. That's why everything's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25225	National MP Alexander Vucic, by the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25226	I have one notice for the MPs. I came with one new piece of information, and with one of these "yellow" thieves, they're still taking money until they're sitting in the National Assembly, but it looks like they're tracking a TV feed. Namely, the first thing that happened is the fact, I want to inform the citizens of Serbia above all, as well as the MPs, that Simic, a man known for the "coffer" affair, with those 100,000 euros arrested, detained, and now released, has been appointed as adviser to the governor for banking issues. Looks like it's his "punishment" for a suitcase. What am I supposed to say after this to the citizens of Serbia? What after you tell anyone in this country? So much for fighting corruption, Mr. Minister, so much for the rule of law, so much for how problems are solved. These yellow thieves, who at the moment are taking away the money of the people and receiving salaries, flats and everything else, led by Tadic and the largest tycoons in Serbia, Gilas, Krstic and others, have sent a statement because the SRS is an obsession, they say - he is a former member of the SRS or I don't know what. I don't know about that, but I know he's yellow. That's probably why we threw him out in time because we saw that he was some kind of an ass who would sell the country. Where did he find refuge? In the right place. The natural environment, it's where it's housed, and so it would now destroy Serbia's territory. Serbian citizens should re-evaluate how some do it, what their final intention is and what they would do from Serbia. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, since I saw you make one smart statement today about one of the government's representatives, you've made quite a statement about how they make strange statements, etc. Some ministers, I agree with that, so I ask you, do you, Mr. Minister, agree with the fact that a man known as one of the participants in the affair gets the post of governor for banking matters. Will the suitcases now be taken out of every place, entered into every place and told every citizen of Serbia - you when you kidnap 100,000 euros or when you receive a bribe of 100,000 euros, you are welcome to be the governor's advisor. If that's a message to the citizens of Serbia, then it's a very bad message from the government. I hope not, and I'd like to hear your answer, but I'm pretty sure it's going to cause a lot of anger and dissatisfaction. Usually when someone talks and says there's no dissatisfaction, he's not on the streets, people don't go to protests, people don't go to daily strikes, etc. People don't go, but people get collected and it can happen, even though we'll never ask people to react in the way that some people predicted, and it's against them, and not against what our political opponents wanted. I want to warn you that people who lose their jobs, people who have a hard time living, people who don't have the wages we have, or don't give God the wages and receipts as many Serbian tycoons as they have, like Dragan Gilas and similar to him, so people who live the lives of ordinary people who live ordinary lives, these people can't look with sympathy at the promotion of thieves, criminals, those who are caught with suitcases in their hands. So pay attention to that, because as men will not show you anger and anger, nor can they, and they are bitter that you can't believe as much for the fact that you fired Jova Djoga's daughter, Jova Djog's wife, grab your head all you want, bang all the benches you want, sigh and exhale as many times as you want. And that's what it says about you, that's what it says about those who do it, because it shows that you don't want to understand the fate of the ordinary world, the fate of ordinary people, that you don't care about it, because it can happen to anyone and why it wouldn't happen to anyone else afterwards. When it can happen to them today, tomorrow it can happen to you or to anyone, and then I'd ask you what you're going to live on, how you're going to feed your family, how your family will, while you're in custody, and you don't know why you're in custody, because the great democratic government has arrested you, and it's largely democratic because she has declared herself democratic, what you're going to do in custody, and you expect what your wife and daughter live on. I ask you, Minister, come out and say as I asked you for killed in RTS, and I ask you for this to answer me, tell me by whose order Jova Djoga's daughter was fired, on whose criminal order the wife of Jova Djoga was fired, whose order is the arrest of comrades of General Mladic's son. They are not Mladic's comrades, they are fellows of General Mladic's son. What are we talking about here and talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25227	We are talking, Mr. Vukic, about an amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I've already turned my attention once, I have no intention of interrupting you, I'm giving you the opportunity to use your time, but I warn you that you are speaking by article 103 and that it is my duty, because of all the MPs, to remind you that you must speak of a subject that is on the agenda. It's my duty and I ask you to honor it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25228	I've stayed, Mr. President, without a word after the information that one of your suitcase masters has become your advisor to the governor for banking matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25229	I'm sure it's not, Mr. Wolfie. You know very well that this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in no way determines who will return to another institution after the investigation process after leaving prison. Be correct, we'll get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25230	And then the mammoth wrapped up the chocolate. Excuse me, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I don't think that's your call. I wanted to meet the citizens of Serbia and I'm sorry I missed the topic and I wasn't talking about rehabilitation, and you're wrong about this last part. He's about the rehab law right now, and that's why you broke me up in the wrong place. Once again, I urge Minister Stojkovic to answer my orders for the dismissal of his wife and daughter Jova Djog. I'm just curious about where the morale of those people is, I'm finishing up Mr. President, who would make every little thing a television and newspaper story, and they haven't asked any of the members of that family, who dared to take away their right to work, to take away their ability to live the lives of normal and ordinary people, whose fault is none, because you didn't establish any criminal charges for them, or charges, or anything else. I expect, because someone in Serbia must provide an answer to that. I don't know who will if you won't answer that. I know some people look forward to it, I guess you don't look forward to it, don't look like a man like that, but at least tell us what it's about. Tell us who these villains are who do these things, and for these suitcases we know who these villains are, the people know, and they'll know how to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25231	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Istvan Ispanović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25232	I submitted an amendment to Article 3, by partially changing the text, and I added two more points. As for attitude 1, where the Belgrade District Court is designated as the sole court, I simply cannot accept it. Namely, I don't know if the motionor was counting on how many cases there would be in the first place on rehabilitation. By my count, there could be tens of thousands. I don't know how the Belgrade District Court, which is already loaded, will have one special department, another special department, how this very large and in some cases will be a very responsible task, so I suggested that it be all the county courts in the country, because it's the only way to end all the cases that will be before this court in a relatively short time. The second thing I suggested was to prove these cases subject to this law. So, cases, today it's talked about and in the principle debate, there's no practical evidence, there's almost no evidence in some cases. How, then, will the court handle such cases? I am afraid that the court will simply dismiss some cases because the parties will not be able to provide any evidence on the basis of which such judicial decisions should be made. That's why I wrote here in Section 3 that it should allow future parties, if they have no evidence, to accept to describe the event that took place and on the basis of this court's official duty to obtain all the necessary documentation to solve such cases. I think it's in the interests of the parties and that it should accept such an option, because I'm afraid some cases won't be able to be investigated for these reasons. The next thing I suggested in Section 4, and I also don't understand why it wasn't accepted, I said that the rehabilitation process, as well as the obtaining of evidence from Article 2, paragraph 2, was released from all taxis and expenses. We're not going to ask victims or their heirs to pay you and some court fees for seeking to rehabilitate their ancestors. I guess they won't charge various photocopy archives, for looking for documentation, etc. the clients some expenses. So I don't understand why it's not acceptable for the motion that this procedure be free of all costs. I would ask the minister again to consider these suggestions and accept my amendment, but if the minister does not do so, I ask my fellow Members to help me and to vote this amendment, because it is in the interest of these rehabilitated persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-10-0.u25233	Thank you, Mr. Ispanović, thank you for your understanding of the weather. Is there another MP group after this amendment who wants a word? (No) Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Prime Minister has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. You explained the amendment. Then we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, uh, we'll, uh, Thank you very much. Good-bye and good-bye.
