ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25234	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Brance Stojanović, Zivodarka Dacin, Vladimir Milankov and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a REHABILITATION LAW (specificity) to Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP Verica Radeta. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Cvetkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Istvan Ispanovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25235	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to add a new article 7a behind Article 7. It is a compensation for damages, i.e. the reimbursement of property for persons referred to in Article 1. However, since the government has accepted an amendment similar to mine, it is about how the property is recovered, and since Mr. Minister has promised that this year there will be a law to regulate this issue, I am withdrawing my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25236	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Government did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25237	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really fascinated by the legal ignorance of the president of the Legislative Committee of Mr Aligrudic, who is persistently writing some reports to the National Assembly, where he says, "based on Articles 79 and 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly to reject the following amendments." I do not know which time I have already explained to the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and once again, Article 147 reads: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments which have been submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected." Article 79, which is also called on by the Legislative Committee, states in four positions how the Committee decides, most of the votes, etc. So, there's no way to suggest that our amendments, as it says here, are being rejected because our amendments are neither illegal nor offensive. In this way, our attitude towards the law, the SRS parliamentary group said in principle that the Rehabilitation Act, as it is, cannot be accepted and that we will not vote for it. The only way, and we've shown you a hundred times, to express our position is to propose to the National Assembly, or before that to the Government, that all members of this law be individually deleted, because this is our relationship to your proposal for a law that is disastrously bad. Article 8. The bill says the law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this member is in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution. If we propose to delete all previous members, all seven members of this law, then it is perfectly logical to delete that member too. If our amendments are accepted, then there's nothing to be published in the Official Messenger. Otherwise, since you ran through these few amendments quickly, from 4th to 8, we couldn't talk about details, but I will also briefly remind you of the principled position of the SRS that we can't accept that rehabilitation is decided only by the District Court in Belgrade, because we think that there are enough good and qualified judges throughout Serbia and we don't see why this would be a privilege of the Belgrade District Court. I don't know why you think the best and most trusted people are here, and I don't know what kind of judges, if you think only that court can solve the question of rehabilitation. So, this is one of our principled objections, especially because we have very bad experience with your various special and specialized courts, or major, departments, prosecutors, beginning with those for organised crime, who decide on the basis of statements of protected witnesses, to those for war crimes that also decide on statements of protected witnesses, and those witnesses in our justice are what they are nowhere in the world, these are the main executors and they are your main evidence material, or their statements and based on such statements by our specialised courts, they judge and, of course, fearing such experience, we have responded to the amendment to a member who defines the Belgrade District Court to carry out these tasks. When it comes to rehabilitation, you have here predicted that people who have been persecuted since 6 April 1941 are rehabilitated and, of course, there have been a lot of words about why this date, why not some others etc. But I have to ask what will happen, according to which law and when will all those people who have been persecuted in various ways be rehabilitated, from the five-octobaric "buldozer revolution", and believe me, in these five years, the most political persecution on the political scene of Serbia, however much you play false Democrats and quack Democrats, is what's done in this so-called Democracy with political opponents, it's nowhere in the world in any modern civilized country you can meet. I am really asking how and who will rehabilitate, in which way, all those who have come to the government of the five-octobar revolutionaries will be likened to cancel, who will rehabilitate all 12,000 or how many have already been arrested in the action "Sabbe", their families who have suffered various pressures and obstacles to the views of the neighbours and members of the wider family. So who's going to make up for what the five-octobaric government did to these people. What are you going to say about that Sutanovac, who on a show called Pyramid, when Uroš Šuvaković, who was his opponent on that show, draws attention to wearing 600-euro shoes, says it is accidentally October 5th and shows off with his foot (so that he kicks Shuvakovic with his foot that he is October 5th) and announces a new 5th in that show. Now, the message for both Sutanovec and Tadic's greatest tycoon, the thief of Gilas, for all of you who regretted that it was not October 6th – it will never be the same October 5th, you will never again welcome the fact that you missed October 6th, and your intention was clear to you – that you are killing and closing. And so I ask you, when you spoke and proposed this law on rehabilitation, did you take care of your own, or the parts of all of you five-octobar revolutionaries, who will rehabilitate your victims?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25238	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25239	A report by the Legislative Committee on Individual Amendments once states that we are proposing that they be rejected as a Legislative Committee. It is simply because there are two options: to propose that the amendment be accepted or rejected, and that is done by each committee. I don't know what time I'm talking about this speaker, because my understanding is different from my practice so far, and I'm going to try all the time to convince both the President of Parliament and my colleagues to change that. It is not good that the report of the Legislative Committee states that the amendment is legally possible, it is contained in the work of the Legislative Committee. So what the Legislative Committee is considering, it is determined by the Rules of Procedure through the content of its work, and acceptance and refusal are proposals made to the Assembly. In my opinion, the Legislative Committee should also have an expression in its report: we propose that the amendment be accepted, not legally possible. The issue of the legal possibility of amendments is the subject of the work of the Legislative Committee, and the form of the proposal is something quite different that goes before the Assembly. However, this has been common so far, so this dilemma arises whether we suggest that the amendment be rejected or simply found not legally possible. I think it's okay that the amendment is proposed to be rejected, because it implies only one thing that the Legislative Committee is authorized to do. Secondly, I will remind you that decisions on the Legislative Committee are taken by the majority of the votes of the least absolute majority of the members of the Legislative Committee, and therefore, the President of the Legislative Committee does not make any decision by itself, nor can it directly affect that decision, except by its own vote, which is equal to the other votes in the Legislative Committee. Secondly, when it is proposed that an amendment is not accepted, i.e. that it is rejected because it is not legally possible, it implies that the Legislative Committee has considered this amendment from the aspect of its work, and not from the aspect of the form, because the amendment has been considered from the aspect of the form and that the proposed rejection is not really possible to propose rejection, but to reject it directly on the board, so such an amendment could never be found in the assembly sitting, nor could it be considered here. Therefore, whenever any committee of the Assembly, whether it is a Legislative or any other resolution committee, proposes that the amendments be rejected, it is only a proposal from the Committee to the Serbian Parliament that does not have to respect the proposal. We have seen, of course, that there have been amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee for refusal, so they passed through at this session of the Serbian Parliament, that is, the Parliament itself when voting on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25240	The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25241	You, Mr. Mihailovich, from this morning on as if you were working on the norm, started to stamp out our amendments all the time until they were Serbian radicals. I suppose you've had so much hearing and democracy that you can see that MPs are just coming in, not walking in to talk to a colleague of Radet. Well, we're not gonna push on this door like you do when you get out of the O.R. when you find the quorum, but rather nicely, politely, civilisedly, I'll come to my place. I am truly surprised that neither you nor the President of the Assembly have checked what is happening to the Legislative Committee. Coli Krasic warned you nicely that it is not only discriminatory, but that there is an open suspicion that the board does not have a quorum to decide on. If that's the case, otherwise Article 147 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure, or 146, then the team before and astounds me with this reasoning and the inability to submit the amendment, according to the interpretation of counterpart Aligrudic, and also the minister, based on what I have submitted as Article 8. From the whole concept and the whole presentation of the SRS MPs, you have clearly seen that our goal is not to bring this law into force, because we believe that this law, and we have seen this in the course of discussions in detail and in principle, is to open up some more historical disagreements, disputes, interpretations in one way or another. It is essentially incomplete on a number of cases, from submitting requests, through taking periods of face rehabilitation. Who are they who can do it and who can file for it? You know, the victims of Nazism and fascism and those who are under Ustasha genocide, and above all Hitler's Nazi Germany died in the largest number in the areas where Serbs live, I mean the largest, unfortunately, Serb city underground – Jasenovac; I mean the central part of Serbia, over 7,000 victims in Kragujeva's "Shumarica" in one day; by opening up the story that some people who say to themselves are some Democrats, is a typical example of Dragoljub Micunovic, he is one of the founders of DS, came second by the father's system of murderers, replaced him and they are gone. He now has his own heroes who lie, kidnap, deceive the people, have become rich in a period of a year, two or three days, such as this main tycoon, Gilas, and this same Dragoljub Micunovic is asking for himself (he is the chairman of the political council and member of the DS presidency) to apply for rehabilitation. At the same time, people appear day and day, thank God, alive and some ladies who have had many years less than Micunovic on the Golo Island. Here, I know the example of his wife, at the time she was 18 years old, she stayed on the naked island of Dragoljub Micunović. He played a very clear and unquestionable role there, which we spoke of by our president more than 10 years ago. Therefore, not only is all of this written in many members a discussion, but it opens up new issues and new ideological issues and whatever differences you want. This is in no way in the post of reconciliation that the SRS advocates, and you, today's Democrats, should show in your actions and in your words that you really want a democratically arranged society and that you do not want lustration or persecution of political opponents. But how is it that when you offer a coalition of Sutanovac, who besides being held in the last meeting, who knows how many dozens of severances from the Federal Defence Ministry and who, with 700 euros on his shoes, threatens to kick them and act like one or the other? You offer such a coalition and you see your perspective with such. Then what are we talking about? To talk about what some did to people and how communists treated Serbian patriots over 60 years ago, or Germans and fascists, as is the case in Kragujevac. Well, Mr. Aligrudic, if you had a little bit of consideration for the fact that this is a trace of the SRS concept and according to my amendment to Article 8, which I'm asking to delete, you wouldn't be so quick to react or send a memo, which I'm not sure about, I don't even know when you chaired the Legislative Committee, or if there was a quorum there, because very often it happens. On the other hand, it's better, Mr. Aligrudic, since you're still the backbone of this kind of coalition, to think a little bit about these villains across the street. The building across the street, through Chedin Zebra, is filled with crime, tycoon and those who are willing to betray and sell the land. Think about it, not about turning down my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25242	National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25243	Of course, I respect all the motives for which amendments are submitted and I consider them all legitimate. In the end, everyone has the right to write whatever amendment, even one to delete. I also respect the position of a parliamentary group that wants to express its view of the law by demanding that the latter, or coherently, all members of each law be deleted, in such a way as to simply show their attitude towards the law. This is perfectly legitimate and ultimately in order to get a formal right to report on the amendments to a number of members of the parliamentary group and to discuss any amendment submitted, regardless of its content, which is also legitimate. No one has any intention of ever stopping it, and that's how it's gonna be. It is simply because the decisions of the Legislative Committee which express their opinion, in this case negatively, according to the amendments, do not prevent any debate on these amendments and do not aim to do so, but rather aim to indicate whether certain amendments are coherent in relation to the legal system or to a concrete draft of the law that lies before us. If we have an amendment to an attack on the provisions of the legislation, i.e. The final provision on the entry into force of the law, the adoption of such an amendment would corrupt the law to the extent that it would be practically impossible. Therefore, we are not considering amendments in their generality or generality, in a logical sense that the parliamentary group that has submitted had in mind, which I repeat, I find legitimate and normal. So these amendments on the Legislative Committee are not seen in their entirety, but individually according to the MP who submitted them and in the sense of the provisions which are touched by the amendment. There have therefore been cases on the Legislative Committee that some amendments to the same parliamentary groups have been declared legally impossible, i.e. proposed that they be rejected, while others with the same content compared to other members of the same bill were considered legally possible. Simply because we looked at which member of the law amendments apply and whether eradicating that member is even possible in the context of the adoption of the bill. For the congregation must come from the assumption that the bill is given to adopt, not to be brought down. In the end, if we break the law in the Assembly, it collapses, first of all, immediately after the adoption of the principle or, if certain amendments fail, it can be brought down at another point, which is when the law is adopted in general. Therefore, these are the two moments when it is possible to react to the law and bring it down realistically, and I truly appreciate the efforts of each member of parliament to express its position in the way it foresees and does not consider it illegal or bad. On the other hand, it is not possible to charge a certain committee in the Serbian Parliament, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, has a precise task of not doing its job in relation to concrete amendments, just because it should take into account the coherence or overall proposal that has been made. It is, therefore, politically legitimate, procedurally legitimate, but from the point of view of the Legislative Committee, it has a certain opinion, positive or negative, which has no impact on the debate in the Assembly, nor has it a direct impact on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25244	Mr. Krasic, from your MP group, they asked for a word before you. But you have the advantage of answering the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25245	Mr. Mihailovich, for your sake and for your people's messengers, please just answer me. So, I'm going out to the Rules of Procedure, how much longer, for this amendment, does the SRS have?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25246	You've got seven minutes and 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25247	What is the look at the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Please, in a small room, you're holding some counseling, I don't know who's being advised and what's being advised about. However, the National Assembly is a public institution, but it is not a public house to advise everyone about everything. There are NGOs, there are other locations, so they can consult there. That's the first thing, now I'm going to get a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The SRS parliamentary group is the most numerous. The SRS MPs were the first to come in this morning and report to that desk that they're ready to work today. When the SRS was supposed to organise a session of its parliamentary group, there was a problem that there was nowhere to be held, and then we had to, as some illegals, get together in the hallway, work out what we're going to do today. And you used more or less to verify all possible amendments and to get to the last, eighth, and to say, well, yes, that's the height of democracy, we've created a quorum. Here, those who made the quorum - they ran away, they're gone. So the form has mastered the essence. If we are here in the National Assembly just because of the mere form that there are 250 people who are allegedly some MPs, allegedly representing some citizens, then I must tell you that the SRS does not share that opinion. Here we need to talk, talk, convince each other, show the citizens what's in the bill, so they know what's waiting for them tomorrow. Today, you denied me and some of the SRS MPs the opportunity to warn future judges, or judges who would judge in these rehabilitation cases, what would happen to them. As soon as they take the object, they'll lute themselves immediately. Why? Because they are by themselves the law, they need to put a finger on their foreheads and say what a political reason is, what an ideological reason, and ideology, that's a view – a view of the world, of life, of a life problem. Now someone's going to rehabilitate someone for a view. And yesterday we had a chance to point out to you the complexity of the 1941 case, so the 2003 cases. Is it possible that there's something going on today that's supposed to be rehabilitating someone tomorrow, and we have no criteria, but we need to force the law here? The evidence of that force is exactly what you've been carrying out. You quickly checked those amendments. Let me just remind you, when some of the parliamentary groups, parties that make up power and most in the Assembly, organises their meeting, you don't start with a session, you interrupt, you wait, and this is how you harass us and you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. What member? And members 28 and 100 and 104. If you want me to tell you, essentially, from the letter "p" to the last sentence, it's published in "The Official Messenger."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25248	Mr. Krassic, I owe you an answer. You know the session starts at ten o'clock. You came in at 10.20 and you're angry that you didn't have time to explain your amendments. Mr. Wolfie, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25249	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Krasic is absolutely right. We entered at 10:15, and you started at 10:08 p.m., Mr. Chairman, and in those seven minutes you passed seven amendments, and you established a quorum for two or three minutes. I understand that, I guess you're in a hurry, so you'll get some time. The problem is that no one informed us, and we agreed yesterday to hold, as usual, a small group of MPs in the small hall, and then we gathered in the halls. It was a little short for us to go to a restaurant, but I'm counting on some smart journalists to come up with some pork and lamb. Then what do you do, you have to be like deaf bitches to get together? So someone can ask what they're organizing -- some kind of hiduk divorce or I don't know what. Anyway, this law that you want to adopt, and you're going to adopt it, because you're going to provide 126 of those who are going to enter the O.R., is not going to do Serbia any good. Any amendment you would accept, including amendment by Natasha Jovanovic, would essentially mean the abolition of the law, i.e. the inability to survive in legal traffic, as long as you vote it. That's why we invite you to accept our amendments, because you couldn't survive in legal traffic such a law. What's this about? You're the one who passed the Rehabilitation Act, and in legal traffic, the Lustration Act, we have a law enforcement law. At least for the DSS people, I know they agree with me. You hold that, and you don't know for yourself what. I don't know if you've noticed, the worst in this country, when they can't get hold of the voices of the people, they say we need lustration. They need lustration because everything with a stick when they jump can't get up to 3% to do their homework, so they need to do the best they can, the ones the people want to choose, the ones people want to vote for -- let's forbid them to do political activity, because we can't do anything to them with their ideas or their brains or anything else. Why don't you put it out of force? You have a proposal for Serbian radicals. Is that what you're threatening someone on the political scene? We don't want to threaten anyone with that. We've been listening for the last few days, and now I'm going to run a little bit of an analysis of what this democratic attitude towards political opponents looks like. When we say something about one of our political opponents, there's a hundred concubines, false analysts, they're analysts for a plate of cabbage and a plate of beans you give them at Thunderbolt, and they write whatever they want and say what they want. He's laughing and Albianic. He knows I'm right. They appear immediately and say – they are nervous radicals, imagine saying a word here and there. Look at the words we've been listening to in the last days of those who should be the most responsible in this country, because they represent the top of the regime. Fecal Question Advisor is threatening the poles. As you say: come with that stick, then he calls his editors and journalists to say: they threaten you from the Assembly. Imagine, they're not going to run away from you, they're still threatening you and they're going to wait for you. It's a terrible threat. Then for his political opponent who, by the way, kicks them in some show, as Shuvakovic broke Sutanovac and Sretkovic, Sutanovac says: "Shuvakovic is a jerk and an ass." Guys, what are we talking about here? Are these democratic methods of political struggle? Is that a democratic statement? Is that how you communicate with political opponents? It seems to me to be the highest degree of democracy of the new democratic authorities. I have a question – will rehabilitation be valid, I hope you rehabilitated at least one thief and criminal from those who stole those powerful paintings on October 5th, when you entered the Federal Assembly, will you rehabilitate them? To remind citizens of Serbia, 175 top works of art disappeared, worth around 22m euros. It was invaluable. A gang broke in, they set fire to the congregation, and they started taking pictures. The fact that they were wearing TV, etc., that's a little something. That's what's left for them, like when football players share their uniforms at the end, when they win a game, so they take TV, curtains, etc. It was for a memory, that we understood. Will you rehabilitate those who kidnapped the most famous paintings of the most important Serbian painters, and not only the Serb ones, who existed in the Federal Assembly? I see about 73, if I'm not mistaken, I've tried to remember the exact number, they're not back yet. They seem to have realized that pictures of 30,000 and 50,000 euros should both remain to be remembered. I wonder if it'll be for rehab, too, if anyone ever does, if anyone ever says, "I'm sorry, there were some thieves among you." We're surprised, we expected it to be all a fine world, a democratic, democratic change to bring us, they won't steal, they won't kidnap. Will it be for rehabilitation and those who today boast that at an annual level they have 5m euros in profits by selling air, such as the largest tycoon in Serbia today, this Gilas? Will everyone in this country be for rehabilitation, except for the ones you've been persecuting? That's why you won't let Milanovic go out on weekends, because you're going to say he's under special conditions, and those who killed people will come and command you how to behave in the future. Is that true? Yeah, that's true. Look what's going on today. We think about democracy, the ones who are the worst autocrats on the globe of the Earth. Just look at the Secretary of Defense or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are the people who, I'll remind you, when the Croats beat up and arrested that guy who took pictures with the picture of General Mihailovic, it doesn't matter whose place, at the pay of the Jelačić bank, because they forgot to say the square, so the crying is closer to them. And Hitler, when they welcomed him, was closer and clearer to them. So they arrest people for 15 days. Imagine, condemning him for taking pictures with the painting, setting up a man of Croatian intelligence to approach to beat him up, then beating him up first, and then arresting him. To all of this, the great equinox, the foreign minister, and it was a shame not only on Serbia, but on every decent Serb, not on his ideology, says, "What did he need to wear some pictures? "Was that a reaction? Will you rehabilitate them in such a way, the people who were convicted, who were actually condemned by the Serbian regime? You want to rehabilitate all the victims of that villain, Zoran Stankovic? (President: Time.) As you know, Mr. Michaelovich, our time is yet to come, but I'll be careful, for another minute and I won't be long. So, Zoran Stankovic, no less, every day he arrests someone. In arrest breaks, Zoran Stankovic deals with job layoffs. We're being attacked here by some of them, and they say, "You fired nine people, you fired 46 people." No, we're gonna fire. Of course we're gonna hire, and he's gonna fire. But he will fire only those who are against his criminal policies and who are much more capable and wiser than he is. They saw a smart and good officer escorting Milosevic, his name is Milisav Pančić, a human, a soldier's right, a colonel of our army, living in a barracks with his wife and family; there's no apartment in the barracks, there's nothing. After he showed up for the send-off, a tough villain and a criminal Stankovic, to court the big Democrats, he says – you can't be an officer anymore, now you're going to the street, you're going to retire. Is that how it works? Who's going to rehabilitate Milizav Pancic, he's about to be the colonel? Do you want to rehabilitate him? Will someone let him live? Will someone make it possible for the Jova Djoga family to live? No response from the criminals who fired his wife and daughter. There's no answer to that. We don't have to go to 1941 and 1942 to dig up five-pointed and cocardines, or I don't know what. We don't need that. No one in Serbia will ever do that again. We should have one flag – our red-and-white banner and we should all be under that banner and under that flag, and not be those who serve some others and who will kill Serbia every day, be the greatest Democrats in doing so, and salt our minds that no one is good, no one can do anything, everyone will ruin Serbia, only they will bring Serbia well. (Chairman: Mr. Wolfie, please, time. I'm done, thank you for your patience, you're very kind and very correct. Serbia does not need a law on rehabilitation in which it will be interpreted in such an arbitrary way. I ask you, Minister, which judge of the District Court is going to make decisions to rehabilitate Dragoljub Milanovic? What judge is going to rehabilitate some Milizav Pancic? What judge is going to rehabilitate the daughter of Jova Djog who's guilty just because she's a Serb woman who knew a Serb there? Either it'll serve you only to rehabilitate your political associates, your political predecessors or someone else. That's why this law is bad, and I call on the MPs and those who have decided to vote "against" if you want to vote "against," don't enter the hall, don't give them a quorum. If you want to give them a quorum, then don't say anything against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25250	The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25251	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. One notice, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, because it is the duty of the President of the Assembly to take care of the work of professional services, so that someone doesn't think or that the public wouldn't accidentally think that there is discrimination against some MPs in relation to other MPs, I am obliged to inform the citizens that they don't know. The assembly works under impossible conditions. The MPs are working under impossible conditions. There's not enough space in the Assembly. The small hall, in which the parliamentary group, because of the number of its MPs, wanted to hold a meeting, which is completely understandable to me, because in the rooms where meetings are normally held there is not enough room. The press has nowhere to work. It takes a few months, we're trying to expand that space from what little money the Assembly got and saved, thanks to you. Now we're trying to rebuild it. The press can't keep track of work from a small gym. You have all read the European Commission's report, which says that all of you who participated in the work, first of all in the second part of 2005, contributed, whatever views you represented, to make this institution part of the preconditions to start negotiations. But the report found that the Assembly lacks sufficient professional services, there are not enough employees, that one secretary is on three committees. Now, thanks to help, education is being done in a small hall, that these low-paid people, who, along with you, last year have been eight times more amendments, physically 800% more worked by the Professional Service around these laws, and their salary has not been increased eight times. Now it's about education for these people to rationalise time, to allow all of this to be done appropriately, and it's not just during the debate at the session, but, well, you know how much you work on committees, to allow it to be done. That is why it is not possible, unless it is announced at least 24 hours earlier, that something is done in a small hall, or one of the premises of the Assembly. I'm going to give you a little example in order to be aware of the judges you've chosen and who have to take an oath before the president of the National Assembly have no place to do it, so we moved for days and we agreed, Minister Stojkovic and I, only for Thursday at 10.00 hours, so that, as a group of MPs happened today, the participants of this seminar will wait half an hour outside the gym before they enter. Unfortunately, you all know exactly what conditions we're working on. I thank you for your patience. There's no reason for anyone to think that one party is going to be discriminated against because of it, or some MP, or some parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25252	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, and you, Mr. Omerovic, are after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure say the MP must speak the truth from this pay phone. I came at 10:10, I was a little late, I was passing through here, as if someone, God forbid, threw tear gas into this room, all MPs of the ruling coalition stuck at the door and couldn't get through. That is exactly how it was done long ago in this congregation – they come at 10.00, and in 10.05 they are already on the street. Who will rehabilitate these "cloptocrats" from Belgrade's government tomorrow because of this flood, because of the many crimes they've committed so far, but also because of these gaps that are now making this elemental disaster? The consequences can be catastrophic. The SRS Parliament Club received a letter from Colonel Milutin Radivojjevic, otherwise the owner of a low-rise ship, a ship capable of sailing at this high water level. When the water arrived, Mr. Radivojević offered the crisis headquarters to defend against the floods of Belgrade a ship with a complete crew, with a complete defence that would be on duty at Savi and Dunava in case the boats, barges, rafts were unwinded, and you see for yourself how much on our shores and threaten to permanently damage or even tear down some of the Belgrade bridges. Do you know what they said? For three days, they beat him up and told him in the end they weren't in charge of him. I have another lie to make, because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, someone in Zemun recently appeared in B92, a member of the Roma nationality, and said that the Zemun municipality had given bad food to those who had been evicted from the village "Bearship". Dalita Cerimi, president of the village of Beef Ship, makes a statement saying that this man doesn't even live on the "Beef Ship", since they're connected, they know where they live. He probably doesn't live in any of the Roma settlements in Zemun. This is used in B92, as well as in Belgrade's "clopocrate". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I've been able to interpret this law, they will not be subject to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25254	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, they're right colleagues who spoke before me, who warned about the sprinter start of the day. Because if this principle and this mode of work were applied, we could go through all the laws that are in the congregation procedure by the end of the spring session. It's simply something that stands as an observation and perhaps as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I came forward because we are at the very end of the debate on amendments to the Rehabilitation Act, because I did not have time to talk about one amendment, as regards the amendment to Article 7, which was submitted by my colleague Petar Cvetkovic. I think for that amendment, as far as I was able to catch it in the hall, entering the hall, the chairman said the government had accepted it. Personally, I find this amendment unnecessary. Why do I say that? Simply, the identical provisions adopted by the government under the amendments of counterparts Cvetkovic have already been contained in the second law. I would remind, above all, the Minister and you, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, that on 30 May 2005, our Assembly adopted the Law on the Application and Recording of Disposal of Assets. Article 1 of the said law explicitly states: "This law regulates the application and registration of property that has been seized in the territory of the Republic of Serbia without compensation of market value or fair compensation, the application of rules and acts on nationalisation, agrarian reform, confiscation, sequestration, expropriation and other rules adopted and applied after 9 March 1945." Article 9 of the same law also states: "The legal basis and the rights relating to the return of property or damages on the basis of the property seized under the provisions of this law, as well as the procedure for the request for the return of the seized property or the compensation for that property, will be governed by a special law." So, Mr. Minister, I think the acceptance of this amendment is unnecessary, simply, which in this law already exists provisions governing this matter and therefore I don't think it's a good idea to accept such an amendment. Since we are at the very end of the discussion of the Rehabilitation Act, in the debate in particular, let me just say two sentences. Most of the colleagues, MPs from the SPS and the SRS, said why and why this proposed law should not be adopted. In principle and almost everything, I would agree with what the SPS representatives said, primarily respecting their reasons, i.e. the inability or lack of something that cannot be historically justified at this time, which is that we are changing the results of World War II. Namely, if MPs adopt the proposed law on rehabilitation in the day of voting, it will remain written that this National Assembly has made it possible to rehabilitate some people who have openly co-operated with our country's occupier in World War II. Therefore, I call on the SPS MPs not to enter the hall in the voting day, because it would be the only way to prevent the adoption of such a bad law, as they argued in the debate in principle and in particular, and therefore I expect that they will be principled and consistent anti-fascists and fighters for the truth and the real results of World War II, not that after the stories they have told from this pay phone, they will enter the hall and allow the bad law, as they have confirmed themselves, to pass. Therefore, I call on all MPs not to accept the proposed rehabilitation law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25256	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a word about this law, I'll give you the information you asked for yesterday, we've lost a lot of time, and it's about Trade. I requested information from the republican prosecutor and received that the criminal charges had already been filed, that it had been filed with the municipal prosecutor's office. But since she was considered more competent and for the hard work, she gave it to the county. It is handled on application and a warrant has been given for the acquisition of data and information. So, you're working on it. As far as the law itself is concerned, I really want to thank you for your participation in the discussion. Regardless of the different approaches that exist between parties or individuals, some things have been identified as unquestionable. The first thing, whether there was access from one position or another, is no longer disputed that there were government mistakes and difficult decisions at the expense of individuals. If we agree, that's why we need this law. After such a consultation that the mistakes were, that some people were very hard hit, some lost their lives, we should not ignore it because of our ideological differences. If we already agree that mistakes should be corrected, this law is the only solution. It should not be doubted whether it will be properly applied. The law will indeed be applied to those real cases where there has been a misdemeanor and will be valid for all cases, until the day of the law. No doubt should be expressed about whether it will be applied to 2000, 2001 and 2002. If it is the law, it shall apply to all cases where the State has found itself guilty of an individual. I don't have to tell you much, except I already said that there are cases that this ministry is making decisions, people are being compensated for the damages of the Sabe action, there's about 600 and some cases and people are satisfied because they've got the satisfaction that the state was wrong in their case. You have a series of convictions. Some of them were not satisfied with this manner, so they asked for judgment, and you have judgments to be made. So let's figure out what's really important. There were mistakes, individuals paid dearly, and those mistakes should be corrected if we want to both as a people and as a state to go somewhere in the future. Come on, as I paintly put it, that backpack we're pulling on our backs to put it in the corner and go like all the normal world ahead. The other thing that is important here, regardless of the sighting, either left, right, or center, is that I am pleased that even after discussions like this, it remains in the palm of political dissension. We don't look at each other as enemies here and that's what makes me happy and gives me hope that in the future we'll be able to function that way. I think it's definitely here, and it's been heard more than once, we don't have to as a people and as a state to live in history, but let's let history serve us as a science so that we don't make the same mistakes in the future. For these reasons, I suggest we adopt this law and make sure it is applied, and for all those cases where there have been government failures and mistakes, there will be no ideological approaches to this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25258	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda:– PROPOSAL OF AMNESTIJA (specificity) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajić, Vjerica Radeta, Milovanovic, Milan Stevović, Branislav Rankić, Petar Jojic, Momir Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Mirčić, Petar Cvetković and Ljiljana Nestorović. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Minister, would you like to make a statement on the amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25259	I won't take your time, I just want to say that we will accept Peter Cvetkovic's amendment to Article 1. Basically, it is a technique, because when this law entered the assembly procedure, the old Criminal Law was in force, and now the new Criminal Code is in force, so a valid renumberation was done. For these reasons, we accept this amendment by Peter Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25260	Thank you. From what I understand, it's the only amendment you accept, and you don't accept the other amendments. Okay. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25261	The SRS is against this bill. The previous one, due to indeterminateness, and the one in its totality, is jeopardizing and questioning state unity and the general attitude of citizens towards law and legal obligations. For many, it will probably be better, clearer, if it starts with a shorter historical retrospective of our amnesty, about so-called. war crimes. In the Official Journal of the SRJ, number 28/96, the Law on Amnesty was published and that law has amnested all persons who committed a criminal offence by 14 December 1995, which is crimes covered by Article 1. A bill that's on the agenda today. It was done in connection with the Dayton Agreement, when peace in the former SFRY territory allegedly prevailed. According to one standard that exists in those conventions that regulate international humanitarian law, when armed conflicts end, armed facts; when it is concluded, establish, maintain peace, then, as a rule, this act goes, where all persons who have come into the situation during armed conflicts to commit a criminal act of non-communication, refusal to receive arms, refusal to participate in defence, etc. Of course, the state that decides on it has total autonomy to assess what procedure it will provide, i.e. how many faces it will cover. What happened in 2001? In the Official Journal of the SRJ, number 9/2001, means at the beginning of 2001, after a successful democratic transition – how to go out on the street, burn down the Assembly, destroy RTS; how to beat Komrakova, Milanović, steal weapons from a police station in the Street of Mike Jevrosime; how to make as much chaos and break as possible from abroad; now books are published and it is evident that the English spy service planned to launch a civil war in Serbia on October 5th, and fortunately, they failed to do so. Yet some reason prevailed. You see, in all this euphoria, which was practically in early 2001, a Law on Amnesty was also passed, covering crimes in the military area, but amnesty was given to persons who had committed by October 7, 2000, and so it is said which, criminal acts. So, the first law covers the period until 14 December 1995 and the second – the period from 14 December 1995 to 7 October 2000. Now every reasonable observer of what is happening in Serbia and one who has the opportunity to hear what the new democratic power of Serbia's democratic opposition, so-called. DOS, look what she did in the first place. I will remind you -- the first democratically elected SRJ president, the first democratic government of the Republic of Serbia, the first democratically elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the first democratic National Assembly, the first democratic arrest in 2003, where a mafia was to replace the democratic mafia. You know for a fact that in front or behind every word, the word could be put – democratically, in order to show how different it is and how much better it is than what was before. In such conditions, when the sun lighted up, when six and a half billion came out of the country, when it was said: Kosovo and Metohija are being resolved in 15 minutes, there are our friends, not to order everything, it happened that someone did not believe in democratic power, and since 7 October 2000 until today, he has not accepted weapons, he has not responded to a military call and has done something that his legal obligation has done. Now every primitively simple Serb who is characterized by reasonable reasoning asks himself a question: what is wrong if in Serbia something that could be described as light, honey and milk wherever you turn, how it is possible for a young man at 19 years of age to dare and think about not responding to an army call. He won't serve the army. How is that possible? Why doesn't this man support democratic power? Why does it not support democratic sovereignty and territorial integrity? Why doesn't he support democracy? Now those who are full of democracy want to release the criminal responsibilities of the enemies of democracy. Those who have not responded, and now we are going to the field of a new bill, it is about persons suspected of committing the following crimes: refusal to receive and use a weapon, as referred to in Article 202; failure to call and avoid military service, referred to in Article 214; avoidance of military service, incapacitation or deception, as referred to in Article 215. Imagine, in democracy, someone cuts their finger off so they don't join the army, you release him. You're liberating an opponent of democracy. Why? By the way, let me remind you that Boris Tadic went through these lines in front of the embassy during the campaign and said -- it's a scandal, as our people wait this long. He'll do anything to get on the White Schengen list, get them abroad as soon as possible. What did he keep from his promise? Nothing. However, Bogdanovic confessed the other day that he lied during the election campaign, had this apartment, called it people, and he said: it was not good for me to admit it. Tadic also says it was not good to admit it. We recently learned that the Serbian mafia's defence minister, which was supposed to be democratic, was Boris Tadic. In a conversation there, and even in the testimony, he says: don't worry, the new defence ministry will now be our defence minister, representing the Zemun, Surcin and all possible clans, but the democratic mafia. That's it. So someone dared to stand back and refuse arms, not to respond to the army. When democracy is -- no armed conflicts, no problem. The land zone is being held by someone else, a NATO friend controls, shoots from the sky, on all sides, guarantees security, we don't need an army. But how come someone for a year, nine months, six months won't go to the army. Then came Mr. Tadic, who said: you can wash and diapers, you can also go to the theater to act as an army wherever you want, you can go just to register that you served the army. In this scenario of destroying our army that comes from the government's authorities, it was the first one of the defence ministers, this pathologist also, now just to point out what Tadic violated. We have come to the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I must tell you, to draw your attention, the regulations on military service are at the level of the state community. Criminal legislation is at the level of the republic, a Member State of what is called the state community. Now we are asked to pass the law to amnesty, and here they say the percentage is - 2,500 people. But you can see what a broken scenario is, the logistics that prepares public opinion for this is in the SPO. The minister, originating in Osijek, allegedly visited everything, said – our people would be very happy to return here, but have criminal charges or have been brought against them because they did not respond to the democratic army. They went there, started a working relationship, washed all over the cafes, and that's what they can do here. They even find it difficult to collect leaves at the hospital in Kovin, because that possibility exists as a substitute, because it is now going to civilian service of the military and it exists only with us. By definition, there's an objection to conscience, a man wants to serve the army, but he doesn't want to take up arms, so he's peeling potatoes or he's a musician, but he's wearing a uniform. No, there's something else coming up with us. When Tadic was able to invent an adviser for very important issues of an army of men who did not serve the army, then you understand what the fate of our army is. If this bill were to be passed in this assembly, then all of you who vote for this bill would know that you are giving a deadly blow to our army. I can understand that you had hate, so you said you needed to free those who haven't responded since 1995 to serve the army. And then the Wolf called, and they invited women here in black, white, yellow, but it ended in 1995. I can understand that someone got scared in 1999, when an amnesty was performed with the date of October 7, 2000, but how to amnesty someone who doesn't respect democracy today. Please, these people who haven't responded, who have committed four or five crimes, they don't respect democracy. There was no security risk. There was only a risk that they might have food and water problems, but no parent would allow his child, when he went to serve the army, to be in an invisible situation. Every parent helps their child who's in the army. In the principle debate, I gave an idea of how to help the army, to free the taxes of a family whose children are on military service, but you won't do it. You want 2,500 of those who have escaped and can be said for them not to be traitors, traitors of the state, they have betrayed democracy. It's supposed to hurt you. They probably wear 500-euro shoes, too, probably deserve amnesty, because they mimic this one across the street, the one that has a medical worker for a media adviser, the one that has a tycoon of DS that sells seconds. The most expensive thing in Serbia is seconds, but with it, they're much cheaper than on RTS, than when you call some TV. And he stands for the market economy, with his monopoly remaining. By voting for this law, you vote against democracy. The DS will get angry, and you know how DS works, everything they say, it's democracy. If you repeat those words of theirs, it's proof of primitiveism and prosaclysm, which would say this "fecal counsellor". To them is the sweetest of them, and to everyone else is the smell. It's DS. Take care, I'm warning you. The DS is going to attack you because you have freed the criminal responsibilities of those who have destroyed DS and democracy, so you know. If you vote for that law, they'll wash their hands, and they'll say, "Please, we have nothing to do with it, we're a state-run party." Tell me which state the DS built, because all I know is that it broke the SRJ through Javier Solana. And some others are calling for their statehood, and where those countries you've made, you're just destroying states, in a coalition with those from above, those terrorists, etc. Why don't you say Cedomir Jovanovic is an KLA associate? One more thing, that's where you attack with DS, you call them for crime, they call you for crime, and then someone slaps their hands on the table and then they offer each other coalitions. After the election campaign starts, we'll just remind the citizens who's in the coalition with whom and who's what to whom. Please, it may not be legally possible for Aligrudić, but he has all sorts of things that are impossible. This and the next 10 amendments should be adopted in order to block a law like this that destroys a very important institution, which is an army. A state without an army is not a state. All countries cherish their armies, only in Serbia is the military being torn apart. Why, whose interest it is, who does it, he is a traitor, in the broadest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25262	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25263	The SPS believes that this amendment should also be adopted by, I say, a law to disenfranchise, because the essence of this law, according to us, is to destroy the army of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, and for this reason we cannot accept this law. It is not by chance the adoption of this law, because this law, or the bill of this law, is for the purpose of those intrinsics that marked the 1990s and the campaign that was then led against the army, the state of Serbia, against everything that is right in this country. When you see what happened in the '90s, like this campaign that lasted, you'll see that the military as one of the system institutions has fallen to the last place. It's not the result of what's happening in the military around the army, it's not the result, it's not the way of command, it's what the military is doing today, it's the result of the propaganda that was done against the army in the '90s. Namely, there is no need to forget the destruction, the destruction of the former SFRY, a major and significant army has been broken down. Little is known, it is hardly mentioned, and those who know it knowingly forget, that the JNA Army was one of the most powerful and most efficient in the world, was counted among the top five, and it is not mentioned that our country was also among the five world exporters thanks to the sale of weapons. Look, a small country like SFRY, with 22 million people, had such a production of weapons of different species that it was among the five leading countries in the world. And today, this tank, M-84, is a tank that is unrequited in its category by its combat and other characteristics. I'm talking about this because when the SFRY was broken, different methods were used to break up the army, and you know that the JNA lasted while the SFRY lasted. The moment the SFRY ceased to exist, it stopped, of course, JNA. But it's interesting that in a campaign here in Serbia's territory against the army, it was, I say, intended for the role of all these actors in the military and those who contributed to its breaking. So, in the structure of the army, since the army was multinational, members of the order of Croats, Slovenians, Muslims, and it was perfectly normal for them to continue serving military time in their places, as part of the battle formations formed in the then independent states, and for Serbs who remained in Republika Srpska or in Croatia, the name of the occupier was considered. This was not only used by those who broke the SFRY, but, unfortunately, they also used the media here to come up with an army again. In addition to this external factor that has done everything to bring the army to ruin, it must be said that the system established at the level of the SFRY has contributed to the destruction of the army. It's that famous key, as the basic element of the election of leaders in the army, that's the command that was applied in the '90s, unfortunately politics, because when politics gets involved in the military, then the military comes to an end. But it must be said both publicly and loudly that the derogation of the importance and reputation of the military also contributed to the former opposition, and some of them were the authority or authority that was in 2001, so we say, by propaganda and by calling on, you remember, civil disobedience. In the context of civil disobedience, it was not only a avoidance of military service, but also a failure to pay an account, doing all the things that should deprive the state and the functions that the state owns. It must be said that the '90s campaign produced results, with the mistakes made by the military in its work or in its operation, subject to, of course, political decisions, all objectively being something that degraded the importance and role of the army in our premises. Of course, it must also be said that avoiding military service carries in itself the personal relationship of an individual to that legal state obligation. Namely, why people avoid serving the army, the answers can be found in this and that there are problems that the individual owns, and in the family, some unfortunately it is a matter of training, somewhere a matter of education, somewhere a political attitude or some third, fourth, five reasons. They all had the consequences of avoiding military service. Because if there is a constant campaign against the military, with the affirmation of negative examples or pre-named events happening everywhere in the military around the world every day, then you get a negative image and then you ask a legitimate question about whether any of the parents in the Republic of Serbia should allow their son to go to military service and serve the army. Basically, we're going back to where we started, whether that's the ultimate goal these agitators of the disappearance of the army in our country and wanted to achieve. Of course, it must be said that one of the goals of our army is to derogate, as a result of its effectiveness during 78 days and nights of bombing, that aggression against the SRJ, Serbia-Montenegro, 1999. No matter what anyone thinks or says, the unquestionable fact remains that our country has been bombed from the air for 78 days from several thousand metres, from a safe height; that huge amounts of bombs have been used; that the number of planes that overthrew our country's territory was fantastic; that from these safe distances they bombed the entire space of Serbia-Montenegro and, of course, destroyed a lot of things, from buildings, hospitals, schools, roads, infrastructures, many people died. But, regarding the military, it must be acknowledged that our army has shown an extraordinary degree of efficiency for those 78 days and nights. It was the last warning thing that convinced the countries that led the campaign against us and that made Serbia-Montenegro stand alone in the former Yugoslavia's space, that the army should break further. Because when our army was withdrawn under Resolution 1244 of the Kumanovo Agreement, it was seen with what amount, unscathed amount of weapons, that the SCG army was withdrawing from the KIM space to comply with the provisions of the agreement, it was seen how inefficient that aviation was, in connection with the destruction of military potentials. If the military had been able to react, if there were determination in the state, then it would probably have stopped at the end of the KLA terrorist organisation that is now part of the Kosovo Protection Corps. But that was one of the reasons and it's also today one of the reasons why the army, at least the army it was, shouldn't exist anymore. And of course, they resorted later to subtle methods of destroying the army. It has been replaced, in a name of democratic Serbia, by a command shot. Why, only the then military minister knows that, and now the president of Serbia, Mr Tadic and the team around him. Because they replaced all those successful generals who showed their ability during military operations. People who have the only quality have come to their place in completing seminars, courses in the US military or in the colleges of Western countries, perhaps in Brussels, as part of NATO headquarters. They didn't have the opportunity to show up in battle because they weren't in command at the time, and they weren't, because of course they didn't have the quality to be chosen. All those people who led our army in the days of aggression were subject to replacement. And then, of course, there's talk of a new strategy, about a new command staff, about a Partnership for Peace, about NATO, and there's a need to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what the essence of the Partnership for Peace and NATO is. We're not just going to get an umbrella to defend us from others, but we're going to get a boss who's going to deliver his demands every day, and we're going to pay for that, because membership in the Partnership for Peace and NATO is not free, it costs billions and billions of dollars, because it changes everything. Not only does the system of command change, but the system of arms, and then all military potentials must be re-formed, there must be weapons from one centre, this time from the United States and from the EU countries. Everything else is wrong, not because it's not good, but because you have to buy it at the boss's, and it will simply be transferred over the back of Serbian citizens. The adoption of this law is a direct mockery of those values, in fact not of values, but of those messages that were promoted on October 5th, because there is no value there. If it was worth it, there'd be something left. Why would someone avoid military service if it is in democratic Serbia, if everything is great; the system works, institutions exist, the judiciary is doing normal, the production of flowers, the standard of living is up; if we have seven billion dollars and we live as a "breed in fat"; if serving a military deadline is just one trip that lasts a few months and without any more serious training? If everything is ideal, idyllic, as claimed to be, why did these people refuse a military call or resort to other ways of avoiding a military deadline? Article 1 of this Act refers to the avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception, arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army. Do you really think these people deserve to be amnested by the obligation to serve the military? It would be logical, if it were a new society, that they were running away to serve the military, because they probably believe in an army they called democratic forces after October 5th promoted. Of course, none of that. Since October 5th, the same forces that led the campaign against the army in the 1990s have now resorted to exact commitments to further destroy the army. That's why it's always said that our country shouldn't have an army, you keep mentioning different strategies, within strategies of different figures. Those who formally have a calling and those who have no title or knowledge of the army talk about it and offer different recipes as the army should look. The background says we don't need an army anymore. Why do we need an army? We have no one to defend ourselves from. When you look around, none of the neighbouring countries have given up their goals of creating major national states. That is not Bulgaria either, for Albania we know that things are standing, Croats also have certain aspirations. So we have no one to defend ourselves from, but we will be defended by NATO. Those who bombed us for 78 days and nights will defend us from their servants. This is the essence of the military's relationship with Serbia's premises these years. All that valuable, traditional, honest, patriotic, all the patriotic that existed in Serbia centuries ago, has been destroyed or nearly destroyed in the past few years, thanks to, I must say, a treasonous policy headed towards the military. (President: You're out of time. ) Part of this incorrect relationship with the military is the adoption of laws like this that will free those who flee, avoid the army, incapacitate themselves, serve deceptions, to be amnesty. It also sends a message to those normal families and young people, normal in a patriotic sense, who consider their honorary obligation to serve the military term, as it also helps the country's struggles and preserves its territorial integrity. Then a message is sent to them that it's not worth it and that they should act differently. Until we establish a system of values, as a state, we can't count on us to have stability or to be valued. If we don't appreciate ourselves, it's hard for others to appreciate us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25264	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, has notified that he accepts this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Živojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to suggest, after visiting a barracks in Belgrade yesterday, that you withdraw this law. By accepting the amendment to Pera Cvetkovic, it is only legal-technical grooming. I think the law in general needs to be withdrawn, because otherwise you'll be in the circle of those who are former Yugoslavia's army, now the SCG's army has been collapsing for the past 20 years. It was the destruction of this army that began from the moment the principle of representation of all peoples and peoples was introduced in the military and presented them through military circles. I remember the good mobilization of the '90s, when the entire brigade dropped weapons in the Tito barracks in Pristina. I was invited there as a political activist to calm people down from that neighborhood. They said, "How long will only we from southern Serbia go to exercises, the same people?" To them, the commander was a member of the people, who later served as general, the leader of the BiH Army, a colonel for the Macedonian MPV, who then left the army immediately and went to the Macedonian Army, and at the Fifth Administration of the then-JNA. From southern Serbia, they are only mobilized to bakeries, chefs, pedestrians, possible ties and border guards. There wasn't one of those special forces. A couple of guys who were special forces, accountants, drivers, etc., who had motor vehicles, had to go to all the mobilizations. That's why these guys deserted because they couldn't fill the units from our neighborhoods. Afterwards, during the mobilization of 1999, it was the very group that then broke up Serbia's defence force that rebelled, urged the people not to go to the military, that the army is ideological, that they are at war for the borders of the state of Slobodan Milosevic. That is why there was a demonstration in many cities at the time – in Leskovec, Kruševec, Vranja, Nis. Unfortunately, we've always belonged to this Third Army that's had problems in Kosovo and Metohija for the last 15 years, and at the same time, because of these ways the military recruited, we've filled the units in the space where it was so-called. aggression on Croatia. It's exactly the same ones who asked them not to respond to the mobilization, that those who responded to the mobilization leave the unit, when they could not destroy the army through their then minister, and now Serbian President Tadic is trying to force you, through ministers from this government, by adopting this law, to hit a "glog stake" in the military. I visited a barracks yesterday. I have the right to speak of it because my son is in the army. I wonder if this afternoon, during this break, between three and four, I ask these boys to leave the army until this law is in force, because no one can pursue them. After the entry into force, there will be no more amnesty for them. Because of 2,500 guys who didn't accept military service or in some way refused, you're passing a law that you amnesty these crimes. These crimes have their own special weight, because it is precisely about preventing the defence power of the country. It's previously qualified as a serious crime. A team before, you need to pull this law out of the process. Civil service allowed. That's what makes us ugly young boys, capable of learning how to defend the country, the people, and ourselves tomorrow. We put them in such an underestimating position, supposedly they don't want to carry guns, no, they want to be more free. We made them plumbers, nurses, they carry geese in hospitals. Is that an example of a Serb young man and a Serb soldier? It was a shame before when someone couldn't join the army, he was hiding. Today it's just those guys who want to join the army, they're hiding, hiding from those who don't want to. Today you no longer have that joy, joy in one family, in a populated place when a soldier goes to the army. Today they're going into the army, because it's these guys who are serving the army today and who are getting ready tomorrow that they feel like second-class citizens. I just had a chance to see in the barracks of Banjica yesterday, visiting the SNO unit where my son serves his army. They're asking if they're second-class citizens. They won't leave this army, but it's inappropriate to pass a law like this. You're passing the law because of changed social circumstances. What social circumstances? There's an increasing threat to the collapse of the country, to take away the territory. What has changed the social environment that requires the military to either shrink or not to serve? If after this, because of these 2,500 people, after the day of adoption of the law, if it's Monday or Tuesday, 3,500 boys don't leave, some new law will have to be passed again. But the army no longer exists. When we went into the army, on the day of the oath, there was a ceremony, thousands of soldiers in the machine. Today, Mr. Minister, there were 25 soldiers on the oath in that barracks. Is that an army? Can he defend himself, the people and the state? Can they be ready, at the end of the line, as boys trained to defend themselves? I believe that this is legitimate, or whatever you say -- a legal way, is saved by those who need to stay away from the military or, as you say, do not release themselves from military service. It's just not true. Many, after this, will lose the time to call to the army, after a certain period of years you cannot be invited to serve the military term. If it's about athletes, it's a shame that athletes are looking for a delay in the military deadline. It used to be an honor and pride for a sportsman to join the army. They were the most esteemed guys in all units. All the representatives went to the army, many, who have given a lot more for this country, as far as sports and sports activities are concerned. Is that why they shouldn't serve the army? Or, those who escaped were said to have fled because of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, so I don't know someone else, the third regime, so now after 7 October 2000, from which regime did they escape? These are guys who will never serve the army and who should be held accountable and answer. If you look up to that kind of America, they remember the old one here, even the younger one, how it went that he didn't go to the army in Vietnam, Cassius Clay, on several occasions world boxing champion. How'd he go? How did other athletes who did not serve the U.S. Army go? We are now taking the lead because of some Giants, Stojakovic. This tycoon will now buy News, and before that, he wants to buy "Knjiz Milos," and my son and our sons will have to go to the army. Whether they're patriots or not, we won't mention it, but it was an honor to serve the army. I'm talking about what deserters are gonna take over for those young people. When one of the woodworking units deserted, they called on the then president of the municipality, why doesn't his son join the army and send us all to Kosovo? At the time he was 11, the kid then wanted to join the army, and now that he's got the conditions, he said right away – I'm going to the army and I'm not leaving that army. These young men should be the leader of this growing young generation, not someone who will earn better money in the West because there are better conditions, or because he's some kind of athlete, that he doesn't have to go to the army. If we are advocating the equality of all, then we should all be equal before the law and before God. This law just promotes that certain groups of insubordination can unpunishely do what they do. These aren't ordinary crimes, traf theft, light intoxicating drugs, street fights, these are serious crimes. If this law is passed, believe me, we may meet somewhere in a place, there will be no more armies, but it will be written that this congregation council council and you, as minister, have passed a law that has amnested those who have committed crimes and given moral rights to all others not to go into the army anymore. Now the question is, who is it that goes voluntarily into the army, if no one calls him into the army, who simply wants to be there for six months; lie down, crawl, get up, fold, fold, etc.; support the command, who will go? These young men feel like second-class youths, worthless, the state doesn't accept them, doesn't value them, doesn't give them recognition. The confession of those boys who are now in the army and who will go to the army tomorrow is exactly that, that punishment is being imposed on those who avoid it on purpose. I can tell you, even for ideological reasons, because those who allegedly don't want to go to the army support some so-called. a democratic option or some other option that just, listening to these world powers, wants our army to bring down to 14,000 soldiers. Such an army, and you served an army, I served an army, can't defend one populated village, one village, not to mention the state border. Leave the border to the police, you'll see what the results will be with the police relations. Our border will be fleeting so that everyone can enter, come out, lips, provide what they need with the counterintelligence services of some armies that they plan on dispersing this country. I've just been telling you from experience, I've been a soldier, I'm a soldier's father, pull this law, let all young and capable men join the army. It is an obligation in all countries; even those countries that have an army, as you say -- professionally, have a way of training people for situations that no one wants, because no one wants their son to go to war, train himself to preserve family, self and state in such global world processes and riots.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25266	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25267	For the truth, I'd say one piece of information. This law does not apply to the Government of the Diva. He's been suspended, he's out of his league, he's out of his league, he's out of his league, there's no crime. It's purely informative, the truth works. The second thing, we saw here, two amnesties were brought, both after the war, for the same acts carried out in war. They're qualified forms. Then certain reasons were accepted for doing so. Now it's a peacetime situation, it's a mild situation, there's no qualified form.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25268	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25269	This law is a picture and an opportunity of what some call a new democratic power. They told us that our children would no longer fuck from the merciless to the unloved, no longer go into the white world, no more to be afraid of. Democracy has arrived, no more conflict anywhere. With no more conflict, there is nothing left, I realized that representatives of the new democratic authorities would yet little more condemn Nikola Pasic, who is responsible for a third of the Serbian Serb population, as well as everyone from World War II, who participated in it, especially those who led the Ustashas to slaughter, that they would condemn and the leader of Karadjordje, imagine someone to raise a grudge against the spirits and raise up the uprisings around Serbia, and therefore the Serbs would pay a high price. Imagine all those who were raising Timoko's rebellion or I don't know what, none of these people are normal to the representatives of what these "yellows" are doing here in the hall for the big Democrats. Then they told us for a decade, and perhaps longer -- what, we don't need anything, and they seem to be able to bring our army almost to the end. The process began when Boris Tadic was appointed as head of this army, continues with Davinic, and here I think the only one who could, according to his disastrous moves on our country, compare with Tadic is Zoran Stankovic. That's the attitude of the entire country to our army. Now I ask you what Mr. Krasic has noticed very precisely, what is this about? What were these people getting away from? Of what, if everything was in order and Boris Tadic invited them into the army? They were not invited by one of us, as you say, by war-wrecks, such and such, were called to the military by Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. They did not respond to the invitation of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. These are the people who thought you were leading them in a bad way, they didn't want to serve the army in your regime, because they count on you not to be able to lead the country or the army in a good and successful way. What kind of message are you sending here? You're sending a message - the military doesn't matter to us, the state doesn't matter to us, nothing matters to us, it's only important to someone who ordered us to do a certain task. Absolutely nothing else. What message did we send to all the people in our country when he was released to Beki Mazrek, Fjore Brovin and the others, when the amnesty was performed? Is that the Mazreka who said he raped a 13-year-old Serbian girl? Is that the one? That was the one. The one in Klecka when he was caught, he spoke, and I'll remind you that some domestic media at the time said it – it was staged, it's not serious evidence, Serbs were not killed there, as now there is no serious evidence of what happened in Slovenia, because today the state is silent. Did one of you send a single statement that he was going to say? I saw Minister Stojkovic's statement. I'm reading everything on the agencies that shows up yesterday at 14.08. Right, Minister? Your statement has appeared at the agency, which was not bad for Slovenia. You're all quiet in the country. When Serbs kill, it is welcome; says that Nikiforov of The Hague tribunal -- so it is a small crime for the UN tribunal to talk about it. When they showed them a picture of four Muslims killing, it was the most terrible crime in the world. It is a terrible crime, but this is a terrible crime, too. Same as this one, no difference, but it's not a crime, because Serbian blood is less valuable because Serbs have lower blood levels. I guess less red blood cells or I don't know what it is, I don't know. I guess I guess I guess. Is that the point? Is that a question of this law? Is that what it is? How many rows will I give you now, but vote for me, so that they may no longer be ranks? Why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia? I'm listening on the B92 show last night, it's said -- the time people were running from the country. Why don't you give the data to the citizens of Serbia, Mr Stojkovic? Now I'm going to announce them. Each year, geometric progression increases the number of young and educated people fleeing the country; in 2003, three times as many people left the country as in the war of 1999. If someone didn't tell me right now, from people who are watching, who think I'm making it up -- see it, beat it or don't know what, no, this is official data, let Minister Stojkovic come out and deny me or anyone else. You know, since 2000, people have been running out of the country because they've been waiting, told that there will be prosperity, there will be honey and milk. Instead of being well-behaved, they're out of a job. Our best workers kill each other. The woman in Milanovac committed suicide and received the award as the best and most valuable worker. Why? Because she got fired. For the best and the most valuable workers, there's no room? And who's he got it for? For the largest tycoons in Serbia – for Gilas, Hamovic and others. It's for them. For the best and the most valuable workers there is. Who will answer in this country? Why do people respond? They won't answer for this crime, and now you've made it clear to them that there will never be anyone responsible for this crime in life. Why don't we cut it? Not one, but four, five. How much, Krassic? From the same group of criminal acts. Let's get this over with. That there are only those crimes that you like. I think people today in Serbia clearly see the intention of state authorities to disappear. I ask you today, since the only accusation we listen to every day and in a very rude way is placed by anti-Serbian media in our Serbia, which is – imagine, we will answer to someone if they take our territory. No, we're going to declare a year of joy, all with this "balonjay" that we're going to jump out of luck in the Republic Square. He went "balonji" out. Is that a solution? If that's the solution, schedule the time right now, so with balloons, we can all gather together and look forward to losing Kosovo and Metohija or Montenegro, or I don't know what. We can't take part in that. And it's hardly going to work to separate Montenegro, so I have to make my own personal impression. Last night, Predrag Bulatovic ran over Milo Djukanovic, and for the first time since I knew him, he has shown that he is ready to fight to the end and go to all or nothing. Separatists will not go as easily in Montenegro as they thought and imagined. Anyway, is our message to these people that these countries are gone? I think it's a very bad message, I don't think we should go in front of Serbian citizens. Think about this. I don't know whose condition this is. I don't know if you think you're going to get something that you're going to grant these to two and a half thousand people. Maybe. Maybe you're counting, that's -- that's our election card, you're going to vote for us. Maybe Becky Mazrek will vote for you, too. You let him go. A man raped Serbs, you hired him, you killed him, you let him go free, you freed you from prosecution. Maybe he'll vote for you, too. Guys, think about whether or not we're going to have a country. I have not yet received an answer, and for days I will repeat it as "Cathon Two" for Cartagena – who has allowed and who has made the discharge from the work of Jove Joga's wife and daughter. That's my question I haven't got an answer to yet. Is there anyone in this country to answer that or is she just fired? Is there anyone who does that in this country? Serbia has a difficult time ahead and will be a great burden, not only on the MPs, but on all citizens. In the meantime, these laws don't achieve anything, laws like this, and relations like this, and according to our army and our people, you show that you don't care about them and invite them not to go into the army anymore. After a previous debate on the Law of Amnesty, I came home and asked my son, he watched a congregation transfer, and he said, "How is this going to the army, what is it going to do?" The kid's still a kid; I can't imagine, when I talk to him, that I won't wait for the day, because you're going to shut it down, so no one alive will be able to restore it, that I won't be able to send my son into the army, in the way that all people do it in this country and in which they've done it for decades, with the greatest pride and the greatest happiness. The way you're going, I'm afraid that's how it's going to be. Once again, will someone please explain to us why Lieutenant Colonel Milisav Pancic, a man of one, a true soldier, retired? Is it just because he showed up for the release of Slobodan Milosevic? I don't want to believe that. I don't want to believe that any family leaves without bread, just because they're his political opponent. Once again, I call on this villain and criminal, Zoran Stankovic, to catch together, on the one hand, Vuk Draskovic, and on the other hand Boris Tadic, because they are great heroes and great heroes. Let them get together with Bekim Mazreku and the rest of their friends and take a little walk, let's say the end of Vuk Draskovic – Hercegovina, would have gone well. Either at the end of Zoran Stankovic – Vladic's Han, or at the end of Boris Tadic – Montenegro. We'd have had a great time. You could go to your mother's home, Semberia, you don't know where better to go. But not to walk with 5,000 bodyguards and rotational lights, but to go to their own people. We're gonna have a lot more problems, a lot of trouble. That's why I'm asking you to withdraw this law. He's very stupid, he's very unnecessary, no matter how incorrect the language sounds. I also call on SPS representatives not to be in the O.R. when this bill is passed. Because if you're in the O.R., even if you vote against, you'll actually vote on it. It's a good law. Well, if it's a good law, then vote it. What can I tell you? If it's a good law, then vote it. But it's good for Serbian citizens to hear it and know it. You can also say from the pay phone that it's a good law. That's not what I heard earlier. In any case, Minister Stojkovic, you would do well to tell us what your plan is with the military, why you support and why you chose Zoran Stankovic, he personally came to Vojislav Kostunica to get a warrant for what to do. Now I'm asking, what's he doing and is he still doing everything he does and firing people from work, harassing people, turning into a pit bull who's gonna chase down holes and looking for someone, is that his job? Or is it his job that our army has better weapons, better equipment, that our soldiers have better and more to eat, officers to have higher salaries and higher incomes and soldiers so that they can be proud and proud of what belongs to our army, the army of Serbia-Montenegro. Since we see what it looks like and how it deliberately undermines the reputation of the army, but no matter how much you bring it down, there is something you can't do, which is love for freedom and for the state that exists both in the Serbian people and in the people of all the other citizens of this country. They cultivate love for their army to protect their borders, their land. Therefore, since you have destroyed it, we will create a normal, real and true army to help our people and who will be able to protect it from all pressures and attacks.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25271	Thank you, Mr. President, I want that to happen as soon as possible. I know you will welcome this with pride and great enthusiasm, as will all other citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25272	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Peric, about this amendment, your parliamentary group has two minutes. Here you go. (Frislav Peric, from the post: The SPS is mentioned and whether it will vote or not. No, no, no, Thank you. What? Of course, the president or vice president or the authorised representative on this agenda will respond to that. Unfortunately, I don't know how to let you, unless you think your personal dignity has been hurt. Time, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have been on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, we have had more contact with the diaspora, there are several MPs on this committee, I just want to pass it on, because I have listened to the subject on the board, as well as the minister of diaspora, which presented the different reasons why this law is being adopted and why it should be adopted, in practice, on the Committee, a majority of votes have been decided that the law should be adopted. The minister, among other things, said that we had to do something for our diaspora, because everyone who stays and comes to us is asking for this law to be passed. They justify that their children, there are various ways, some children aren't even born here, should be allowed to come to the country for holidays, to keep in touch with the queen, etc. It may not be the best solution to chase them and not come to the country of Serbia, although we have four million people in dispersion, or half of Serbia in the world, although we do not have a good relationship with them. The question is who we're gonna do it with and how do we do it? Maybe we need to find a solution, there's been a speech about the army being organised in another way, because this is how it's organized and not an army. We don't have an army, if soldiers come home every week for the weekend, because elders make them go home because they don't have to offer them food for the weekend, so they cut food, etc. So, we don't, and it's safe to have an army, because it's hungry and weak, it can be as numbered as you want, and all our kids from abroad can come, it won't be much more than that. Maybe we should go to the professional army, for those who want to do this job professionally, and for those who work abroad to pay for it. There are examples like that in the world. Also, it has been said that this is not abolished according to our diaspora, and there are 2,000 cases to which it applies, they are not abolished that they are not serving a military deadline, but only criminal charges, that they can come to the country and the procedures are to apply, etc., so that they can serve their military time. The big question is whether there are now 2,000 criminal charges, whether children in various countries in the environment should be banned from coming to the country for 1 May and Easter holidays and seeing their relatives, making better contact, etc. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25274	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25275	And leave some money in the country. Here, I'm done. We need to find a solution to co-operate with Serbs outside Serbia better and stronger, because this is how things are, we no longer have any friends in the world, although they promised – just to get off the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, everyone will help us and they will all be friends. Today we realize that after six years we don't have any friends in the world, and here in these situations, no one will help us and no one will defend us. We went to Europe, and we lost those friends we had. I'm afraid we won't lose, since we've lost all our friends, well, they're not Serbs, so let's not lose the Serbs from our diaspora, at least let them be with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25276	Thank you for further explaining this amendment. Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Mr. Vukic, since this has been an exhibition on the amendment, please, Mr. Cevrovic, just a moment, I see everything, no problem, just to make it clear to us all, please, let me respect the dignity of the institution, just to explain to the MPs. Therefore, it is only possible to give the replica if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation. The MP to whom the exposure relates shall have the right to replication. Here's the word, I suppose, calling on the Rules of Procedure for you to be misread, did I understand you correctly, Mr. Wolfie, as misread. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, not as a violation, but as a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25277	You don't have to, Mr. President, belittle us, we know that when you look for a replica and when you're looking for a Rules of Procedure, we're not children to read to us every time. Anyway, I came out for an important thing. I'm glad we heard this. I'm surprised to hear what I heard. Not bad we heard that Vojislav Vukcevic's main argument was the minister who otherwise encouraged anti-Serbian hysteria during the conflict in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the minister who played the grandmother with all his scarfs and broke into the National Assembly to disperse the soldiers. If you remember, this is the famous Komnenic and his incursion into the National Assembly, when they played mothers and grandmothers, asking for their children back. It's good that you support them. It's good that you're okay with that. It'll probably surprise your constituents, but that's already your problem, not mine. As far as people are concerned, and as far as the army is concerned, we still have an army that helps the people as much as it can. She only has criminal leadership, the Secretary of Defense. The real criminal is Zoran Stankovic and you've got as much as you want, because the criminal is the one who fires members of the families of people who are not guilty of anything, and he'll answer for it. So, they'll be responsible for destroying the army, take as much of it as you want... (Velimir Simonovic, from the scene: What are you looking at me for, man, did I say something? I'm also wondering what I'm looking at. One more thing about the army, you say, five days in the army, so it's not two days, 'cause they're coming home. When I was in the army, I first came home after nine months. I wasn't exactly the best soldier, so they wouldn't let me go on those awards leave and on those miracles, yes, I was undisciplined, it's not controversial, I admit it, but I did all 12 months doing it right. They let me go for the first time in nine months, for May 1st to come home, but I served an honest army. Let me ask you something, these men are serving five days in the army, five days at home, and we are now going to reward those who didn't want to join the army for one day. One more thing to tell you, look at the difference today, we have a tragedy, an elemental accident that has hit Serbia. Who's in charge of preventing floods, who works most? Our soldiers are working most today and I am taking the opportunity, if you can be patient, therefore, to thank especially the soldiers of Jacob, both the RVO and the PVO and the engineers and all the others who help the citizens of Zemun who have crucified the tents; who have placed those most endangered on the Beef ship; to all of the New Sad Corps that you have scattered, I no longer know what it is called, who do so in Vojvodina and are really engaged in the best possible way. When you're looking for volunteers, from those who are at the theater, Green, some other places, few who will answer or no one. These people will answer and come to help the citizens and the people. You know, the army was always the most important thing when such things happen and the most work is done, and this is how you say: we love those who won't help our people. We support and encourage those who will not participate in anything when it is necessary to support our people, because it is best not to help people and then come and say: I have to go back, we have to maintain relationships. What a bond to maintain, if you don't love your country and your country's army, to do something for your country, it's hard for you to go and serve a military term, a year, six months. It's hard for you to sacrifice, and you know you're in a democratic state where you're not going to do anything special, the hardest effort will be to help some people who are threatened by floods, fires, etc. It's the greatest effort since, for anyone, anything to happen, we'll say we don't have an army, we can't do anything. Yes, God forbid, the Shiptari are going to attack us, and we will say, "Please don't, if you need a Kragujevac, here's whatever you want." They'll give everything, because someone's going to say -- now you'd like to fight the Shipar, not give Kragujevac, Kragujevac is an old Albanian city, it's democracy, it'd tell us both B92, and Pink and RTS, they'd all be filling our heads. One who would say: you can't really take Kragujevac from us, there's the war-scraper Natasha Jovanovic, she would say – we can't put Kragujevac in the hands of the Kosovo-metohic Albanians. Well, it is war-scrapers, you radicals. Since that's the case, I don't understand why you let them go and what this is about, because they don't respect a democratic army, an army they know won't fight, they know they don't need a gun, and now it's hard for them to get up at 6:00 a.m. for six months. If that's their biggest problem, we should release those who have a hard time getting up at 6:00 a.m., five days a week. I really can't understand either the National Assembly, or the parliamentary majority, or the government of Serbia, or the ministers, or anyone else. I repeat once again, since I have seen some moaning about what is true, the great criminal is Zoran Stankovic, the defence minister, and this criminal will hardly answer to the competent state authorities for all crimes he has committed against the good, honest and honest people in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25278	On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP... Excuse me, please. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, and I ask that the dignity of such a tall home be respected. If you want to bring down a certain institution more, then the worst things you're going to say about it yourself, even though you're sitting in it. If you want to bring down another institution, then you'll also have the worst possible things to say about it, even though they don't stand. It's really not appropriate for someone to say something like that; not that it's not appropriate, but that it's degutant to listen to something like that, to say such a qualification for a man who's a minister of defense. A man, in accordance with his abilities, does certain things at the Department of Defense to the extent that he is in his power. It is clear to all of us that our country is in need of a professional army and do not just unargumentedly refer to a court in two words about a man who does not stand for him. I think we all have to be polite and take care of, especially in this home, what we're talking about without proof. Everyone is a person and here persons must first of all protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25280	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Aleksandar Vucic, Mr Cetrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I warn everyone, this is the National Assembly, and please, because I have reason to believe that you are all ready to help this congregation do its job. The assembly of the state community, whose minister is mentioned, whose jurisdiction has been mentioned, as you know, 300 meters away and I ask you to keep an eye on keeping order at this session, to respect the institutions. I'm joining the thanks of our soldiers, the officers and officers who are doing their job right now, so we can continue doing our job. According to Article 85, item 1, after an hour, the break will first have the word Mr. Vukic, then Mr. Cetrovic. Thank you all for understanding. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, depending on the speed of work, since the decision is made before 4:00 p.m., in relation to the discussion, I tend to limit the length of work of the point being searched in particular to 20.00 p.m. This isn't a decision yet. It's just that we'll all see together what kind of situation we're in and how fast we can work. Thank you. We can keep working. Once again, good afternoon, we continue the afternoon session. At the end of the afternoon session, Mr Aleksandar Vukic appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what the big problem was, why it had to take a break, except that the ballooner lost his temper again, but it's nothing unusual. So, what I said about Minister Stankovic, Boris Tadic, Vuk Draskovic and everyone else, I think the same thing, no word would change, except I might have something to add. So he who is able to arrest someone's children and forces those children to betray their father; he who is able to fire someone's daughter, someone's wife because he's friends with someone he doesn't love; he who is able to fire a good, capable and honorable officer just because he may be his insatiable, doesn't deserve a different name. I don't think he killed anyone himself, he's morally killing Serbia. That's why he's a criminal and there's no match for him. Is there another word, Veronica, that I forgot something and that I should repeat it to them? The villain is too mild when it comes to it. The fact that he's a villain, that's what they know, so it's understood. Only to remind them that they were also defending Davinic at the same time when we attacked him, so I expect the same fate to happen to Stankovic soon. So he's not smiling at anything good. I expect that they will repeat themselves here and say, yes, we have to do so and so, and I don't even know what it is. Of course, Serbia needs normal relations, but we need people to be in power, those people who don't want to arrest and harass someone's families just because their political opponents don't let, in a political sense, act the way they want to. Right away, I didn't know how to figure it out, I came to the office and on a phone almost nobody calls, after being singled out, the secretary in my office doesn't answer, a man picks up and says, "Defence management needs this and that." Of course, I ordered, Mr. President, that administration, I don't know what it's for and what it's for, everything I've told you and the citizens of Serbia from this pay phone, that they know that in the administration. There's no big philosophy here. Either he's got someone who wants to protect his country or someone who's gonna destroy it and tear it apart. I haven't talked about it yet, about how the state is destroyed, how they're trying to destroy all its institutions. It's not a criticism of that institution of its destruction. Its destruction is the behavior of the leaders of these institutions. We don't destroy the institution of the President of the Republic when his chief advisor says, "I'm going to cross the street, so I'm going to stick it in a biological substance to dissipate the MPs." (President: Please do not throw away, and be kind and complete the exposure. He thus destroys the institution on which he heads, as he destroys it. I haven't heard that for an hour before Carla del Ponte came to his office standing still in the cabinet, expecting to hear the plunger of her steps. I am told by people employed by the Federal Defence Ministry, they say – when Carla del Ponte comes, a nervous walk takes an hour and a half to an hour before her arrival, and almost in a position is calmly standing for an hour from her entry into the building. I don't need to tell you anything anymore. Serbian citizens have understood everything. So criminal and villain Zoran Stankovic will be responsible for his crimes against Serbian people, Serbian citizens, families, even innocent indictees, against families of people who are guilty just because they are someone's family. He'll have to answer for that. I may be someone who is wrong, perhaps not guilty, but it will be established by the competent services and the competent state authorities when freedom wins Serbia, and that day is getting closer and closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25283	I'm sorry, Mr. Cevrovich, but you called first thing in the morning, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25284	Dear People's MPs, I report to the Rules of Procedure, as chairman of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. Since it was said here that the Committee was considering the Amnesty Act – the Committee did not consider the bill because it was not competent to consider it. There was an initiative from the minister of diaspora Vuckovic to push through the committee a bill on amnesty and, in fact, that committee was behind the bill. Since I am an expert lawyer, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, the responsibility of the ministries, I insisted on the Committee to refer the initiative to the committee responsible and to the competent ministry to discuss this initiative, to possibly make a draft or draft law and that the committee responsible, i.e. the competent ministry, be the legislators of this law. At one session of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, there were many more MPs than members of the Committee, as there are 25 members, MPs, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. After the initiative of Minister Vukkovic, a debate was launched, not on the agenda, that an initiative for the adoption of the Amnesty Act was reportedly discussed. At that session of the Committee was also the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Aligrudic, who is not here today. He accepted that the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia is not in charge and as chairman of the Legislative Committee to speak with Minister Stojkovic and the National Assembly president about the proposal, or the first draft, after the bill. That's true. I have to tell that truth so there won't be any delusions here. The military minister, Stankovic, probably here with the bill's proposings wants to destroy the Serbian army, sold 200 tanks for waste. The tanks were exported and sold to a company in Germany. Imagine how much money – for 600,000 euros, which is a quarter of a tank. Not to mention what situation the Serbia-Montenegro Army has brought into, to add -- and Montenegro, given who serves the military in the present time. What's the status of the air force? There's a military airport around the Kings. You have disgraced yourself and are still trying to humiliate all members of the Serbian Army or the army of this people, especially the pilots. What situation have you put the pilots in the army? They can't get on a plane for an hour. (President: please finish. Here, I'll finish. I will not present other information, what is the intention and what it wants to bring down the army of Serbia or the army of this people, how many divisions should be, and how many divisions the Shiparis in Kosovo and Metohija already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25285	Thank you, Mr. Four. Mr. Perry, please wait, let me say something that people have forgotten about this afternoon's discussion. Of course, I confirm what Mr. Cevrovic said, he is not in charge, and he does not appear here as competent, the Diaspora Committee. Also, no one claimed it, Mr. Cetrovic, but Mr. Peric, explaining his position on the amendment that Prime Minister Stojkovic accepted, explained all the arguments he heard from the committee's diaspora minister. That was the only information. Allow, when an MP explains his position on why he supports or does not support an amendment, he uses arguments that suit him, if he does not insult anyone. In no way has anyone claimed that the Diaspora Committee is in charge of this law. You have the opinion of the board of directors in front of you, and here you have the department of command. This is Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic. I don't understand why anyone might think it was someone else. Here you go, Mr. Peric, because you're mentioned yourself. Mr. Peric was mentioned personally that he did not present the correct information. Mr. Perry, tell me why you're looking for a replica. There's no reason for me to say that on your behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25286	It's true that on two occasions on the Diaspora Committee we talked about this law, we even had a text. The fact that you, Mr. Cevrovic, are afraid to say that we talked about it, say, yes, there was a conversation, so we found the form that it's not legal to go ahead of this committee, but the same text of the other committee will do a little agree and propose to the Assembly. That's true. No one was against it when the minister explained on the Diaspora Committee, and none of the MPs spoke negatively about this issue. The second question is whether he was supposed to propose this or that ministry. The initiative came from the diaspora, because that's what people from abroad were looking for when they came to meetings with our people. That's their first request. That's true. Secondly, when you used to say what the Socialists were going to do earlier, it looks like you're just on duty watching where they're going and what they're going to vote for, etc. Take care, you vote whatever you want. You're saying we have a small number of MPs, the water always comes back to run where it ran; we had 190 MPs, and you had none, so we made the Rakovica Seselj mandate, that you had one MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25287	A personal replica of your exposure, please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it wasn't funny, it would be sad, but it's a good thing I found out that you, Mr. Peric, were making Mr. Seselj, that's all. What can I tell you, it's a miracle, and as far as intellectual abilities are concerned, everything else. That's what Serbian citizens see well. I have to tell you, we hear you're against this law. We invite you not to vote, not to enter the O.R., as well as the Rehabilitation Act. You will vote for one and the other to pass their laws. Yes, tell the people that you will support those who sit down for a minute of silence from your President Milosevic. I'm not worried, but it's good that the citizens know that. I don't want to pay any more attention to that. As to whether it's diaspora or not, this has nothing to do with diaspora. No one mentions diaspora in any member of the law. No one mentions any Serbs outside Serbia. It's just that military fugitives are free of sanctions and prosecution at the time of the democratic government. That's how I understood it and that's what the law says. I don't know what you read. I don't know what you were talking about and discussing, but I hope you talked about the law, not the pictures, because in law nobody mentions Serbs, it doesn't say anything -- a Serb. Is there a Serbian in law somewhere? Is it written somewhere by a Serb outside Serbia? Is he writing diaspora somewhere? It doesn't say anything. What nonsense are you talking about here? The phone's here so you don't mess with radicals anymore. And what little you have, you will lose. Time's running out, anyway. I haven't run out of time. I have something else to say, which I'm going to insist on, which is far more important to me than this. You are neither a subject nor a target to me, nor an important thing to me is whatever you say, but it's important that we remember what you said about the Seselj Army. You should be ashamed and ashamed of it, especially where the man is today. You should be ashamed and ashamed of the citizens who chose you. On the other hand, I want to insist, seeing as there are some state union ministers in our country, I don't mind when some MPs stand for it from here, their idea is such, which advocates the separation of Montenegro, openly, openly. I am surprised and amazed by today's statement by Rasim Ljajic. We are with the party Rasim Ljajic in the coalition in Novi Pazar, we have condemned the government's decision as illegal and we find it wrong, because it will lead to conflict and within Muslim lives, and then it can be spilled against Serbian living in Pazar. However, there should be no conflict in Pazar, but a statement by Rasim Ljajic, in which he says – most importantly and most importantly, not to interfere with the referendum process in Montenegro, as some other Belgrade vases have done so to prevent it, and the state community is a blind track. People, you choose the ministers in the state community who are against her. That's what Stankovic is to you, Draskovic, Ljajic. Is there one of the ministers in this country that he's elected to any function that he loves this country, that this country has grown to his heart and will defend this country? Or does everyone have a spare state? If it were attached to Macedonia, this one would if I didn't know what it was, this one would be in a third country. People, do you have ministers who love this country, because those you run for state union should love Serbia and Montenegro. Those in Serbia should love Serbia. I can't understand this. This really isn't normal. No minister has to say it is normal – yes, I love Serbia-Montenegro and I will help survive the state union if the common state is already destroyed. It's legally sophisticated for those who don't know the difference, but it exists. (President: Sixth minute, please finish. I'm done, Mr. Markovic. I urge you, as a man of authority, to invite these ministers, these people, to explain to them that they are receiving wages from this people to protect that state, although they are not honorable enough and have some political projects. Let them resign, let them leave the job, and let them deal somewhere else with politics, and not -- I am very angry, I am angry, so I will leave the Co-ordination Body for southern Serbia today, but it will remain Minister Carla del Ponte to pursue Serbs charged with war crimes. I have a nice ministerial salary, and for Montenegrin news, I'm going to say we don't need a state union, because it's a missed project. Guys, what are we talking about here? I appeal to you, Mr. President, regardless of I am not a child that I do not know that you are not in charge, to influence such ministers, to make them serious and to make it clear to them that with the bodies, institutions and state bodies in Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia they cannot play, because these people here have both eyes and ears and mouth and language and they will know how to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25289	As you know my position, here you go, Mr. Perry. You know that Mr. Peric is going to go out for a pay phone now and since he's reported to the Rules of Procedure, he'll say he's been misread. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25290	If you didn't know everything was going to happen, you wouldn't be president of the assembly. Mr. Wolfie, I wouldn't insult you when you have no arguments, but it's your old practice. It is true that on two occasions we discussed this issue on the Diaspora Committee. It is true that we have concluded that the Justice Department will come out with this law. It's all true. It's also true that you keep mentioning the Socialist Party here at the pay phone, and I said you should take care of your party. What the Socialists are going to do, how much they're going to be rewarded in the election, that's our thing. I didn't mean to offend him in any way, because I highly appreciate him, Mr. Seselj, I was just telling the truth. There are people here, and that's Mr. Angelkovic, Mr. Ivica Dacic, so he'll confirm what I said. You say we have 80 MPs and you have 20. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Who says that? Well, two of them are gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25291	That's not said for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25292	It's true, and that's what the old people say, that where the water ran again will flow and it's true that we had 190 MPs. It's true you didn't have any, so we helped you get one MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25293	I'm asking you to bring this discussion to an end, because it's not correct to call on something that someone said and didn't say. We've established the facts, the facts are clear. There was talk of a bill on the board. That committee is not in charge, and by that board and that ministry the law didn't come here. That's a fact. The second fact is that the number of MPs of different parties has changed, and we all know that. There's no reason not to discuss it. It's nice that you respect each other, but please, there have been no offensive expressions to any party in the Assembly, which has been said at a pay phone in the last half hour, and I ask you to bring this discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25294	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't say any of this. I didn't mention 80 or 20 or 190 or the Socialist Party or anything else. You made it all up, man. You've made up my every word. I only said that you are not ashamed to say that you chose Vojislav Seselj, when the citizens chose him, especially given where the man is today. I'll tell you that a hundred times. Is that an insult to you? Excuse me, please. On the other hand, are you accusing us of stealing two seats? Are you accusing us of this? I'm proud of that, Mr. Peric, that we never took part in the theft. Uhu or no ear, say where it was. We never kidnapped any MPs in neither the Federal nor the Republic Assembly, and I am proud to say that only the SRS did not steal, kidnap the MPs, or that they had crossed into its ranks those chosen on another list or supported it, that is. support her government, etc. Never. You're accusing us of someone stealing what belongs to us from our choices. I don't understand what the problem is. What, are you supporting Branislav Ivkovic and Cedomir Jovanovic? (Frislav Peric, from the place: You say you have 82.) Who, man, did he mention 82? No one talked about it at all. Look at the stenogram, nobody said a single number, what you're talking about, man. I've heard a lot in my life, but this isn't. Never mind. There's something else I want to tell you. Meho Omerovic mentioned you four times, much more than I mentioned in my presentation. Was that right, Mr. Omerovic? (Meho Omerovic, from the place: When? Today, when you asked them not to enter the O.R. Is that right? Why does that bother you? You have a problem that you only notice in Serbian radicals, what to do to you. I have something else to say, which we presented yesterday as news, because here you are talking about Serbian citizens and what is happening in Serbia. People, they sent a signal yesterday, they're accusing me today, they say you speak hard words about ministers. They gave Serbian citizens yesterday the worst slap, Dejan Simic, is that his name, gave him the post of adviser to the governor for banking issues. A man has made progress. He's been punished for justice. Citizens of Serbia, look at the rule of law we have in our country and how things are going to work here. I don't think Serbian citizens need any special comment afterwards. I want to fill out what I just did, about Rasim Ljajic, Stankovic and Draskovic. Do not mind that, apart from politically ideological reasons, there is another thing that is very important, the citizens of Serbia pay 90% of the work of the authorities of the state community for the most part. I ask you, do we pay them to destroy our country or watch over it and protect it? Whether they ask Serbian citizens whether they will continue to destroy it or not. I know they are nervous and Ljajic, and Draskovic, and Stankovic and everyone after last night's convincing victory at the bloc's duel for the state union or the common state, even if it doesn't mean the same thing. I know they're getting more nervous. There's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25295	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25296	I'm done, Mr. Angelkovic. I think they must take care not only of Serbs, but also of Muslims who will tear up and separate the state if they continue to insist on the secession of Montenegro and if they support the separatist and criminal policies of Milo Djukanovic. That's why these people who do their job in this way, dishonestly and irresponsiblely, will have to answer for their actions. This villain, Stankovic, will have to answer because he is the most immoral, because at one point he cheated on all Serbs. I was among them, too. We all thought, I'm bringing the end, I'm sorry I took so long, that he's an honest man, that he's doing his job correctly, and I don't know what, until we know some details we can't tell you about, because there's a secret publication for them, because of The Hague, you understood what it was about. We've established that this is the worst possible man on the globe. And the fact that he's a liar, it's a small thing, it comes as a compliment to him compared to everything that is Zoran Stankovic. It is a man who, I would say, experiences the Serbian people in the same way as Boris Tadic and his advisers and tycoons, which means - in the worst possible way. Everything they've done so far, everything they've done, shows that their only goal is how and how to deal with the families of those people they don't like for some reason. I continue to ask the MPs of the majority, I ask Minister Stojkovic, he was lost somewhere, to explain to me, by which law the daughter of Jove Djoga, the wife of Jova Djog, was fired; according to which law Milisav Pancic was retired; by which law he was brought in the son of General Mladic, to betray his father; friends, brother-in-law, everything possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25297	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25298	I see it's funny for some people, it's time for that to change and for people to run Serbia, for those who will take care of someone's children, not just themselves, and for what Carla del Ponte will tell them when she shows up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25299	Thank you. Otherwise, all those in The Hague treat the Serbian people as some have treated them in the same way, and it is known that those who have betrayed the Serbian people have ended up, so the rest will end. Don't worry about it. Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a change from 11.20 a.m., I'm going to talk about a point on the agenda, so amendments to the Amnesty Bill. My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, submitted an amendment, as the chairman said, to Article 1 and to paragraph 1, where he suggested that the words "of this law" be replaced by the words "Laws on Amendments to the Law on the Military of Yugoslavia", published in the Official Journal of Serbia-Montenegro. We believe that the bill on amnesty that we are discussing today in particular, in our Article 1 and in our first position, which we want to correct through this amendment, is in fact devising the existing Law on the Military of Yugoslavia, published in the Official Journal of Yugoslavia, and recently in the "Official Journals of the SCG", number 7 and number 44, since 2005. Why? The last amendments to the Law on the Army of Yugoslavia, which came into force, to remind you, on 30 October 2005, in Article 2 amending Article 296 of the basic law, are prescribed, quote: "A soldier serving under arms, as well as a soldier who, for religious or other reasons, has been serving without arms in a unit or an army establishment or a defence ministry, six months of service. Under Article 2 of that same law, a recruit who, for religious or other reasons, wants to serve in the civil service is prescribed to have a military term of nine months. Therefore, these amendments to this law cut deadlines for military service from 9 to 6 months, or from 13 to 9 months, for civil service of the military term. This establishes much more favourable conditions for military service. However, laws are made for the legal certainty of citizens, and unfortunately the minister is not present, due to equal treatment, as a confirmation of the seriousness of the state that brings them, they must be respected. It is not good when some other law, which is this proposal that we are discussing today, devises an existing, or existing law. When a new military law is passed, it could also be debated whether or not the period between the current law and the new law should be covered by amnesty. We proposed that amnesty be implemented until the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia-Montenegro, December 2005, which is essentially the same, but it is a much better solution. This law is nothing but a prescribed law from the Republic of Montenegro, but if they adopted something bad in Montenegro, we do not have to act the same way they do now. So, if they're wrong, it's primarily a legal mistake and I don't think the mistake should be repeated by the Serbian Parliament. I appeal, but I do not know what benefits we have, since the minister is not here, to accept this amendment, which the MPs of the "European Serbia" group have submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25301	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25302	This amendment is a good reason to really make it clear that whoever wrote the bill doesn't actually know what the authority's jurisdiction is, and this amendment draws attention to several categories. But what's connected to this bill is that our proposings don't know what military obligation is. Serbia-Montenegro's military commitment is so-called Generally, it is subject to all adult male subjects up to certain years of life from adulthood. What did I answer for? Just to remove the dilemma of what the essence of this bill is. Because if someone had the intention to free themselves of criminal responsibilities because of the failure to fulfil the general military obligation of that category of our citizens born abroad, living abroad, employed there, lost contact with the Republic of Serbia, I felt that this was an initiative of this minister from the SPS, then it should have changed in the Military Service Act, that it was said that our citizens born abroad and living abroad were not subject to military obligations. But you didn't do it. You have proposed a general regulation concerning all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, from 7 October 2000 to the day of today, were suspected of committing a criminal offence or a certain military crime, as regards responding to military service. So whoever proposed the law doesn't know anything. If you wanted 2,500 people from abroad who live there permanently, are born there, and you define them as diaspora, then change the Military Obligation Act, not to be subject to military service obligations. But you didn't choose that path. I must tell you, if you had chosen that path, you would have been taken to that address – Nikola Pasic No. 13. You didn't have the courage to do that, and then eventually you went to some amnesty or an amendment to that military obligation law, and in transitional and final provisions to say that you don't subject to the criminal responsibility of that category of people who lost their military obligation after the new amendments to that law, but you won't, you want to fight, you chose the way to conflict. That way, since you chose this time, the reason for 2,500 people from the diaspora is essentially the reason that you want to save the criminal responsibilities of those who are against democracy. You see, now that I'm seeing it, I'm going back to what I said earlier, the diaspora minister was possibly an excuse, his story of an excuse to put the public to sleep, and the essential reason, what they made Stojkovic represent here, essentially means destroying the army. One amendment appeared, was written by a man who read the Law of Military Obligation, who saw all the possibilities, who is subject to military obligation, she is still general and I must draw your attention in advance, very corrupt interpretation and professional army. It has its own historical aspect, it's been going since 1991. The representatives of this vision are DS people who felt that all those who volunteered for the state, although they were not mobilized, but volunteered to protect their people and their brothers, for them are pathological killers, people who wanted to bleed their hands, to live. If you want something like that, let's make a professional army for those soldiers. Take care, if you are a professional army, then there should be really professionals, but not professionals who would have been appointed by the DS because they are bloodthirsty and those who have proposed this law, be careful how ignorant this is, he forgot about one more thing, that several months ago in the Federal Assembly, a ratified agreement whereby the state allows our soldiers to go on some peace missions around the world. Who's going on peace missions? Those who play baby-sitters, those who collect leaves in Kovin. When the law was passed, the Democratic Party said again: yes, they are professionals who love the job, they are happy to do the military work and can do anything and everything. They see the army as a group of professional killers. It's DS, it's their way of thinking. And you, do you consciously or unconsciously drive the water to that side? That's why we're against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25303	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised that, first of all, Minister Stojkovic is not there, and there are few members of the ruling coalition, especially members of his party. I am surprised that they do not use such a favourable political moment to collect political points for themselves, to explain here how good this law is for Serbian citizens, what it will all bring us. What we haven't heard in Mr Stojkovic's very harsh explanation about this law is who has even proposed such a law. It's a shame and an explanation that we got along with the very text of the law, but it's definitely not clear to who has come to mind such a wonderful idea that this law should be passed at the moment. Is the law on amnesty what currently Serbian citizens need most and what will be the fastest way to get us into the EU, which is your goal above all goals? Has this law been proposed by Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, and I wonder if it may have occurred to him after drinking that famous multiethnic coffee with his best man, Nagip Arifi, and for those who do not know who he is, it is the president of the Bujanovac municipality who recently asked to abolish the judicial verdicts against three terrorists, Albanian terrorists, members of a criminal so-called. The Liberation Army of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, which, of course, thanks to the slowness of Serbia's judiciary, has long fled to Kosovo and Metohija where they cannot be reached by the hand of justice at the moment. What's interesting is that after the last tour of the land security zone by Minister Stankovic, many strange things happen, and one of them is the adoption of so-called. political platforms. It should also be noted, and perhaps the wider public doesn't know that it didn't mind Novic Manojlovic, Deputy Nagip Arifi, and otherwise the DS, sitting next to the famous Nagip Arifi during the press conference, smiling, and then, after that, when citizens ask him how he can participate, he says: you know, we're a small part of that government, we couldn't participate. It is also interesting that the military department, i.e. the premises of the military department in Bujanovac, in which President Nagip Arifi, the godfather of Zoran Stankovic, was robbed, was changed to locks on the door, directly on the orders of Nagip Arifi. The military department's staff couldn't get into their rooms all day, and the explanation that came officially from the defence ministry was that it was a misunderstanding. I don't know what kind of misunderstanding it could have been, whether Nagip Arifi might have forgotten what was in those rooms, whether he might have arranged something else with his best man, Defence Minister, unfortunately, Zoran Stankovic, and yet it came to the media and caused some side effects, so they had to put things back on track. The big question is why amnesty is proposed precisely for these crimes. In an explanation given as a reason for the law being passed, it is said that because about 2,500 criminal charges have been filed in connection with these crimes. The first thing, 2,500 criminal charges is extremely small in the last five years, if you know how fullness is and what is the response to the military service in the SCG, then it is clear and can be seen at first sight that there are many more persons avoiding military service. When viewed from another aspect, 2,500 criminal charges are small and because for other crimes that are incomparably easier than these, there are much more reports, so the question is why this crime was chosen to propose amnesty to the perpetrators. So, much less social danger is related to other crimes and other offences, and the question is why, for example, those who have passed on to the red light did not release responsibility, they are certainly much more, so a good part of the obligation to courts and law enforcement authorities would be reduced, and certainly social dangers are less than the social dangers that cause them, but who knows what kind of amnesty for these crimes. It should also be recalled that after 5 October, a law on amnesty has already been passed. At the time, you claimed that the passing of this law was necessary, because before that, there was a dictatorship in Serbia, that it was some criminal regime that started many wars, so it is very important that all those honest and honest citizens of Serbia who wanted to serve the military but did not want to serve the regime can now respond to their obligations. It is so much more incomprehensible why today, after practically six years of coming to power so-called. Democratic regime, you're re-administering the Amnesty Act. What could have bothered anyone to serve the army in the past six years? There were no wars, there were no conflicts, which are reasons for anyone who wanted to serve the army and could prevent them from doing so? So, you say further in the explanation – "Because there has been a significant change in social circumstances regarding the implementation of the military obligation". But you don't say, of course, what the circumstances are, you don't say whether they last or cease to be in force by this law. And that, among other things, is one of the most important reasons for submitting this amendment. Because if we accept this text of the law and bring back the law of amnesty, which one of you can do to anyone tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or in three months to say, "Go serve the army." In this way, the military service is fully depreciated, the SCG Army is completely demoted, because those who have fulfilled their obligation turn out to be mad, not those who have fulfilled that obligation. It is also very important to say that this law certainly has nothing to do with the diaspora and those who allegedly live outside the country, so now they cannot come, or their children cannot come to Serbia. Because whoever read the Army Law, and certainly those who passed this law should have done so, could have noticed that there is no obligation to serve the military term for those persons who have the citizenship of another country other than Serbia and who have a residence in a foreign country. So for the children of our emigrants, there is certainly no obligation under the existing law to serve the military term in Serbia. This law applies exclusively to these domestic deserters, as I will remind you, the crimes for which amnesty is provided are: the refusal to accept and use the weapons referred to in Article 202, the non-declaration of the call and avoidance of the military service provided for in Article 214, the avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception from Article 215 and the arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army under Article 217. So this law will benefit only those who live in Serbia, who for one reason or another refused to serve the army. The question arises, and what did the promoter mean, which says – those who committed these crimes during the war have been amnested, and during the war these are all qualified forms of these crimes. A greater punishment has been threatened, and then, my God, that we may not release those who commit crimes now. But then the answer in itself is that no one will ever have any obligation or need to serve the military term again, because they will say, if the Amnesty Act is now passed, they will be brought back again and again for five years, because here, there is no reason nor now, there will be no future, but there will be some government that will bring this law. There are many reasons why we are against the adoption of the Amnesty Act. We were against the law when it was passed. As for Article 2 I have submitted the amendment, it is required to delete this member, as it was not possible to fix it in any way, so that this could survive in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what the Legislative Committee says. Article 2 says: "If the criminal proceedings are not brought against the person referred to in Article 1 of this Act, the proceedings will not be initiated, and if the criminal proceedings are ongoing, they will be suspended. If the person referred to in Article 1 of this law is legally sentenced to prison, he will be freed from the execution and sentence in general or in a non-execution act." In this way, you are doing another great injustice and you are practically rewarding those who have been more successful in avoiding a military obligation. So, a few of those who avoided military obligations had the accident, or apparently had no connection against them to not be prosecuted, so they were potentially justly and condemned and directed to support the sentence, served, whether three months, six months, a year. Now they will be released, and those who have been a little more successful in this avoidance, so that they may have fled abroad, you will now reward them and say, as for you, as if nothing had happened. He's an extremely interesting member of the 7th of this law. I must say that, in addition to the fact that the law in general is meaningless, especially an extremely pointless member of the 7th of this law, because it says "against a solution to the application of amnesty, the prosecutor, the defendant and his defender, the convicted and the person who has been authorised to make an appeal in favour of the defendant's statement, if it has filed an application", and Article 2 says, "The appeal of Article 1 does not retain the execution of the solution." Therefore, the legislator tells us that if a person is being prosecuted against, or if someone has already been convicted of it, so he is to execute the sentence, when the court, under official duty or at the request of a convicted person, makes a decision on amnesty, then that person or his representative has the right to appeal. But in the second position, at the same time, you determine that no matter what he complains, the appeal does not retain execution. When it is passed on to some real life, it is necessary to imagine a situation where someone is in prison for avoiding a military obligation, he has been sentenced to a sentence, to bring a court ruling, by official duty, on amnesty and a solution to the dismissal from further detention of prison sentences, and then he complains. What can he complain about, if this is an imperative provision of the law, because there is no choice whether you will use this act of mercy of the state or whether you will use the Law of Amnesty or not. What does that guy have to write in a complaint anyway? Do you have to say - no matter how amnesty I am, I want to serve my sentence until the end because I have deserted, and the state then says, because the prosecutor can complain – no, no, no matter what you complain, go free, and then complain further, that the state will bring you back to prison. (President: Time.) I'm done. So this is a situation that is completely pointless. It would be good for Minister Stojkovic, as an excellent lawyer and advocate of this law, to explain to us what he meant when these solutions were envisaged, who wrote this law, because I believe, no matter what, it is not him. Often he disagrees with the legal solutions he has to represent here in the Assembly and I believe that's why he's not in the O.R. right now. When it comes to the agenda of some law he really advocates, which he thinks will bring certain benefits to the citizens of Serbia and that certain political points will bring to his party and the entire ruling coalition, then members of the ruling coalition and the DSS are racing who will go out for a pay phone and explain to the citizens how much they do them, how they all help them. So it's clear here that this law is something that you're all going to raise your hands for, but absolutely no one is ready to come out here for a pay phone, look the citizens in the eyes and say, I'm the one who's tearing up the army and helping deserters, I'm the one who thinks you shouldn't serve a military deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25305	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25306	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the laws that speaks of the unprincipledness of the ruling coalition and the need to make a promise many years ago to break into a legal solution and thus to come up with an obligation, which is honorable and sacred, which is serving a military term that is in the capacity of defence of a country and everything that it defines and means. If you've ever seen in the host village that I've taken down a fence around my property and make my property more accessible to wolves and other alamas, it's about the same with this law compared to our country, its state, national, security substance and everything else that one state and one nation does to the state and people. I will state some of the cases, and I also referred to the Diaspora Committee that discussed this law. One of the greatest boxers of all time, Cassius Clay or Muhammad Ali, was convicted and endured six years of imprisonment for not agreeing to participate in the Vietnamese war, which was enslaved. So, in a well-known interventionist way, the United States entered Vietnam and committed major crimes there. So in a country like the United States, a man so famous and a renowned athlete spent six years in prison for refusing to answer his country's call. It is much simpler and easier, and it seems much more understandable to me, that those who propose this law say – we do not need an army, some other army will come here to protect us from ourselves, since we are obviously not on our own. But I'm afraid they're going to experience our children mobilising into some other army and that our children in other territories, say, peace of mind the Taliban with those others, or Turks with the Kurds, or I don't know who else, because the way things are going, it looks like it's going to happen. Anyone who can't build an overrun by state affairs will be waiting for him one day with the big interest everyone in the country, the whole nation, in the place where he least expects it. Who do we really invest in here? Someone who had or didn't have a choice, someone who had an alternative not to be in the country, when he estimated he shouldn't be? Or we will leave a military obligation in Serbia, that only the sons of workers and peasants go back to the army, and these others, due to the strong impact of the NGO sector and with the possibility of what the conscience offers, so-called The military deadline serves civil, manipulating to the extent that they can no longer be watched, to go to places where they spend 10, 11, 13 months and after that, when they're done, they get there and a working relationship. That's the case I have in Chačka. Either they report once a day to see them for ten minutes, so they're gone all day, or someone might be hiring them for a 200km dikes in Serbia today. No, only the unformed soldiers are on the run today. We have no right to do this to our children and to amneste anyone in this way, if we are a state, and if we are not a state, then we have to admit it and ask someone to introduce us to a formal protectorate, because this informal insults the intelligence of all the honest people in this country. I'm talking to the SCG Army elders, who are also at one point, believing they're doing well reforming the army in a way that's inconclusive and abnormal, they thought they were doing themselves good. No, they ran out of army, no job, retired, no ambulances, no garrisons in Serbia, no regiments in Cačka no longer exist, no body in Uzic. There's nothing left. The army can only be seen on a postcard or in an old movie. If that's the intention, then I understand, that's all you have to say. I am a soldier and I am an elder and my son will be a soldier if there is an army in this country. If he doesn't, I'll explain to him what kind of army it was and what kind of army it should be. There is no state without an army that is able to protect the state from everything that the countries of the world are protected from, that same and that kind of army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25307	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. A representative of the Government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Milajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator of this bill cited the reasons why he launched an initiative to pass the Amnesty Law. Among other things, he cited the number of people against whom a criminal trial was conducted or there are convictions and stated that it was a figure of 2,500 people. For another reason, he stated that there was, under the allegations, a "change of social circumstances" so significant that it had to be passed such an amnesty law, which would pardon 2,500 deserters. However, when Minister Stojkovic explained the law, he did not mention those reasons, he mentioned others. Among other things, he mentioned the issue of diaspora, that there are a lot of our people abroad who can't come to the country because they didn't serve a military term. He also mentioned the adoption of a similar law on amnesty in Montenegro. For the third reason, he stated that the procedure for the adoption of a law on the buy-in of a military deadline means that there will be a possibility of ransom — one who does not want to serve a military term, that he will be able to give a certain amount of money to avoid military service. These are the reasons that led the government to come out with a bill like this. However, these reasons absolutely do not stand, nor can they be acceptable to any serious state. The adoption of such a law weakens that part of society and state that must be a pillar and a headquarters, which is an army. The pillar of every serious state is the army and its armed forces. But it's not done by accident, and it's reflected in other areas of life, it's written by someone else who shouldn't come out of the mouse hole, so we had an example from the Shop. Yesterday, it was mentioned here that the manager of the municipality of Trgovište wants to separate the municipality and attach it to Macedonia if the government of the Republic of Serbia does not provide twom euros for the development of the municipality. Of course, the manager is from the Democratic Party, and Tadic was almost on a tour of the municipality of Trgovište. Probably the manager was encouraged by his party president's arrival, so he could make such a crazy statement -- that he would break the municipality of Trgovište from Serbia and attach it to the Republic of Macedonia because they do not have twom euros if they are not provided with the two million. I'd just like to remind you that the town of Shop has 370 km2, and that Malta has 312 km2. So the City of Commerce is bigger than the State of Malta without speaking from Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, etc. Such ideas can only come to mind people with certain health problems. Secondly, they can say something like that on the radio "OK," I think that's what it's called. So he put it out in public through the media. They can only say that if a favourable social climate is created. So, conditions are made that someone can come up with such an idea and with such a thesis, that they trade the territory of the state and that it's literally a sale. Otherwise, it's the democratic party's manners, since they have everything for sale. There are no things they wouldn't sell and wouldn't trade with. They can only do that if they're allowed. If we're going to be a serious state, that man has to be behind bars, not a manager of the City of Commerce. This may work with Boris Tadic, as president of the Democratic Party, but if we pretend to be a serious state, that man must be in prison. I would like to point out that in the assembly procedure there was a bill on combat and disability protection and that it was withdrawn, it seems to me that under the pressure of the Socialists the government has withdrawn the law. This law is very interesting to compare with this law and to see two categories of faces. The Law on Combat and Disability Protection regulates the relations and rights of people who are either wounded or suffering from wartime acts and members of families of fallen fighters, civilian victims of war and civilian disabled wars. So, the people who were killed by the war and who were damaged in the war. The state proposed that the law reduce certain rights. The number of rights remained the same, but the total receiving fund was cut by about 25%. There were also protests of wartime military disableds two weeks ago, so under the pressure the government has withdrawn the law from the procedure. On the one hand, you have a category of persons who responded to the call of the state and participated in war conflicts and, unfortunately, died one way or another, and on the other hand you have a category of persons who did not want to carry a rifle in peacetime conditions. Since this amnesty law applies to persons from 7 October 2000 until the day of adoption of this law, as far as I know, there was no war on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so they were not threatened that they had to flee or leave the army or refuse to carry arms. There are people who are afraid, there were always people in the war who deserted because of fear, someone more afraid, someone less, but in peacetime conditions 2,500 won't serve military time or refuse to receive weapons and now we're discussing what we're going to do with them, so there's no point, they should be amnesty. We might as well get there to compensate them for the damage they suffered due to their escape from the country, which they had to hide abroad, to pay for their travel expenses, accommodations in the hotel. Then that's what we should do. It doesn't make sense, people are exposed to huge costs, especially those that have been abroad for years; you know how much costs are abroad, it's a much more expensive life than here. If you compare these two bill proposals, this is, at the very least, inhumane to be adopted according to this second category of people who responded to the country's call, participated in the war. Unfortunately, one of them paid too high a price and remained mutilated, crippled, someone died, unhappy his family. When those two categories of people are compared, I think it's a shame, to those who responded to the call of the state, to adopt such a law. In the end, I would like to say, for the sake of truth, since Dr Vojislav Seselj and his victory in the 1991 elections were mentioned here. I didn't want to report it when it was debated, but for the sake of truth, I have to say that the additional elections in Rakovica were in June 1991, that his rivals were Borisav Pekic of the Democratic Party, Jova Marjanovic of the SPO, a professor of political science and of the SPS of a man from Rakovica, I don't know exactly what he's called, he didn't show up in politics anymore, so I lost sight of him. Dr. Vojislav Seselj beat them in the majority system in the first round. He literally cleaned them up and in the first round he took over 60% of the votes against all the other candidates. It's on to the story of setting up election results. The will of the citizens cannot be settled. The citizens' will is unimpeached and the citizens have shown best how they feel about Dr Vojislav Seselj, not to mention the 1997 elections, where Zoran Lilić and Milan Milutinovic also blew away, and you know how the Socialists shot down the election result of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25309	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Mr. Momir Markovic, then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever I come to the Assembly in the morning and see a police car across the street, I think it's worked for the rule of law, so they come to arrest either Boris Tadic or this director of his National Office, this tycoon of his who sells seconds to Serbian citizens. Of course, after I see that these are their escorts, that the police are still guarding them, and now to tell you why I expect the rule of law to work and eventually Boris Tadic to find a place in Bachvanska. We had an army that was the fifth in the world, a respectable army, an army that was both armed and trained and prepared to defend the country. Then the wars came and that army managed to defend everything that was put before her. The last example is when the military opposed NATO's pact, 19 NATO nations and successfully defended the state and people against aggression, and then Boris Tadic came to the minister. It's the same Boris Tadic, who in the Nikinci, in order to get in touch with Western mentors and their cashiers, destroyed two and a half thousand missiles of "Strela 2M", the missiles that shot down the largest number of cruise missiles. The largest number of cruise missiles shot down every plane that reached 2,000 meters in range, as well as all drones. That rocket was supposed to be destroyed and Boris Tadic did it. First crime to the state, to the military. What happens next and you're yourselves witnesses, as long as tanks, cannons, weapons went to waste, cut and sold as old iron. After him comes that Davinic, a man whom NATO has been preparing for 40 years to finish his job here in Serbia and, along the way, to take some money, because he has a small allowance and a ministerial salary and what the NATO Pact is paying him and his pension. Then he made a deal with Israel, where we got the satellite. What that satellite was recording, it's not clear to anyone today, but this country needs 40m euros to pay Israel. Of course, there goes Davinić and then, as the order goes, first we had Tadic, then the spies, eventually the coroner Zoran Stankovic comes. It's the same minister who should now end up destroying the military's leadership chamber. How long has he fired the military faces so far? You don't know. As many of the highest-quality generals retired, the general retires at age 48. There is no general who comes to the rank of general at 48 years of age. Seven hundred and some colonels and colonels are preparing to retire now, and they're retirementing a man because he went to a funeral, that is. to honor Slobodan Milosevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the point of "i." Two-and-a-half thousand deserters, two-and-a-half thousand who went abroad and didn't respond to the call, didn't serve the army, and despite the possibility of civil service of the military and what could have happened in the army itself, in uniform, not to carry a weapon, that call for conscience. The children of the Bulldozer Revolution left. To understand something, after "the Bulldozer of the Revolution," after 7 October, it was those who escaped from your democracy that were your heroes who burned the Parliament and then left. Now they need to be pardoned, or amnested. So what about the kids who serve the army? The greatest nakarada that could have been made is the so-called civil service of the military term. Four hundred and something sits in "Green Belgrade", serving a military deadline undermining roses, and nearly 200 serve them at the National Theatre. The National Theatre has 150 seats, and 200 are served by the military, and when the Danube arrived, when it was due to come out, to help, none of those who serve the military did respond. But a unit came from Jacob, a rocket division and an engineering company, came, set up a tent, all day the captain of duty with our commander of Civil Protection headquarters in Zemun. He's on duty next to the Sharan, next to the Beef's ship, down the pier in Zemun. Instead of rewarding these people, you will send them into retirement, and those who have gathered and left now you will amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this law, not only this member, but the whole law should be rejected. You can't accept something like this. Tomorrow no one will go to the army to train to defend the family, let alone the country. By the way, I would like to ask a parliamentary question, and regarding a senior official of the ruling coalition who also advocated similar laws at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I wonder if it's true that his son served an army in Israel?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25311	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25312	Ladies and gentlemen, on February 24th, we held a magnificent rally, during the three years of Vojislav Seselj's stay in The Hague, a rally at which we supported our president's heroic struggle in that criminal case and in which we condemned that so-called court, which is why Vojislav Seselj's trial for three years, and even more, does not begin. The bard of the Serbian theatre, late Danilo Lazovic, told General Bozidar Delic publicly that he was retired in 40 and a few years, because he would be worried about him if he had active generals like this and these. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the attitude of a true patriot towards the leadership of the Serbia-Montenegro Army and this is the attitude that has been current since the arrival of the DOS to power, i.e. from the five-octobarian "buldozer of revolution", and one of the fluids of that revolution is the destruction of the Yugoslav Army at that time, and today the armies of Serbia-Montenegro. You've done everything. When I say you did, I mean all those who support the ruling coalition and those who have supported DOS since 2000 to this day and at the republican and federal level. Now it's not federal, it's the level of the state community. So you did everything to destroy the army just because you knew that the Serbian people always loved their army, loved their uniform, to appreciate the army. You tried to bring down everything that was the size of the Serbian people to some level that should be despised by that same people. Of course, you failed when it comes to the Yugoslav army at the time, and today, the SCG Army. I will give a few concrete examples of how ministers from Boris Tadic to this present-day villain, Zoran Stankovic, treated the military and thus contributed to the military's reputation and to destroying Serbia's citizens' trust in the military. What is the essence of what today's army is? The point is to prepare the peace forces, that our soldiers, our young men, are going to die in Iraq, Afghanistan; to go there to fight, or to shed blood in battle for those who are under occupation, as is part of our territory, i.e. Serbia, thanks to you, under direct occupation and thanks to Vuk Draskovic and his signature on that shameful contract that allowed NATO forces to cross the territory of Serbia-Montenegro. Mr. Vukic also spoke to you today and asked, why this minister Stankovic, and he is known as one of the leaders of the pharmaceutical mafia, at VMA abolished the pharmaceutical service for the daughters of Jove Djoga to resign, his wife too. Why Lieutenant Colonel Milisav Pancic was fired and now with his family on the street without a settled housing issue, in the phase of resolving the retirement procedure before the time, because in a military uniform, he stood beside the stage of his senior commander, former Serbian-Yugoslavija President Slobodan Milosevic. Furthermore, your relationship is being looked at and in what, let's say someone here spoke earlier, Momir Markovic seems to me, about those invisible who were destroying our pilots, for your information, the pilot who was very active at the time when that invisible plane was shot down, today, believe it or not, is employed in a palace in the Kingdom, thus extended to him by the minister and those previous ministers, both this Stankovic and Tadic, thus showing their relationship to those who were willing to die for their country, or to defend their country. After many years of refusing to run the municipality of Kraljevo, a memorial plate was set up for the boys who died in the war in Kosovo and Metohija. Why I say after many years – because the municipal leadership refused to set up that memorial board with an explanation that the existence of such a memorial plate would bother foreign delegations coming to the Kingdom. Why am I bringing this up? Because I was in the Kingdom two days ago and because I spoke to a woman named Djova Pilipovic, who was killed in Kosovo and Metohija by her son Tomislav, and her husband, Elijah, went to his son's grave in 2001 and never returned. So, this Majova Pilipovic begged the authorities in the King to place the name of her son, Tomislav, on the memorial plate, because he had no other place where his name could be entered, and he was a fighter of the Yugoslav Army. They wouldn't let her, they told her that her son, who died in Kosovo and Metohija, wasn't born in the King. She begged this lady to introduce herself to the public of Serbia with such a truly terrible fact. Who knows how many more similar examples you have and instead of worrying about such things, it's amazing that someone can laugh out loud while talking about the guys who died in Kosovo and Metohija. Instead of taking care of such people and families, you're proposing a law on amnesty. First, to explain another fact, concerning the Minister of Diaspora, Vukčević, who was trying, as I realized, to make this law his or her own, or to be a proposal from his ministry, even though it had nothing to do with the ministry. Almost came to the SRS a man born of the White Manastir who is next door to this minister Vukčević. I received it, talked to this man, showed me photographs of the magnificent house of Minister Vukčević in Bela Manastir built by the Ustasha Croatian state, as reportedly, adapted to him during the war a ruined house, and his house was not destroyed at all. The man who came to show us that picture and to talk about it and to ask us to talk about it in public also showed me his house that was really destroyed and destroyed during the war. Of course, his house has no intention of repairing, for the Croatian Ustasha state only repairs houses for those who are in good relations with them. So, the amnesty law you've proposed, and this is already the second law. This is very interesting – that immediately after October 5th, the Law on Amnesty was passed, where all those who did not respond to military calls were amnesty. At that time, it was clear to all in Serbia that the law was passed because Zoran Djindjic was one of those who did not respond to the military's call and because at that time he asked Milo Djukanovic to extend the bombing of Serbia-Montenegro to the West, and to show which targets they were supposed to bomb, to at least suspend the story. Then the Law on Amnesty was passed and all those who had not responded to the military call were amnesty. You are now amnestying persons who have committed four crimes from 7 October 2000 to the day of entry into force of this law. So, first of all, you should have made it clear that this is amnesty for criminal acts. I'm asking you, why didn't you propose a law where we amnest those who were convicted or sentenced to prison, to parole or possibly fines, because they might have done some petty theft somewhere because they didn't have anything to eat, because family members were out of work, as a result of the adoption and introduction of so-called. democracy in Serbia. Some of them didn't steal anything, like, This woman who killed herself yesterday because she got fired, and two years ago she was given a work order, as the best employee in her firm. Of course, someone ends up having to kill himself, because they can't survive your democracy, someone might have to steal something small to feed the children and family. Then it would be more humane if you had passed the law to amnesty those who were possibly convicted or prosecuted for such crimes than those who committed these crimes. Indeed, all these crimes that you listed in Article 1 are difficult. It's a bill of law. Since the law applies only to those who have committed crimes until the entry into force of this law, however, I call on all recruits to serve, regardless of this law, the real army, and not like this Tadic adviser, Vuk Jeremic, to be maids and baby-sitters in hospitals and homes of health, but to really serve the army, because I do not believe that the future assembly majority will ever pass the Law on amnesty of those who do not serve their army as expected from any honest citizen of Serbia. What else is the conduct of the military summit, first of all Minister Stankovic? In continuing to promise the arrest of Ratko Mladic, he brings in members of his family; he brings in his son's friends for questioning; he sends out financial inspection, as if Ratko Mladic's son was crazy, so he hasn't carried out his obligations to the state, knowing since they've been keeping an eye on him and since they've been waiting for him to commit some kind of violation, so they can't have him shut down his company and make him come maybe materially dependent on him to betray his father in any way. Of course, we do not expect this to happen, but it is a terrible thing that I have read these days, as the deadline for the extradition of Ratko Mladic has been extended for several months, and the last deadline published in the media that is also under your control is that Ratko Mladic will be arrested at Easter. It's something really scary. I hope that's not going to happen, but imagine how it associates it with Ustasha crimes, from that NDH in 1941, and then after these last wars, because they all committed such crimes on big Serbian holidays -- both at Easter and Christmas. Of course, you know that, on Vidovdan you arrested Slobodan Milosevic, you have already joined such ones, specifically the Ustashas, because only the Ustashas treat the Serbian people that way. Just one more sentence, seeing as I've wasted my time, I apologize, I'll be done. Those who accuse us of saying that Serbia should have an army, of course it should, and that we think that we should have an army because we are preparing for war, it is not true, we are not preparing for war, but we think that the state should have an army and in peace, because these days, the only volunteers who defend Serbia from the Danube and Sava are soldiers of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25313	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, Mr Krasic also reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25314	Dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when the Kumanski Agreement was signed against whom the SRS and so-called SRS were against. The Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement, which meant the occupation of our southern province, Kosovo and Metohija, and then, through the really great emotional charge that existed in our people, which had survived the criminal NATO aggression in the last 78 days, there was an incredible degree of trust in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's army, i.e. people knew that soldiers and elders, generals, chief of staff, had held themselves courageously and resolutely in battle with the greatest military force in the world. The people were very helpful in this, but immediately after the five-octobaric coup, with the first appointment of the minister from another member, named Krapovic, people knew that it would follow the steep fall of the SRJ army, and I must remind you that it was the first military minister to go into physical action with the MPs. Imagine, only an abnormal man can try such a thing and initiate some physical conflict with such a man and such a gromad as the president of our party, the Chetnik Duke – Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Krapovic received what he deserved, followed the appointment of the second minister, also from Montenegro, and then the arrival of Boris Tadic with the nomination of the complete DOS-manlia-guarantee, with the express suspicion of us Serbian radicals and people who are honorary officers, members of the Yugoslav Army, whether at all this man, and where and when he served the military deadline. If you are making a survey here today – where you served the army, how long did it last, to ask Tadic, he may not be able to give you such an answer. I have to remind you of who he named in his environment and who his advisors were, some of them, and today. I must remind you that the military and the role of our army and famous generals, such as one of the most famous among them, General Bozidar Delic, who retired from 48 years of age and who commanded the most difficult fighting positions, in Kosharam, defending our southern province, representatives of the then DOS-Mali authorities, especially those from the DS, such as Cedomir Jovanovic, Sutanovec and such, spoke the worst of our army and the role of the SRJ army during the defence of the state and peoples. Then it started with open robbery and machinations in the military of Yugoslavia, with the humiliation of members, which was high-ranking personnel, which were soldiers, which were people who were citizens at the service of the SRJ military, until an open conflict with those who think otherwise, until the cleanup in the Yugoslav Army, that is, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, with resignations that followed in waves. General Bozidar Delic is known to the general public as the youngest retired general, with high honours and war credits in defending the state and the people, but there are many others whose names you do not know. They were driven out of the army only because they had fulfilled their constitutional obligation by taking an oath to serve their country and to defend the state and the people. However, it was clear after October 5th, not only to us Serbian patriots, but also to our friends anti-globalists, such as those who make up one of the most famous military personnel in the world, which are officers, generals of the Russian army, Belarusian and all of our friends, that the military summit that defended the state and the people is not only on the shooting list, and that they are charged with anti-Serbian The Hague tribunal, but also those who were in the lower rank of command, will suffer only because they remained faithful and loyal to their country and their people. Many, who knows how many, hundreds, thousands of those who have been fired, who have been trying to keep their jobs where they have spent decades, since they've been known to defend the state and worked in the military. I remember, right after those terrorist attacks and all that was happening in the pogrom of our people in Kosovo and Metohija in 2004, the night between 17 March and 28 March followed the calls of our Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I think, right, counterpart Kragovic, that there are about 500 of them in the military somewhere, in fact, those who are civilian at the service in the Yugoslav Army, or Serbia-Montenegro, who are currently being fired. These people, today and today, without a piece of bread, have received some miserable severance, and not only them, but there have been hundreds of them in Kragujevac, in Nis, I think, several thousand, and across Serbia, all because of the fact that NATO is a pact and by the EU, which, by all segments, monitors what you are doing and how you carry out their tasks in the process, as they call it in their official document "Reforming the Defence System", clearly outlined how many soldiers should have our country, what they should do to destroy the army completely, because they have done so in the countries in the environment. Ask neighbouring Bulgaria to join the EU on 1 January 2007, from as many military personnel as they now have left. Ask Romanians, Greeks, ask anyone who conducted NATO military doctrine what the military now looks like. If that's normal for you and if it's normal for those who have deserted amnesty and that you still praise them and favor them as some famous public figures that are this or that, then absolutely neither do you have anything patriotic in you nor do you know the constitutional law of this country. And how could you possibly suggest something like this at all? What did they have to hide from when they were already such poor and miserable and were so blasphemed about their own people and were directly to their statements and their desertive behavior during NATO aggression in NATO's service of the pact, and what was it to them at the arrival of Krapovic and the one Radojevic and later on Tadic bothered them since 7 October 2000? Then why did you give them support and give them the day of the vote? Well, because you've been thinking the same way as the ones who've escaped military service. There is no difference between you and those who amnesty in this law. You are thinking exactly the same thing about you who served the army and you know that, as counterpart Markovic said, the army of Serbia or the SRJ was one of the strongest and most skilled with officer personnel, above all among the top five in the world, and you know what all the armies did and what those officers, generals, did, defending the state and the people, not only during NATO aggression but all the time, setting themselves up by raising the morale to the people, especially during the time we were kidnapped by western Serb countries -- Republika Srpska Krajina and Republika Srpska. You don't care, all you care about is what it says here. This is from November last year, and they say nicely: Yeah, you didn't go with military doctrine as the NATO Pact prescribes you and how the EU asks you to do. Here, 15 days ago, he was this unfortunate, earlier protected witness in the war against Serbs in The Hague tribunal, Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, who was appointed minister at the request of Carla del Ponte because he himself promised to deliver General Mladic to The Hague. But, uh, a little tomorrow, what would the kids say, or some people in a joke, or a little the day after tomorrow. Well, it won't be May 1st, and I don't know what May or what year. Neither you nor the unfortunate traitor Zoran Stankovic. But he doesn't care. It was founded prior to his appointment of the Army Reform Fund. What happened? Suddenly the Fund disappeared 5-6 million, and then it started climbing to a hundred million, they even say it here, but they're okay with it. And you know what else they add? Certain conflicts among political groups, as the defence system is in the jurisdiction of the state community, they said, in order to show that some malfeasances occurred, and then suddenly culminated in the resignation of the defence minister. At the same time, they say the military reform continues to hamper the lack of funds. Money went missing from the Army Reconstruction Fund, sold out in a hurry like that, and people lost their pay, several thousand fired. Just tell me, when was an apartment built or a settlement was built for officers and members of their families? You weren't interested in that. You were interested in those who hid under women's skirts, those who deserted and waited for you to come to power and enter the procedure of this law. You know, they're unfortunate people who have nothing on them. When a male child is born in the house, it is known to be healthy and right, to learn honor and honesty and one day to serve, or to defend the state and the people, to join the army and, God forbid, defend your country if necessary. All of this is normal to you, all of their intentions, all of what they as "Europeans" have brought here, which they have tried and experimented in these countries in the environment. You only accept it so that they can be approached and that you will blindly fulfill those orders. And it's no accident, then, why for days we've been mentioning both Mr. Djog and Lieutenant Colonel Milisav Pancic, an officer of honor, Lieutenant Colonel, who came to the funeral in uniform to escort his commander, former president of Serbia and the SRJ. You couldn't wait, or this traitor Stankovic, for five or ten days, you fired a man. A man doesn't even have a roof over his head, lives in a barracks, in an auxiliary ward, with a husband who doesn't work anywhere. So what do we talk about next? Where does this lead us, what kind of state will it be, and then what will be the purpose of meeting this assembly and that we who want to survive the SCG state union, do everything to make it so, and then what, May 22nd and in the years and months that follow? There is no army, there is nothing that has adorned this country and this people through the centuries of tradition; you have no education, or education, health care is reduced to the lowest possible branches, an army destroyed. Then what are we, a banana republic? Why didn't you remember to call all these days press conferences and talk about killed soldiers in Slovenia, how the Ustashas killed them? For years you twisted, only with the desire to attack the SRS, the indisputable facts of recent history – when he began to defend the people and when the Ustashas came upon the naked people and the bare-armed soldiers on the Koran Bridge, there were 36 of them, never mentioned them, perhaps more, I apologized if I had wronged that information; and when our young soldiers were killed in barracks across Republika Srpska, or what they now call – the Republic of Croatia. That's what we need to talk about here, as well as the fact that one murdered soldier and his family remained just a father and sister, because his mother and grandmother both died of grief, for 15 years no one visited until the issue was updated. Now you're going to tell everyone who wants to kidnap both the Shop and the Kragujevac, tomorrow and Raska and the King and the Saturday, and Novi Sad and Belgrade, so we won't be left with a Belgrade pasaluk – come on, go, you're allowed, we don't need the state anymore, we don't need the territory, we don't need anything. We have no intention of war with anyone, nor have we ever begun, as a nation or as a nation or as no wars, but we have defended what has belonged to us for centuries and we have tried to protect the naked people and the surrounding Knins, and in the Serbian Moravicas, and in Islam of Greece and Latin. To remind you, these are places in the Republika Srpska Krajina, where they are armed with Ustashas, by their western mentors headed for the naked old men. First they were macholy killed, and then they were hanged like that. What are you talking about? All the time and all these years, about what will happen if those who are financed by the West, to power, spoke the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Because he was an advocate of the idea to preserve what is ours and to preserve our territory, because it bothers you, and because he's been telling you the truth all along, which is a real Serbian patriot, he's been in the Hague casamat for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25315	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not vote for this amendment and I call on all Members of Parliament not to vote for it. "All five who listen to you?" It doesn't matter how much he listens to them, it's going to be a day to vote, so it's going to be 130 again, like all the previous days. Maybe that's why the SRS rhetoric has been pretty nervous lately compared to the last two years. Nevertheless, the argument alone did not convince me at all that this amendment should be voted upon. The doctrine of an armed people is something no one uses anymore, not even China. Everyone gave up on her, but it seems the Serbian radicals haven't figured it out yet. Our country needs a new doctrine. We don't call it NATO doctrine, but it's working on that new one. This country needs rocket systems to defend its sky, not cannons 20/3 mm, on which I sat and shot for free those who bombed us. You were ruling during that time (received to the MP Momir Markovic), and after that you were where you were, while I was shooting. On the other hand, this country needs allies. This country must never be left alone again, like in 1998 or the previous years, since the '90s and so forth. She must have allies, because when we were illegally attacked by the NATO Pact and when we were violently and illegally bombed, we were left alone. No responsible politician in this country should ever allow it again. So we have to do what smart people would do. Serbia progressed, economically, politically, territorially only when it had strong allies. Whenever she was alone, she fell apart. I didn't know we had to worry about the doctrines of neighbouring countries, but it seems we should take out the SRS and Bulgarians and Romanians, so they know how to organize their country, not how they work now. Thanks to how they work, their standard is far higher than ours, and from 1 January 2007, they will be EU members. God and Serbia, of course, will have the brains, will continue this way and will be very soon where it belongs – in the EU. The economy will be much stronger than it is now, as it was five years ago, the citizens will have a much higher standard and Serbia will have allies and friends around the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25317	Ms Jovanovic has the right to the replica, and I see that Mr Markovic also appeared, as he was directly mentioned and Mr Krasic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25318	Mr. Shormaz, we representatives of the SRS, as the most numerous representatives of the political party in Serbia... You're the only one running away. Here's to your walk, the fleet, the diaries, the girls, the cafes and so on, and we'll work. As for our activities and activities of the Yugoslav Army during NATO aggression, not only should everyone in this room be proud of it, and I told you that one of the most famous officers from that war, General Bozidar Delic, retired at the age of 48. Such deserters and those that you now defend the people never wanted, nor will they ever accept them. In his soul, in the heart of the Serbian people, no matter how difficult it may be for him, no matter how much he knows that his country and people are at risk, he can never be more than 0.001%, those who are open-minded to treason are measured. As for political action and Mr. Shormaz and his followers and what you did after October 7th, the people have punished you enough, they will only punish you in the elections. Now, in a situation where it is discussed whether this authority and that unfortunate Vukcevic, I don't know who you already put through the pigeons of writers and other mechanisms to catch General Mladic, I tell you that we have told him not to surrender. I'm sure he won't do it and you'll never make it to the famous general. You know why? Because we are thinking about the future and the fact that The Hague tribunal is not founded because Kostunica or Boris Tadic would meet with Carla del Ponte, so that they would hang out and chat with her, but to bring judgments to us, too, who attributed the most suffering people to genocide and who knows which generations, those who under your authority will not be able to go into the army, because they will have no place to serve them, pay war damages to those who, in fact, killed us and bombed us. That's what this is about. If you think the people didn't recognize in us that we're stately thinking, in the long run, and we've been thinking like that, and our president's been back for so many years, you're wrong. That's what the next election will show. The fact is that all these people and members of their families, honorable and honest, who are members or were members of the Yugoslav Army, know that we are right, that this is a shameful law, that you are not interested in anything else, like this ficfiric who came out, this Shormaz, with his purse under his hand. The people have a name, you know what those bags are called. There goes a man in an unknown direction, cares about him and the army and the assembly and what happens tomorrow. We're not you. First of all, we are honorable people, sincere Serbian patriots, and be sure that millions of those who support us will do everything possible to restore the reputation of the army and all the affected state institutions in the near future. One more thing, two months ago, Deputy President of the SRS Mr Tomislav Nikolic refused to talk about it in public, and then he answered the journalist's question at the press conference. He said another disgrace to the current government, the minister and those who are handling the army today. In the municipality of Bujanovac, i.e. in the area of the so-called area of Bujanovac. Our army's land security, until Tomislav Nikolic and General Bozidar Delic, who was retired, had no water. It took only a little effort and minimal investment, as many individuals from your government steal daily without talking about this Gilas, Tadic's tycoon, in fact, it was a job in a few days, to provide the military with water. Six or more such wells were made, the army got water and then a colonel, who found Mr. Nikolic there, said: "Please don't mention it, nor my name, you know what these are, fired immediately from work." He told him well Tomislav Nikolic, and I will end it: there is no need for that, in a few months in Serbia I will ask myself, as well as the SRS, and when that happens, you will be rehabilitated, the famous generals will be in the position of Chief of Staff, and all those who have sinned against the law and those who have worked against the Constitution and against the law will have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25319	The word is by MP Momir Markovic, mentioned in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25320	How nice it is when the session runs normally, when the chairman does his job, unlike some who worked before noon and these days. Mr. Shormaz, he's gone, he's out, but he's probably looking, so I'm gonna go straight to him, since he called me. I was on the battlefield when Vukovar was released, in the Mirkovci, and where you were, I have no idea and I don't care. When you shot, Mr. Shormaz, the Federal Assembly burned down, Serbia's Radio-Television burned down. That you didn't guess, or you didn't know you hit it, that's your problem, but that's proof that you didn't master military training and that you spent your ammunition for nothing. It is an interesting idea for Mr. Shormaz to take radicals to Romania or Bulgaria. You wouldn't be making camps for radicals and their sympathies, would you? It's a typical fascist statement, and so is this "fecal" advisor from this across the street. What's going on with that democratic option of Serbia? What is the deviation of the most visible democracy to total fascism? Are you afraid that the election is approaching? Do you fear that after the election all papers will have to be carried to the table, so many of you will have to answer for what they did or did not do, and especially for what they did on the system: "What the eye sees, the hand does not leave". Being in Sabre, Mr. Shormaz, that's what's waiting for you. During "Sabre" I was in custody for a list of 72 employees, it says in a criminal report. You'll be in custody, then in prison for at least 72 criminal acts of thieving. One more thing to remind the citizens of Serbia, so it doesn't go unsaid. You are not looking for Karadzic or Mladic because you need Karli del Ponte to meet the conditions, Karadzic's head and head, Mladic, are being blackmailed at $5m each. The guide comes to your mouth when you mention the name Mladic, when you remember the size of a suitcase that should cost you five million dollars. After all, Slobodan Milosevic was also valued for five million dollars. That Vidovdan, when you deliver him, three or four days after the delivery, don't hold my word, the DOS launderer comes in with his hands in his pockets in the American embassy and comes out with a suitcase. What happened after that with the suitcase and the case holder, think about it. Anyway, that chief accountant upstairs seems to have now a pentium computer so much faster and faster than he's ever done before. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments to the SRS for all members from 1st to 9th must be adopted and this law should be returned not to completion, but to rewriting. This doesn't serve anything. This could not serve even the policy that Minister Lalovic makes his laws for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25321	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The Republic has an authorised representative of the SRS for this agenda point, Mr Zoran Krasic. Just one announcement, not to miss because of the MPs who are following, today we will be working not until the end of the debate point, which is on the agenda in particular, but no later than 20.00 hours, as far as we pass the amendment. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25322	Mr. Markovic, you were not present, Mr. Shormaz has really exceeded all possible tolerances for one decent exposure. I am not surprised by Mr. Shormaz, although I am truly sorry that he is not present in the O.R. to hear what might be answered by those observations and feelings he has made so sincere from this pay phone. I am not surprised by him, for he in his MP group has the duty to keep records at the door, when a quorum is being made whether everyone is present, whether someone is coming out or not. You probably know, there's a mythical animal named Kerber, she takes care of who goes in and out of another room. And according to the function he has, I'm not surprised by what he said from this pay phone. He said he would be happy to take the SRS to Bulgaria and Romania. Our idea has long been present in Bulgaria and Romania, there is no need to worry. There's no need to export anyone. It doesn't occur to us to export neither the party nor any individual. But apparently in this way he demonstrates his political stance on what he would be willing to do to preserve his party's power and position, perhaps even the guardian of these doors and the recorder of the quorum. The second thing, which is a serious warning to the ruling coalition, I must remind you that your presidential candidate and your president, I can say so, because he was elected President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tadic, as defence minister worked on a strategy that included the doctrine of defence. The document was brought in, so to inform Mr. Shormaz, he was probably prevented from hearing it, since he was guarding the door. So this country has its own defense strategy, its own doctrine. This law does not touch doctrines or strategies. But you just have to let him know, because what you're demonstrating as unintelligence becomes quite a moral feature, when a man simply has to act like a little child, and a little child when he doesn't want to see or want to notice that something exists, he puts his fingers on his eyes and he's gone. Mr. Shormaz would like to put his hand over his eyes and see what doesn't suit him. Unfortunately, this is the National Assembly, you can hear hard words here, but it's also painful truth and it's a much harder collision with reality, which you'd have to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25323	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic, a representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25324	Mr. President, I'm going to use this amendment to Article 6, of course you won't be angry, since that previous law had something similar that deserves a comment, so I'm going to make a kind of comparison of these two bill proposals. In the afternoon debate, turbo-speed, a discussion on the Rehabilitation Act was concluded, and let me remind you, there in one article it was said that in the process of rehabilitation before the first-degree court to decide more than three judges and that the procedure was public. The next article said that an interested person, who initiated the procedure, had received a solution rejecting a rehabilitation request, had the right to appeal. Now, if the procedure is public, then there should probably be another party that would have to be the opposite, it would probably have to be a representative of the prosecution, which protects, in the extreme case, not only the state interests, but also the social system of values in the state. He would probably have to have the status of the party in the process and ask for a review of that first-degree solution. Unfortunately, we couldn't in the afternoon debate, because of the speed, to point out this shortfall, because it's not going to go public without excluding the possibility of intervening someone on behalf of the social community, the state, the government and the security system of values, and the morality that lies in our regulations. Apparently, that law is for one-time use and selective application. What is referred to in Article 6. Amnesty bill? It is stated that the solution provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of this Act may also be made at the request of the accused or convicted person or person who, for the benefit of the accused, can be brought to the attention of the appeal. At first glance it acts as a stereotype and standard provision on the possibility that, although this procedure is under official duty, the defendant and someone who performs on his behalf can file a request. It is likely that the request aims to draw attention to the fact that the deadline has expired by law, and here are very short deadlines of three days, and also gives the party the opportunity to warn the court and simply act, in accordance with the law, one of the decisions of Articles 4 and 5. It's a bill of law. Of course, we're contesting this whole concept of law, so we had to include this member. But I have to go back to this before, because this member is based on Articles 4 and 5. The deadlines laid down for the court to decide, depending on the phase of the proceedings, whether the procedure is in progress, whether it is legally completed, whether the person is in detention; all these situations are in some way delimited, in all these situations the deadline is unique and he stands three days from the date of entry into force of this law. If by any chance there had been no subsupervised copying of this text from those previous laws, you would probably understand that, if the person is in custody of the prison sentence and the amnesty is to be applied, to get rid of the detention of the prison sentence, by this law, the competent court of general jurisdiction, according to the place where the detention office is located. You will probably understand that after the entry into force of this law, it takes some time for the administrator of the criminal law to make a list and specify the cases that the persons are in custody, so that he can inform his local court so that he can apply these provisions. It's not here. Since it's not there, it's possible a few conclusions. The first conclusion is that no one is in custody because of the reasonable suspicion that these acts have been carried out under Article 1 of this Act. The other is the possibility that no person can be treated. The third option – that no person is present at the detention of the prison for the crimes referred to in Article 1 of this proposal. However, if you listen to the diaspora who says – 2,500 criminal charges only exist and almost no further proceedings are conducted. Criminal charges have been handed over to the D.A.'s attorney-in-chief, perhaps the prosecutor, since the prison's fines are small, has filed an indictment against the competent court, and that's where it stands. You haven't even looked at this possible situation, that someone's in jail. And we can accept that, that you want to speed up, but we can't accept the fact that when this law comes into force, but the next day, that same person for whom there's a criminal record can get a new criminal record for the same crimes. Why? Because the military service obligation exists from the age of 18 to the age of 35. I didn't want to talk, because I don't know, but you told me. It's possible a criminal report has a man who's 25 years old. If released, he's freed from criminal responsibility under this law, but he's not released from military duty. The next day he's in a felony and he's practically not protected by this law. That's the nonsense. Why am I saying this? Because it's a much more correct path, legally and constitutionally observed, that you've made a proper amendment to the law, now I can't exactly say the name, because I don't know who regulates this, whether it's the Law of Defence or the Law of the Army, but probably somewhere in those two regulations there's an obligation that requires military service. If you had made a change there, so that you excluded or excluded from the obligation to serve children – the second, third generation abroad, etc., it might have been acceptable for this National Assembly. It may even be acceptable with basic reasons, but this is how they protect themselves from criminal responsibility. Who, if not the diaspora, then who? Those who could be freed by the one who would pass the pardon act, and who would not want to pass the act, because there are a large number of persons who should be pardoned. Given such a large number of hot potatoes, cohabitation is pushing the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I do not believe stands in positions to give amnesty because someone does not respect democracy. It's impossible to talk about democracy and human rights without respecting regulations. What kind of democracy is that if the regulations adopted by the democratic government are not respected? Assuming that nothing was democratic before October 5th, this law only affected the period since you burned the congregation to this day. Of course, that arson and that light have shown that freedom, democracy, has finally come, that human rights are flourishing. So, since you're going to have a selective application, it's better that you've thrown Boris Tadic, who's authorized to bring pardons, so let him pardon anyone who is guilty of these crimes, whether there's a reasonable doubt or a case in progress. I don't know why you accepted something when I know none of you are responding. The Minister's children were in the army, Mike's children were serving the army, all radicals were children who came for the army serving the army. You don't want to, because you know you'll have problems the next day. Because tomorrow, everyone you've freed by law, they're doing a new crime, or they're repeating a crime. It may even be a difficult circumstance, right, Minister, under certain conditions. By amnesting these crimes, none of them freed themselves from the obligation to serve the military unless they crossed that age line when there was no longer an obligation to serve the army. I ask the question – then what do we bring? Are we passing a regulation because of some who are on the border, 35 years old, so they should return from abroad as worthy citizens, as their kind of folk heroes, who in their biography will have no information that they are 10 or 15 years old, can't be 15, but may be, avoiding military service. And every one of them will go forth and say, “You have served the army, and he says, ‘No, I have been abroad.’” So did you serve the army? I didn't. And why didn't you? I'm amnesty. The legal consequence of amnesia is total rehabilitation. It's deleted from the records. If the procedure was in the preparation phase before it was initiated, it was not even suspicious. If a procedure is conducted, everything is suspended, it is a model, clean citizen, subject to the legal presummation of the Rehabilitation of the Criminal Code. He's a model citizen, he can call. He can say tomorrow - how dare you not go to serve the army? See what hypocrisy can come from people who will be freed from military obligations by this law. If you happen to vote this by force with the majority Mr. Shormaz talked about, he mentioned about about 130, I'm not going into it, you need to secure 126 to start working, and then you can vote 62, 64 to vote in the final case. I ask the question - will all those abroad, from the assumption that we have not been deceived by the minister of diaspora, receive new criminal charges if they have not turned 35? Can anyone from the government guarantee us? No offense, Mr. Stojkovic, I don't think you're competent to answer this question. Why? Because you're not calling for military service, you're calling for military cuts. There is now one Zoran Stankovic who did not want to transfer there, to change the SRJ Army Act, to avoid a debate in the Federal Assembly, whose uncle he was with, as he was, who proposed him as an expert, how he proposed himself as an expert, what he was doing there at the Clinical Centre, VMA, etc. That's not the topic here. I'm just asking a question, when this law is passed, clears a number of persons from criminal responsibility, does they, after a month, unless they're 35 years old, will they get criminal charges again? That is, the first call for recruiting and military service, so if they don't respond, they can ask for a continuance. They could have asked for a stay so far, and the democratic power was very much in the mood to postpone it. I have to inform you, the military department has so far delayed the service of military service to people who have met and who have failed to meet the conditions, and even where there has been a complaint of conscience, they have mildly advised young people to go to babysitters, leaf collectors, Green or theater. They were able to meet their military obligations in theater, kindergarten, gynecology, wherever they wanted. I just remind you that two years ago, television reports were on the subject of how "in" was to serve an army in a civilian, in a theater, so they boasted anti-straight, you know, it was all fun and interesting. Why am I saying this? Whoever has a criminal record because he committed one of these crimes under Article 1, could easily rule out his criminal responsibility if he reported to the military department – I want to serve the army in the City Greens. The military wouldn't insist on criminal charges, not insisting on proceedings. This is about 2,500 DS deserters. As we go and analyze the order of the member by member, the spiders, the dust, gets naked and sees what the background of all this is. So tie the cat to the tail what the minister of diaspora told you. It's just a prank and a simple excuse. The point is to devalue the idea of serving a military term. Whose interest is that? It's the interest of the ally of that unfortunate Shormaz. He says – Serbia must have allies. Where does he find them? He finds them with those he couldn't hit with his artillery fire.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25325	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25326	Since he couldn't hit them, he says, "Let's be friends with them."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25327	Thank you very much. The People's MP Rajko Baralic also appears for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25328	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, in this argument offered by counterpart Krasic, it makes sense that he said that citizens are being brought into an unequal position before the law. If you really get amnesty one day, and the next day you don't have any protection available, the state already has an instrument to recharge you on the same basis, then it's a complicated story. We talked about it a little while ago. In one thing, Mr. Krasic is wrong. It's not that, Mr. Krassic, the DS deserters, they used to be. The SPO counts that it will be their voters, which is why the law is being written and is therefore being passed. Minister Vukcevic, and I'm sorry he's not here, I apologize to you, Mr Stojkovic, I couldn't say that for Mr Vukcevic, I'm sorry he's not here to hear this. It's an account with no innkeepers. You won't vote for anyone. They only vote for themselves. They vote for themselves in such a way that they never appear in the state when the state asks them to, but only appear when it suits them. That's not normal. This country is a country of the same, and hopefully a country, not flaunting those in the diaspora why they didn't want to serve the army for these or those reasons, we've already absorbed it. I'm just saying, this here is one of the ways to send a clear message that the country's security and national substance is being threatened, to eliminate one of the most important elements of the defence, and that's the element of deterrent. That it is granted to those who think that the state is just what they expect it to be, and that it is not what they owe to the state and country, both country and country, however, it is not the same, but it is put here in that context. Unfortunately, our defence minister is otherwise a forensics officer, which is not normal either, as it is not normal to have been on the board of directors of Karic's company the same day he became defence minister. I will complete this address by quoting Nusic, it is very current, unfortunately, every day: "In Serbia, opportunities are such, the glory of the grandmothers, despise heroes. Serbian children, what you learn, you learn from this lesson, not to waste your strength for nothing, but also to become a grandmother." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25329	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25330	Article 7. The bill reads: "According to the solution to the application of the amnesty, the prosecutor, the defendant and his defender, the convicted and the person empowered to make an appeal in favour of the defendant's statement if it submitted the application. The complaint referred to in Article 1 shall not retain the execution of the solution." In several variants, this formal-legal amnesty applies: if no procedure is initiated, if the person is in custody, and the procedure is ongoing or if the person is in detention. As this bill is unwritten, it is applied by official duty, and given the intensity that is being publicly pushed, and about this is said: we do not need an army, and if we need anything, we will make affairs, and the affairs are desirable for the military to be dispersed. To what level? To the level that they have concluded, or told us, by applying international standards, some Zoran Dragisic, some Bojan, don't know either, and I know that he served only later. All sorts of experts who have nothing to do with the military. It is very important that they are close to the Atlantic Alliance in Serbia. The beginner was that disabled pensioner, the military face Veljko Kadjevic, not the Kadjevic, you know the ministers, what he stopped, information about the gunmen in Slovenia. On that day, he received information that the gunmen were soldiers in Slovenia and said: Serbian public must not be informed that their children were shot there, because Serbs will go crazy. It's been hidden for years, the film existed two days later, bunkered, ask Natasa Kandic, she knows it all well, and these other spies know everything well. Now, let me ask you, when are you going to press charges against Veljko Kadjevic, the old man? You can't answer me that you're not a prosecutor; he sold an apartment in Iraq, so he bought a smaller one for one of his wives and fled there to train partisan units in the fight against guerrillas. We need to know everything, so let's tell you what's going on. That disabled pensioner Veljko Kadjevic attacked one of our own, I don't know if Verica or Natasha, who called him, and then wrote a letter and confessed to everything the women said about him. There is another Atlantic alliance, that is, the same one, but it is run by others who are also leading human policy in the Yugoslav Army, that is, Serbia-Montenegro. What's this Stankovic up to? He's not wondering about anything, he's wondering about as much as Natasa Kandic tells him. You see the man, but the head of Natasha Kandić, the attitudes of Natasha Kandić, is clearly clear to all. And being an uncle to someone from your party is his biggest commercial to be pushed here, but it doesn't matter, it's known, you'll be held accountable for it, objectively, not individually, but your party, it's your human potential, it's your choice and what to do to you. It was similar with Davinic, an expert on disarmament, came to disarm our army, and he did so with whom, in a coalition with the Youth, and they argue, and they do not fight, and here, and there, only to make noises. A little more popularity has SPC, the military has lost popularity and now that you give this amnesty, people will applaud you. Few who will be able to understand what we're saying - what the state is, why it needs an army, why the Netherlands makes a new army of 60,000 soldiers, and it's a small state. As these other countries around us nurture their army, strengthen the battle closure of some new strategies, a new technique, and it is important for us – the bald Dragisic comes out and says: 0.4% should have and there are no security risks. He says -- there's a NATO pact, I can read you a report on what's going on in Kosovo and Metohija, what's being prepared for what they say is Presevo Koolin. Ask some questions with your parents, and you will find out what is being prepared from May to July of the month in the land zone, etc., and what is before the elections for Montenegro. Ask around, what's going on. MI6 has planned everything very well and the DND and this is all on the trail of their policy. This isn't what Zoran Stankovic made up, he can't make this up, he knows that if something like this went wrong, maybe it wouldn't have gone too well. But you keep insisting on this, because there's a warrant, it has to be done, so Junior's going to say: we have problems, we can't finance material, technical and other military transformations, so we need this, so we need it, now they're going to sell out your assets for what they're doing, so they're going to come here and they're going to go there. I am merely informing the public that it is known that the government knows very well what is being prepared, very well knows that this law does not address the issue of criminal responsibility of these people, this question will be reopened. Why is there no courage and strength to change the SRJ Army Act, think about what other dirty jobs should be done, how they still need to be washed, clear our citizens' brains to unwittingly applaud something that is essential to them. That's what's going on with us, and it's been a long time. Of course, some parents won't like this discussion, they'll say, "What are these radicals saying, why is my child going there to starve, there's no water, there's no water?" We have a solution for that, too. A week ago, we said - every family is exempt from taxes during the year when the child is on military service, and why, because no parent will send a child without giving a decent allowance, not to help, etc., at least these people who are a little older and who still care about Serbia, to the state, to fulfill their obligations to their country and it is an honor for them to have their son in the army. You know, now I'm very uncomfortable with making comparisons with France, Israel, Russia, Greece, Turkey, some other countries, but what you're doing with us doesn't exist at all in these countries that I mentioned. Can anyone imagine what happened in Israel if someone didn't want to join the army? Come on, please, you big Democrats who have been in the Assembly for years, some of you before the burning, tell me what would have happened in Israel if someone didn't want to serve the army, let them come here and tell me, I'll end up if I have to before – Krasic is wrong! In Israel, if he doesn't take the gun and respond to a military call, he gets a reward, a reward -- a 200-square house, or maybe he's going to jail? You know, in Israel when they miss something on the plane, they call America, and their soldiers come from America. In Greece, as the military is served; there is a commitment in Turkey, and here a civil protection dean appears, a story by a poor man with that great title, taught there, who knows where he studied, because he did not learn elementaryly. I was watching a show the other day, the one that lazanski skips them with regular sentences, shows that those titles are no good, civil protection college dean of the Civil Protection Faculty talks about percentages, security risks, and we don't fly planes. He didn't say at any time - the state should separate. Let me tell you something, let God live up to that Alosha Milenkovic on BK, which leads to "There can be only one", every honor, normal children participate in the show, it's competing, it's seen – the normal army, last year it was a normal gendarme, it raises patriotism, it raises the will of the future. People's heroes are these kids who enroll the Military Academy. After these laws of yours, how can academics think about the army? They ask the question: Wait, what did I sign up for, which academy did I sign up for? We've got one of the very good academys, and someone's trying to tear it apart. That's what you do with this law. I don't want to talk about your complaints, your prosecutors, how they can complain, who made a mistake in applying this law, it's a prank. This is a big hoax to the Serbian people and to all citizens of Serbia. When I say -- the Serbian people, I mean in a populist, not ethnic sense, because everyone here is a Serb, by citizenship and belonging, I don't get into what national group they belong to, but all citizens will imagine themselves after laws like this, what to do, what to do by a man who loves this country, and he's a member of another people. Look at these people from Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad, Subotica, the response is fantastic in Subotica, greater than the average in Serbia. What can that man interpret after this, because he says, "I have a state that doesn't know what he wants." Why do you deny the right of someone to defend their country and to know that the one next to it is also defending the state? Now he needs to think about whether he's someone who washes diapers, because you never know here. The concept of the Vatican, Austria and the English Intelligence Service, and in the projection of the Royal Institute for International Policy, is Serbia within the borders of the Belgrade Pashalu. Please. Now somebody's gonna say you're a fan of conspiracy theory. I'm not a fan of conspiracy theory, but everything that's been said, that's how it happened. And the Pope confessed to Croatia and Slovenia, the Americans first recognized Bosnia and Herzegovina, helped terrorists, so terrorists became folk heroes. It's a conspiracy theory. Whoever announced it was going to happen, was disaved by it, said: "You put on a movie, you read some books there, conspiracy theory, geopoliticals." Well, come on, throw it aside, and how exactly did that happen? So by denying the conspiracy theory, anyone can tell you what's going to happen and how in public they're going to break this law. Here, my son's been recruited, now a little lame, personally, applied for a special unit. What do I tell my son tonight when I get home? Darling son, don't go to the army. Why? Well, Uncle Zoran's gonna pass some amnesty law again, so, well, Stankovic, Stojkovic doesn't matter. What are we gonna do? Smile, but it's not for laughs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25331	They're different. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. A representative of the Government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Petar Jojic has submitted an amendment to Article 8, of course all our amendments are identical. We have already explained that the amendments that we propose to delete certain members of the law show our attitude towards this bill, but I want to remind the public of Article 1 of this law, which is the essence. It is that Article 1 states: "Amnesty is given to persons who, from 7 October 2000 to the day of entry into force of this law, have committed, or who are found to have committed crimes: the refusal to receive and use the weapons referred to in Article 202, not to give up the call and avoidance of the military service provided for in Article 214, the avoidance of military service by incapacitation or deception from Article 215 and the arbitrary distance or escape from the Yugoslav Army from Article 217, prescribed by the basic criminal law. The amnesty of the person referred to in Article 1 shall include the release from prosecution, the release from the execution of the sentence and the erasure of the conviction." Why did I read this article? Let me remind the public once again that you are, in fact, amnesting the perpetrators of the crime by this bill. Because you clearly wrote that four members of the criminal law were violated here. So, if you decided to amnesty 2,500 people, you wrote in an explanation: "Since 7 October 2000, about 2,500 criminal charges have been filed by the military in connection with the crimes for which amnesty is proposed. Since there have been significant changes (you say in reason) of social circumstances in connection with the enforcement of military obligations, it is proposed that the adoption of an amnesty law be freed from further prosecution by persons who are being prosecuted for certain crimes against the military." You are really interested in this conclusion: "Because there has been a significant change in social circumstances." Well, if there have been these significant changes, you assume in a positive sense, and of course we Serbian radicals claim that there has been a change, but in a negative sense. But if there have really been some positive changes as you think, then why do 2,500 young people who do not want to serve the army appear? What are they unhappy with now? Come on, say, you have an explanation that dissatisfied those who didn't join the army until October 5, 2000, which makes you unhappy with these guys who don't want to join the army now that they have such democratic authority, Minister, what's bothering them now? No danger threatens them, prosperity, peace, no threats within the state or around the state, I really don't understand what the problem is, you even let them wash diapers instead of guns. All possible blessings and yet you have 2,500 young men who do not wish to serve in such a government. I don't believe that these are young men who have a negative attitude towards both the state and the military, on the contrary, I think that by not giving up a military call they show their negative attitude towards such a bad authority, and especially towards a military summit that is traitorous and harmful from the time he was first, so on. Democratic military minister became Boris Tadic, and so on. Of course, I will remind you that at a time when Boris Tadic was a minister, there was talk in these military circles that wherever he went to military institutions, only some English-speaking people were heard, the minority Serbian language could not be heard in the military. It is truly amazing, but many things were clarified when almost, during the testimony in this criminal trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, one of the members of the "earth clan" said that the "earth clan" had prepared Boris Tadic for his minister, after the charges they had and under which this criminal procedure was conducted, that I am now not talking too much about it, because it is not a topic of course. And then here one MP here today said that there are no more armed people in the world, as if here we insist on it, doesn't understand what the armed people mean, we're talking about the military, we're not talking about territorial defense. We're talking, therefore, about the SCG Army, about the need for the SCG military to exist, because every normal state in the world has its own army and should have it. So I ask, if you don't want an army at all and if you're destroying it, how do you destroy it, then how do you advocate joining NATO? Who you're going to introduce to NATO if you don't have an army. You seem to only plan that part of the army you're going to train to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan to achieve your intention to send our boys there to die in battle with patriots defending their own from America and their aggression. Of course, we've always said we're against it, we're still and we'll always be against it. But another thesis, mentioned by Mr Krasic, is interesting. It was almost on TV and that so-called. A military analyst, Dragisic, says there are no security risks in Serbia and I guess that's why we shouldn't have an army. Now, if there's someone who dares to say that and if any of you, especially someone in power, can say that and say that, indeed, it's an honor to him. Then, I must remind such optimists of what we were talking about yesterday, which is, let's say, the fact that the municipality manager from the Shop, Jovica Mihajlovic, announced that a referendum for the separation of the Shop from Serbia and the accession of neighbouring Macedonia will soon be launched, unless the state quickly resolves the bag and this area under emergency assistance with two million euros. Jovica Mihajlovic, the municipal manager, is a member of the Democratic Party, or the Democratic Party exercises power in the Shop. After this, Boris Tadic, as party president, was at the Shop and supported such actions by his members in the Shop. If this isn't a threat to the country's safety, then I really don't know what it is. What's also very scary, and what happened these days, three or four days ago, is when temporary measures were imposed in the municipality of Novi Pazar. It is amazing that Vojislav Kostunica and his government, in order to maintain a few more days or months in power, accepted a forced administration to prevent Sulajman Ugljanin's shift, which was obvious, in a referendum that was to take place. I must remind you that Suleyman Ugljanin has openly advocated and advocated... I don't want to get into what the paper says, about about 12 billion or some crime, that's something less important than his political statements about a single Sandzak, and he meant the Raska area he wants to separate from Serbia. So there are many dangers within Serbia. Unfortunately, this is still a very painful and ravishing situation in the area. It is not a good relationship for you, especially when Minister Stojkovic here explained this law on amnesty and the one we talked about earlier this afternoon, he said it was acts of mercy from the authorities. What kind of act of mercy does it take to pass a law in order to amnesty a number of people? I'll remind you that Vojislav Kostunica has released a group of terrorists and Fjore Brovina from prison. He did it outside the law, so he didn't miss anything. You have a good thing before this law is passed, that the Supreme Court, I'm prepared to argue, willfully miss the deadline for a decision on appeal, then let the group of sharps go again, so now they can't find them, because they, of course, went straight to Kosovo, so they'll be ready to fight again against every Serb who shows up there. So you have ways and you had a way to amnesty the ones you wanted to amnesty. Boris Tadic could have done the same thing, to keep what he probably promised that "earth clan" that he planned for his minister, which explains how this main tycoon of his, Gilas, that kind of money. It's obvious this connection, but it's another topic. I will say another concrete legal sentence relating to Article 8 to which this amendment has been submitted. You say, "If the person concerned with a solution to the application of the amnesty referred to in Article 1 of this Act is in custody or in the maintenance of the prison sentence, the court will decide to release him immediately." My question to the absent minister is – what if that person who is released in front of the prison waits for a military caller with a call, because he has not yet run out of time that the Army Law should pass, a certain age, to be freed from the army? Is he gonna come back right now or are they gonna let him go anyway, and then wait for some new amnesty, some new law on amnesty? Even if we accept this idea, and we do not accept it, then this Article 8 in that case could not survive in this way, or could not survive in Article 1 who said that amnesty is committed on persons who from 7 October 2000 to the day of entry into force of this law have committed these four crimes. So, not only is the concept of the law not acceptable to the SRS, but also purely formal, legal, the law is very bad, inapplicable, and the manner of this government is to bring inapplicable laws. We will again have amendments and additions to this law, because it is something that is common when it comes to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Mr. President, it's a good thing you're here. I don't know who you're going to ask, but since this law here represents Zoran Stojkovic, and I know there is no information about the question I want to ask, I ask that you and Minister Stojkovic answer me a parliamentary question – where, in which army and when served the army son of the President of the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro Zoran Shami?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25333	As you know, it will be recorded as a parliamentary issue and will be forwarded to the competent ministry. MP Rajko Baralic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25334	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I'm about to say is compatible with the argument Mrs. Verica Radeta made here, and it's about this member. The law is a direct concession to the Adventist Church. Adventist church, known as the "sabotage church", according to the Canon of Rene White, the most important canon, some refer to food, orders its supporters, i.e. commits them not to receive weapons in peace and war. The Adventist Church has had special tasks in some of the countries in the past 30 years, and among them were SFRY, later this country. Through the centre of Zagreb, through Mačva, now in Banat and Belgrade, for years this phenomenon that I'm talking about has been implemented in an extremely detailed way. One of the concessions the state has made is that a civil military deadline can be served on the basis of a complaint. Now we have a new possibility – a complete amnesty for all those who, for reasons that are not personal, are religious, and we will talk about it when we discuss the Law on Religious Communities, if it is not withdrawn, and I think it will, I have such information. This would not be the first time we have made concessions to those who, with all due respect for personal rights, the right to religion and everything that, which means for members of this adventivist church, can be of importance. In that sense, we should say quite plainly that pressure is being placed on our country from different centers and that, unfortunately, these pressures are incomprehensible in ways that are, at the very least, incomprehensible to the greatest number of members of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25335	Any other parliamentary group on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Stojkovic, to explain to us MPs, but also to the citizens of Serbia when erasing the criminal record? You commit a car accident, of course there's a trial, you make an accident, there's a trial, you're charged, you've paid the fine or you've served. How many years after that it takes to get that sentence removed from your criminal record? The minister will answer that. You here dump everyone, because Article 9 says, "I will read the sentence from the criminal record of the crime in Article 1 of this Act (I will read Article 1.) shall be carried out under official duty by the authority keeping the criminal record, within three days of the date of entry into force of this law. The removal of the sentence referred to in Article 1 will also be carried out at the request of a person who can apply for amnesty under this law." A man commits a traffic violation, not to go to any other part, and remains a few years in his criminal record that on that day and injures the pedestrian, however, it does not apply to everyone; there is your former minister of justice, your predecessor Mr. Stojkovic, angered at the neighbor, took an official car, still had the right to that car, went to reverse, ran down his neighbor, broke his leg; fought in Obrenovac around the border, and not today's trial ended, and the question is when will it end. This won't work for him. You will not condemn him, let alone delete it from the record, because if you want to condemn him, all NGOs, all women in black, red, colorful, all Natasha Kandić, Sonja Biserko, Ceda Jovanovici, all Bebe Popovići etc. will rise. in defense. They run our judiciary. Of course, there's this one who blows balloons when someone dies, and he's going to rent balloons at funerals! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you're turning a serious crime into something that is, by the way, irrelevant. Article 1 says - amnesty is given to persons who have refused to accept arms under Article 202 since 7 October; they have not responded to the call and have avoided military service under Article 214; avoiding military service by incapacitating, however, there is no such, probably no one has hurt themselves to avoid military service; or by deception. He's been with them since October 7th. And the arbitrary distance and escape from the Yugoslav Army, even if the authorities were able to hire him, to bring him in, after three times he had not received the call, so he fled, fled across the border, instead of punishing the police who let him go without a passport or with a forged passport to go across the border, you release him with a heavy criminal act, amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the smartest thing would otherwise be to have a smart minister, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic, withdraw this law from the procedure. I know he can't, I know he got a warrant from those who were above him in the hierarchical structure, and they got a warrant from those who were above them. However, those who gave his superiors a warrant, not from Serbia, are in some other alliances -- the Atlantic, NATO, some hat tailors and underpants to the Serb people. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25337	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. On the same amendment, it is the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25338	If an amnesty were to cover other crimes, then the situation with the application of Article 9 would not only be pointless, it would mean the practical execution of the crime. Now let me explain. In 1995, amnesty was performed for the same crimes. If the person was then 20 years old and refused military service in 19 years, the amnesty was covered in late 1995, or early 1996, but for the period – December 1995. If the person continued to refuse to serve or perform any of these acts, then he experienced a new amnesty stretching to his new crime from 1996 to 2001 in January 2001. If that face, after that amnesty, responds again to military service, it is now the third time amnesty. I'm talking about something that's theoretically possible. If he was 19 in 1995, he was practically involved in third amnesty, and he had twice been sentenced. Now, for the third time, he's been convicted, on official duty. Unfortunately, according to our regulations, it is weak and that you are getting that form of rehabilitation, that the conviction is deleted from the criminal record; it always remains and is always available to the court and the public prosecutor for every new crime. She's being erased for public reasons, but she stays for the individual, stays as his stamp. To take advantage of these two seconds left, I call on the citizens of Serbia to, independently of this demeaning regulation concerning our army, their children's food and send to the army to protest this government and those of their employers, and in a sign of great respect and love for their country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25339	Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25340	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS, both in principle and in amendments, have said a lot about this law on amnesty, as well as the previous law that was a declarative character. As a military official, a military elder in reserve, when we talk about such laws, I am struck at the heart and bottom of my soul – is it possible that there will be a government that will one day prevent Serb children, Serbian soldiers from serving the army. As you started, it seems to be expecting us, as the minister announced – in 2010. When you enter the Partnership for Peace, when someone gives you money for a professional army, it will be mercenaries who will serve at least Serbia and the Serbian people, but those who pay them. For this reason, I would like to point out, since this law is related to the period since 7 October 2000, it means two days after that quasi-revolution you've carried out here in Belgrade, destroying and burning everything in front of you, that from that day on you want to amnesty of soldiers who didn't want to respond to obligations, as predicted by the Military Obligation Act. With the arrival of DOS, "dosmania", from Boris Tadic, as army minister to Stankovic, you have succeeded in destroying the military, military doctrine, simply killing the national and freedomous pride of Serbs, destroying the Serb soul. By these laws you destroy the Serbian soul. In addition to destroying everything on the economic plan, the social, cultural, the economy, the army remains to be finished and destroyed. I don't know what generations will remember you by. Perhaps your children are watching this assembly too, what they expect, do they hope to be protected tomorrow by someone else or will the state of Serbia be protected by a Serb soldier? I am taking this opportunity to ask the question in favour of Minister Stojkovic, as the people understand us, and by the function he performs, in terms of justice and law, on the basis of which legal basis and under what law did the Serbian Government impose a forced administration in Novi Pazar? As a Serb from that region, I don't define myself for either side, or Rasim, or Suljina, or Ferzia, I know that they are like-minded, I know that they wrote a Memorandum of the Muslim Bosnian Council, where Sandzak is supposed to be a comprehensive, independent, autonomous, special status, all the way to the state. I don't interfere with their accounts at all, but is it possible that such a hasty decision at this time, when a referendum is being prepared in Montenegro, is being made by the Serbian government and thus the area becomes unstable. You heard for sure, starting with cocktails, tonight a bomb was dropped on the municipality of Novi Pazar. The question is how will it be further reflected there, in the environment where I live, I think the very bad and worst solution is that it can be transmitted and affected by the destabilising of the entire area, especially the Serb people who are there in the minority, especially in Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica. I want Mr. Stojkovic to explain to us what the leads are. Is it possible that because of the two MPs who make up the majority here in the Assembly, as the people now say, in our area neither Kostunica nor Labus, Tadic, nor anyone who simply rules Serbia right now is ruled by Sulejman Ugljanin, Bajram Omeragic, Esad Djudjevic and Velimir Ilic, who joins them and immediately in those critical places, where the recall of the president or the disbandment of the municipality is called off, is placed on one of these sides. He immediately arrived two days ago to visit some kind of rink in the area. Normally, he promised money for these basic disasters and rinks, but I don't know how much he's gonna charge for the New Market Assembly skating, and who's he gonna charge from? He also promised the airport, Mr Krasic, near Novi Pazar, almost at the heart of the Raška region, the highway, everything, but I think, as a man, that such decisions as are drawn by the Serbian government are illegal and without any resistance. If these two MPs who make up the majority in this parliament are urged that a budget has been illegally passed in the municipality of Novi Pazar, then for God's sake, it was adopted in the same way last year, and the Serbian Supreme Court has confirmed it, and here it has now been, since Bajram Omeragic replaced Mezu Omerovic, and that Esad Djudjevic replaced Ljiljana Nestorovic in this assembly. Now it's illegal. It's really legal absurd, and I think that you, Mr. Minister, should be doing this to a troubled public and everything that's going on publicly to give your opinion, what is it, in fact, that's shaking right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25341	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25342	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, my opinion is that the arguments of the SRS parliamentary group that have been made to this law are entirely acceptable to you and that you essentially agree with all these arguments, but that you are powerless, because as a hot potato, this law is given to you. Mr Krasic explained this nicely, given that this is the jurisdiction of the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly, but that because of the possible complications and inconveniences that would be caused by this law, it was easier to discuss it here and we accepted it. I don't think we'll be proud of this law or the consequences this law will cause. Of course, when we talk about any law, we have to keep in mind the environment in which it is brought. We know how our army has been collapsing since 2000, and I wouldn't have personally tied it to the post of defence minister, although, of course, they weren't randomly elected to these functions. But what particularly demoted young people to respond to an invitation to serve Serbia-Montenegro's army is not said by chance to go to the military -- military service. This implies a moral act where a man repays his country, serves his country, and that is where this appropriate word is used for such a thing. The fact that our soldiers were killed in barracks or in the area around the barracks while they were on military duty, and that the state had not placed itself adequately and had not found those who carried out these crimes, i.e. They haven't found the culprit, they're bringing people into a dilemma whether it's wise to send their son into the army, if there's a chance that something like that might happen to him. It's absolutely, as a mother and as a man, I can accept and understand. On the other hand, the state does nothing to restore the trust of young people and even citizens in this very important institution. She's not the only one we're taking down, but she seems to have come to order this gradually, but for years we've finished her completely now and told young people - you don't have to join the army at all. If we remember how all this went, we first made it possible to serve the military deadline, and we had one amnesty or two, as Mr Krasic said, because only in 2000 did we have one, so we allowed civil service of the military deadline and the goal was to enable those who, according to their own personal feelings or belonging to a particular religion, did not want to accept weapons. And then there was abuse of that right. Now that you go to the military department and ask how young people decide to serve the army, whether to put on a uniform or to serve a civilian military term, they will tell you – one to one, and even somewhere more are those who are in a civilian than those who are in uniform. So, there is a crisis of state-related identity and obligations for young people to their country, which is not an accident, because such a policy has been going through education for many years and through the media and through the attack of NGOs. But why should we in the Serbian Parliament, who should be responsible and most conscious, contribute to the further collapse of the army? So, the fact is that the state without an instrument of force is gone. By definition, she's gone. She's not without an army. If we're willing to say that we won't have any more states or -- we've armed it for five, ten years, then we can pass a law like this and say: we won't have an army, we don't need an army and we don't have a state. Or we'll find some other instrument of force, I don't know, in the legal theory of state and law, there may be that, but we don't know it yet. Our NATO pact is obviously already in the hall. I can't say - at the door, but he went into the lobby, and the question is, do we need an army in this situation and what kind of situation do we need? It is that we do not have an adequate strategy, as far as the country's defence is concerned, we are not even aware of our position in the world or, if you want me to say, in the Southeast Balkans. We don't know what's coming to us, or we won't say it publicly, although I believe that most of you sitting here know very well what the situation is in Kosovo and Metohija and how all this is happening there, what is the situation in the Raška region and in these three municipalities in southern Serbia, what is expected for us in the spring or during the summer. If we don't have a proper frame, or an adequately trained army, we can't do anything about it. I don't call on or plead that there is a possibility of war conflicts, but the very fact that one state has a trained, disciplined army in some way prevents all those who would possibly have some aspirations for that state. We're destroying military technique, and we're destroying the army, both the people and the military commanders, or the command staff. I am inclined to believe that this is another one of those laws that we have to pass, because it is a NATO pact that requires us, Europe is asking us to move forward to negotiations on entry or into the NATO Pact, which is probably related to each other, or to the EU. The Serbian Radical Party cannot vote for such a law for these essential reasons, but also for those procedural ones, which Mr Krasic has explained very nicely here, and I believe that you, as a lawyer and former judge, agree with him that once an amnesty man can be a soldier again. I don't know if we're going to pass one law of amnesty every year. The fact is, there are people that are already covered by the previous law and now, and probably others that we're going to bring. I don't know why we're letting ourselves and why, besides, we're destroying the legal system. In addition, you can see that we have a bill without the opinion of the parent board. Why is that, I don't know, but I guess the parent board got out of this whole story, too, I mean the Justice Committee. Whether or not Mr Krasic has the conditions for this to be on the agenda at all, the president of the Assembly should take care of it. I believe that there is also a way in our rules of procedure, even though it really shouldn't, if we want to preserve the legal system. What I'm saying is that in voting day, MPs need to show what they think of this not-so-benign issue. I think this is a very important question. I've heard discussions from SPS representatives. It's very easy for this law not to pass. All you have to do is not be in the O.R. or put the cards in, so you don't give the quorum. It's not enough to vote "against." This law cannot come. Therefore, if a man wants to be consistent, aware of the seriousness of the matter that this law treats, he should show himself in the day of voting, without a lot of talking, and not to talk in TV duels about how we were against something, even though we were in the O.R. and gave the quorum to the congregation majority, which clearly no longer exists, we allowed such or many other laws to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25343	Thank you. For the rest of the time, MP Stevica Dedjanski, four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to get back to you to explain a little bit more what we've been trying to explain all day, and the citizens I've spoken to over the past period still think that when we discuss amnesty, we're talking about that period from earlier. So, for those who ran to war, etc. What Mr. Nikolic said, that I understand. Not every man's enough for that, but come on, let me put it that way. First of all, I'd like to explain that you've been looking for amnesty here since October 7, 2000, during what's-his-name. "democratic states," and then it would be better, and it might be clearer for people to call it the law, for those who ran from DOS and to amnesty for it. Every three years there is amnesty, so one classic question – how long does it go? Because the government should be the same for everyone, or not all go to the army of Yugoslavia or all go. It's ugly that this is how it's done and it's not fair to all sorts of people. The worst and the worst are released, and the others who are patriots and who love the state or at least fulfil their duty to the state, even though they may not even agree with it, are now punished by this law. This is a classic attack on the military, an invitation not to serve the blow is also on the state. Foreigners are asking that the state not defend itself and, tras, here's our law on amnesty. If this was only for Divac and for supporting him in Tadic's presidential campaign, then you could have freed him and pitted him, not destroyed the army. Another example I wanted to give, since Mr Krasic said it was a major response to the recruitment in Subotica, I can say that the situation in Vrsac, from which I come, as various people have felt and seen it, began before the recruitment, say 15 days ago, in the high school district to circulate a text message, and that now seems popular, where recruits are called not to serve the army, to sabotage and not to come for recruitment, regardless of the consequences. It said, among other things, in the messages (unfortunately, I don't have one in my phone right now, I deleted them) that there would be no consequences and no one would be punished. After a few years, there'll be amnesty, etc. Defetism is spreading. So, some yellow young man, let me put it this way, sitting in a coffee shop while all the decent people work, sends messages to young men who are honorable, honest and brave. People like him would only give anything to be nice to them. I must mention, in the end, that honor, dignity, pride and patriotism are values that are now being cast. On those words, some people started laughing. That's why I'm asking you to withdraw the law. You know we're right. You just don't want to admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25345	Thank you, too. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end, Mr. Secretary, I am most sincerely sorry that you are sitting here in connection with this law. As far as I'm concerned, you didn't deserve to receive these stings that were sent to you, but that's business. The SPS can't support this law. This would be contrary to the beliefs of each member and sympathiser of the SPS and would be contrary to the SPS programme. That would be contrary to what many Serbian citizens expect from us. There's been enough talk about this. We understand the circumstances that led the government to propose this, and these circumstances cannot be supported and we cannot accept the argument and vote for this law. It would be just like voting for something that is directly contrary to the interests of our families, our loved ones and our companies, if we have them and I don't know what else. We tried here to explain why. I'm not sure this is a smart political move. I think it's a matter of, let me put it in the jargon, about a long-term autogol that can have consequences, real consequences that can't be understood today. It's giving up to those who don't have a sense of responsibility, who in no way see this country as their own, but regardless of the circumstances, they mostly live and work somewhere else, they get their profits, they form families there. Compared to the country that trained them, and according to which they should cultivate the elemental patriotic feelings, this is how they kill something that I don't understand. Now it will be as it must be, a colleague spoke here earlier as a spare elder; a colleague of Veselinovic, there are no spare elders. The mobilization rule only recognises the enforcers of mobilization; the differences between officers who go to work in the barracks and those who are only when they need it is that they do not receive wages and go to work. Command duties have exactly the same, regardless of whether they are active officers or whether it becomes a result of training in the various schools of regular officers in this country for pride. Some of these schools, such as the school in Bilja, are one of the most recognised schools outside the borders of this country. It's not that story anymore. Patriotism and responsibility don't live here anymore. Here there is a precipice for those who want to see us even smaller than we are and who want to do with us what is their interest, the opposite interest of the citizens of Serbia. I can never vote for such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25347	Do any other MPs want a word? Here you go, Mr. Penezie. I thought you were joking.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25348	I think I'm going to have a bit of a privilege to extend, because it's just been cut off. So, as an educator, I'll only go to the opening and conclusion, because time is limited. In the opening part, I can only tell you that this reminds me of the Regulation on the import of secondhand cars. So, occasionally we make a regulation, and when one settles, then the regulation is lifted and no longer valid. In the final part, what is very important, what I was going to say, is that just when this law was in my hands, my friend's son, on the proposal of his father, a great patriot, he went himself to sign up to serve a military deadline and almost became a psychiatric case, to meet the consulate and see if that boy was normal. He came alone to sign up to serve the army, because the pride of the parents was above all else, that the son must serve the army, because he is running out of time, because he is studying. So, just to tell you that the secret, in the end, is not a secret to everything, is the son of a father who is a Serbian radical, and the son is also a Serbian radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25349	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. A representative of the government, at a session of the National Assembly, informed that he did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee has proposed that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Milan Škrbić, and MP Milan Veselinović, if I checked the biography correctly, does not have to worry, is no longer a military official, has turned 50, but let it be checked.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment to Article 11. It's an amnesty bill, but he's not here right now. I'll try to say something that we haven't said so far, I won't be long, just within the time allowed, and I'll rely on Mr. Krasic's presentation so far, for those who haven't been in the O.R., and I'll read it the way everyone should read it when it comes out to explain the amendment, because of Mr. Shormaz. On the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mircic, submitted an amendment to the Amnesty Act on Article 11. Mr. Shormaz was angry about why we Serbian radicals go out, why we talk and explain it. He came in like a Fury, said what he wanted and what he didn't want and just walked away at the same time. I don't know what that meant to him, but I didn't get out of the O.R. for an hour and a half, so I answered, I just didn't realize what he was going to say, he didn't know, he said what he didn't mean, he just came out, tried to act normal, but okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25351	Mr. Squirt, I warn you, I don't expect you to express yourself like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25352	So the proposal is to delete article 11. As explained in the amendment, this amendment is said to be the result of previous amendments. In Article 1, Mr Krasic also put the amendment to be deleted, of course all our amendments were so, because we will not vote for this law. Amnesty is generally given after armed conflicts, after war and a final truce. After October 7, 2000 in Serbia, democracy flourished rapidly, I repeat, to hear, for those who did not hear it. So military service is a legitimate obligation, and failure to comply is a criminal act, so the bill cannot determine what a legitimate change of social circumstances we are talking about here. The amnesty period also covers the period until 1995, off the record, then 1995-2002, and now this law. This law, if adopted, gives us a deadly or final blow to our army. We know why, as Shormaz said, those who rule now must adopt this law. He came in and said that surely, when the day is due to vote, the parliamentary majority will have 130 MPs, which is a little more than the other day when you barely got together. That's good, he's working on it, probably right now. Two and a half thousand young people fled to avoid military service, and what about civil service, because it's also a kind of amnesty. I'll give you a few examples, which is why I came out the most. The municipality I come from, the Apatin municipality, is currently threatened by floods. On Saturdays and Sundays, no one slept, we were all at one point and another, and together there was the army, the one we had. Another example, three weeks ago, as president of the Apatin municipality, I attended the oath of once the largest garrison in that great Yugoslavia, it's the Sombor garrison so-called. "Blues." I came out to greet those young people in front of the community and their parents, brothers, relatives, girls who came to my astonishment, on that big airport runway of Sombor garrison, I saw only 280 soldiers. Many of you here served a military deadline, as far as I could find out, at that very airport. There used to be 7,000 soldiers there. Three weeks ago, the oath was only 280. I went out and thanked these guys and the parents who raised those kids to come and serve a military term in uniform. And there's a lot in ours and in your environment of those who serve that civilian military deadline, and we've mentioned where everything isn't. No one answered the call to come and carry the sacks, we only threw 3,100 sacks on one cup to keep the Danube from getting through three days ago. That's one example. I'll give you another example from Apatino and that Slovenia that we often mentioned. The first victim of that war and the first victim of the JNA army was young Lieutenant Bubalo of the Apache. No one's ever talked about it before. He was a son of an only child. We've erected a monument and a mark, and we're the only ones in the local administration who mentioned it, and their parents happen to be neighbors, who are no longer alive. But I must say, the following -- the response to mobilization, that honorary duty of every citizen, in the municipality from which I come, and we are all tied to Krajina, was 110%, which means that everyone who received the call for mobilization, responded, and another 10% more people, voluntarily, who applied to the units, not to talk about volunteers of the SRS who were many and who gave their lives honorably and honestly for the defence of the country. That's why this law is embarrassing. I'm sure it won't pass, Mr. Minister. I'm sure the SPS, um, won't vote, won't even be here in the O.R. when the law comes. It won't pass, and maybe we'll wait some other time to do something more concrete on this matter. Respected Serbian citizens know it, they observe it, they watch it, and they will give their judgment, of course, but here, I don't know how much time I have left to leave time for Mr Krasic to give the final word, as an authorised representative on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25353	The minister has the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25354	Absolutely, Mr. President, I thought... Dr. Vojislav Seselj said in time that a people who cannot appreciate their history and tradition were doomed to ruin and disappear. If we do not guard and cherish the tradition of our ancestors, fathers, grandparents, we will perish as a people. This is what Serbian citizens know very well and will give their own court on both this law and many others who have been forced here into the Assembly. I have something else to say, during all these events I'm talking about, the military minister was the current president of Serbia -- Boris Tadic, and he had, I think, a Vuk Jeremic who didn't even serve the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25355	Thank you. Yes, yes, compare the data. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, you've got eight minutes left, I'm in charge of these 30 seconds, don't worry, I was getting into Mr. Skrbić's word, because I was really surprised by the part of the show. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25356	Article 11 states that this law will take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to the National Assembly's synopsis, this should probably take place Tuesday, Monday's adoption will be announced in a hurry, and on Tuesday these folk heroes will be clean both in front of the state and before God and the people. I did not go out because of them because I have a very good opinion about them, for they have not only broken the law by their conduct, but they have betrayed their ancestors and caused great embarrassment to their offspring. But it's theirs, so let them think about it. Those of you who blindly follow the policies of Vojislav Kostunica and the agreements of his coalition partners, I warn that the JNA has long begun to break up. According to some estimates, it was the fourth military force in Europe, well organized, numerically strong, with a very high quality background etc. It was systematically destroyed, even before those events started in 1990 in Slovenia. Just to remind you, Janez Jansa was 4-5 years before armed conflicts occurred, systematically destroying JNA, and if you just go through your memories, you will see that today there is no difference in the behavior of some NGO representatives, especially when you think that the military is controlled by some Hadzic and who knows all the names. They're no different than Jansa. I'm deliberately bringing it up to you, Jansa, because after Jansa, you know what happened to our army. So this is also an announcement of what's going to happen to our army. I have to remind you of the legalists and others who adhere to regulations, laws and morals, and yet the law contains some morals in The Hague since 1993 when it was formally and formed that illegal court, the fifth point of almost all charges against Serbs, is that they were involved in a joint criminal enterprise, and that they were made up of it, so it lists twenty, thirty names and names of our people with titles and functions, and then goes: members of JNA, territorial defenses, etc. In The Hague, JNA is tried, and there is also a Serb soldier from the Balkan wars, First and Second World War. Those who bombed us were very dissatisfied with the fact that there is courage and heroism and that there is a permanent commitment in this people to safeguard their freedom. And because we're like that and we keep our freedom and put it first, we're probably suffering anger from the West and some other space. At the moment the Berlin Wall fell, when the Warsaw Pact broke down, when all normal and reasonable observers realized that the NATO Pact, otherwise formed in Rome in 1949, no longer had reason to exist, because it lost its natural enemy and partner, the NATO pact transformed into something else. In addition to all this military and political and parliamentary dimension, he found his modus vivendi because he staged the collapse of the former SFRY, as well as the bombing in 1999 and allegedly some humanitarian problem in which he had to appear as a "merciful angel" in the form of poor uranium, bombs, beasts and crimes. And of course there is hatred for JNA, the SRJ Army and today, along that line of continuity, the SCG Army. All who come from abroad, from the West, from Brussels, NATO Pact headquarters, the Atlantic Alliance, the civil NGO sector and everyone who boasts about our army and who exposes it to the pillar of shame, are accomplices to Carla del Ponte, Natasha Kandic and all those who hate the Serbian people. That hatred hates our army, too. It counts on a fifth column that can achieve far better results by talking about human rights, democracy and standards than they have achieved in destroying our army through bombs, armed acts and other ways. You follow that path. With this law, you provide evidence, documentation, you write charges against Serbs, against our soldiers who are guilty, such as General Delic, because he successfully opposed NATO's aggression. Since Serbian citizens know very well what kind of government or government this is, from October 5th to October, what is next and what is their ultimate goal, I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose Serbia is the only country whose heart is Serbia; those who hold to their dignity, to their freedom; who are willing to swallow many dumplings – to try to heal their bereaved soul with these knives that have been stuck in Serbian tissue for several years; to proudly send their children into the army and thus show who we are and what we are. Our army is not evil, it is ours, it is fighting for our freedom that we should have, which we need to train to protect our borders, our lives, our property, to protect both Belgrade and Presevo. Those in Belgrade's "round of two" think it's far from Presevo. I will bring you back to what the psychic wolf used when he said -- Serbia defends itself in Belgrade, not Knin. E, his friend, with whom he often exchanged political experiences for two hours, Milan Babic, committed suicide and wrote a suicide note in which he regretted all that he had cheated and lied and cast as a burden on Serbs and the Serbian people. Take care when you vote on this law and the previous one, take care of it. You saw for yourself, when Vidovdan breaks the law, some curse follows. All will be damned to destroy this nation and this country. This has nothing to do with the political attitude, because what you're offering us and it's not a political stance, this is naked treason.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25357	On the same amendment, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25358	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the end of this debate is over, and all the SPS MPs who have spoken these few days, both in principle and in amendments, have said clearly that the SPS cannot and will not support such a law. So there's no dilemma. Mr. Markovic, I have come forward precisely because I feel that we, MPs of the SPS, are being slightly exposed these days to inappropriate, I would also say to a non-legal special war or psychological pressure from some of our colleagues. I'll try to explain it. Mr. Markovic just threw it to me, so maybe that's a reason for me to explain. This law may not go through in any more ways in the congregation. One is that the government withdraws it, since it was the debate it was; the other is that most votes are not voted; the third is obstruction. If most votes are required not to support this law, then there are more scenarios for that. One of the possible scenarios is that MPs of the SRS and MPs of the DS and the SP in full enter this assembly and, together with the Socialists, vote against the law. Then there's no theoretical possibility of that law being passed. Let's put pressure on the DS and others and make Serbian radicals consistent in their story; join the assembly, put cards, come to the vote of the law, the SPS votes "against", as he said, 22 "against", plus 80 radicals, that's 102, plus 30 Democrats, that's 132. That's the way. Of course, I can't support this law and I won't support it. In our parliamentary group, we will agree on a way not to support it, or in what technical way we will do it. In a way, here to transfer responsibility to the SPS MPs, I don't think it's correct or political, and if you want, it's not collegiate. As you can see, there has been another way of not passing this law. I'm one of those Serbian hosts who was happy to send his son to the soldiers. In September 1998, my son went into the army, when he was the biggest threat of bombings, and returned in September 1999, with the status of a fighter who suffered bombings, etc. It's a big moral dilemma for me here what to do. Do we reward those who have not served the army with this amnesty and who do not want it for five and a half years? What might be more important to me in all this is the question – how to proceed. From 7 October 2000 to today we give amnesty. That means we haven't released the military service obligations of those who haven't done so in the last five years, only those who are too old can't serve the army. What happens if they still don't want to serve the army? Are we going to have amnesty again? For me, that's the problem. I could accept this variant, provided that today someone offered us, among other things, and the law that from that date and that date, and maybe that year, maybe this one, we'd have a professional army, so whoever loves to go ahead, let the army serve. It is professionally allowed, with appropriate receipts, material resources etc. Or that those who, as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia seem to have served with dignity throughout these periods and in all these years, are somehow rewarded. Is there any way? Maybe there is. So, in that variant, I could also talk about that, as a folk MP who is seriously considering any issue, even this question, even though it is not my area, I also vote for such a law. It's just that things have been a little absurd and I don't know why it was necessary. Once again, on our parliamentary group, we will see how technically we will do it, but in any case, our vote for this law is simply not possible to expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25359	Mr. Todorovic, I'm sorry you took it as a throwaway, there was a microphone on, I didn't want to throw it at you. I know it applies to me. He's referring to Mr. Momir Markovic, he's throwing it away? Mr. Markovic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25360	We're going to have to change the president of the assembly, so there aren't so many Markovics, that we know exactly who the presentation of one of the MPs refers to. Mr. Todorovic, it is true that there are three ways not to pass the law, perhaps four: that the minister withdraws the law, that the president of the assembly does not put the law in the procedure, that the majority will be created to vote against the law. Now let's talk about what you're proposing. We have suggested that you do not give the quorum when this law is at the polls and therefore the law falls. What you're proposing, I'm not going to say it's demagogy, but it smells a lot like demagogy. We have 80 MPs, you 22, that's 102. We can't make 126. You know very well that six months of Democrats do not enter the O.R. They're coming to the cashier's, and they're not coming into the O.R. So don't talk about that impossible variant. We will not influence your parliamentary group, you have the right to decide how each parliamentary group decides. When some elections come, then the citizens will say – they decided well, these bad ones, but we leave it for the elections. We only advise you not to allow this country, military, Serbian citizens, together, extremely harmful law. The only way the law doesn't pass is by the one I'm talking about, and hypothetically, there's a possibility that someone from the DS will press and not vote for this law. Don't, please, they've been gone for six months in the O.R., and they won't come that day when they vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25361	We all know that the MPs of this group are very often involved in the work. It's not right. You saw a few days ago, there was even controversy behind the pay phone, extremely incorrectly, the MPs came in and went out. It's not right to call ourselves that way. So it is quite clear – the law will be passed if most of the MPs present, and that there are more than 50% of 250, votes "yes". That's perfectly clear and there's no reason to argue about it. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask: does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25362	I'll be very brief. There were arguments "yes" and "against" the bill's proposal. I just want to point out that there was a mass of things that weren't related to this law. On the other hand, there was a mass of things that spoke of rights, equality and the like. At first, I said that the Law on Amnesty is an act of the grace of the state. This is not about equality or inequality at all. One of the reasons why this law is passed is that under that law, this army operates throughout the territory. A law on amnesty has already been passed in Montenegro in December and part of the recruit has come under the law, not amnesty. As I said at first, both amnesty and pardon are always acts of mercy and talk about equality or not, in a specific case, does not matter. Whether you're amnesty, whether you're pardoning it, it's always about concrete things, because they're concrete crimes. Should I mention that there have been many times, and when there was a choice of president and things like that, to amnesty or pardon people, even for a large number of crimes. The first amnesty was in 1996, and the same would be true of the principle of whether it was equal for everyone. No, because it was an act of mercy. The state estimated that it had more interest to perform amnesty. For these reasons and in this case, it is estimated to be greater benefit than amnesty. Like I said, we have young people who have gone, because they didn't have the right conditions for life here, they didn't have a job, and that's where they started the family, they can work. You have a good number from the diaspora, some are there and born, they want to have ties to this country and apply for military service. They've come into a situation that if they came to serve, they could lose their jobs and de facto endanger their existence there. This country that's already old shouldn't be breaking up with the younger generations we have. Let us accept this law, the benefits of this country will be, be safe, greater than the damage. For these reasons, this law has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25363	Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. I give my word, according to the Rules of Procedure, to the People's Messenger, to the Prophet of the Prophet of Radetha. I thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry it had to happen in this order, so when the speaker, the minister, and then the Rules of Procedure ended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25364	That's exactly why you broke the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. I should say, I understand you, you've been alone all day, though, today Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has been here most of the day to help you, but your problem and your coalition majority have proposed to you for vice presidents people who don't want to help you work, so you probably have a problem sitting around all day, and I can understand that. But what you tried to stop, first Momira Markovic, and then me talking, here, you did it. Of course, the minister left, and I should have said what I wanted to say in the presence of the minister before his closing statement. You tried to tell your colleague, Mr. Jovi Todorovic, that you were throwing away, so you could distract him that Momir Markovic couldn't answer the line, so now you said, when I called in the Rules of Procedure – right, Mr. Minister, do you want to give the final word? So you're telling me that the minister has an advantage, and I'm telling you that the Rules of Procedure are ahead of the minister and ahead of anyone. I called about something else. I came forward because of my colleague Todorovic's remarks, though, now I find it pointless in the absence of Minister Stojkovic to talk about it, but I still have to say that the SRS MPs did not wage any "special war" against SPS MPs, a colleague of Todorovic. We didn't even invite you. However, a colleague Markovic now said, we did not invite you, nor invite you. Of course, you vote on your conscience, you act in this House the way you think you should, as you decide in your parliamentary group, and that is absolutely not the problem of the SRS parliamentary group. At no point have any of us tried to present it that way. For the sake of the Serbian public, we just said that it wasn't enough to just say that you don't like the law and that you're in this room, that you're doing a quorum and that, even though you're against it, the law goes by. Your thesis that there is another variant of how to be against the law, or that the law doesn't pass; that we now pray for DS that hasn't entered the O.R. I don't know how much, and then, you say, to pray for the SPO, and here all day long there's been words about the Minister of the SPO trying to even propose this law. So, Mr. Todorovic, you have tried incorrectly to present our efforts in this House. I promised Mr. Markovic I wouldn't exceed three minutes, so I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25365	Thank you. That was according to the Rules of Procedure, not to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the day of voting on the draft law, in principle, in particular and in general. Mr. Todorovic, please wait until we begin the next item of the agenda, because I owe an explanation. I'm very clear on the Rules of Procedure. I hope you support, based on a decision that was announced here four hours ago, so today we're going to be working up to 20.00 hours that point of the agenda whose search in particular, according to the Rules of Procedure, we start before 18.00 hours. Respecting your willingness, allow me to work two hours longer than planned. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs: Branislav Nedimović, Velimir Simonović, Meho Omerović; together Milan Ninić, Sanja Čeković and Stanja Stevanovic; jointly Branka Bošnjak, Vladimir Homan and Vladimir Milankov; Aleksandar Đorđević, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Miljko Četrović, Milan Stević, Vojislav Milajić, Bozidar Koprivica, Tihomir Đurić, Petar Jojic, Sreto Perić, Nataša Jovanović, Branislav Blažić, Momir Marković, Dragan M. Jovanovic, Rajo Baralić and Milić. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Homan and Vladimir Milankov, in writing, withdrew two amendments to Article 17(1) and Article 17(2) and submitted a new amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law. National MP Vladimir Milankov, at the session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, withdrew amendments he submitted to the members: 8, 9, 11, 12, 18, 20, 22, 29, 36 and 44. It's a bill of law. National MPs Branka Bosnjak and Vladimir Homan, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted to the members: 8, 9, 12, 18, 20, 22, 29, 36, and 44. It's a bill of law. National MP Rajko Baralic withdrew the amendment he submitted to Article 37, which proposed adding a new stance 2 and tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to Article 37. Bills of law, in general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Now the clarification, on several occasions I have tried to explain, join and thank you, as you said, Mrs Radeta, Mrs Pop-Lazic, I will ask her to help me conduct this session a little bit more. Different members are specified when giving a word to whom. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP gets his word when the previous presentation is completed. Also, Article 93 of the 2nd indent says: "The applicant for the act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of motions, gets the word when requested and does not refer to a restriction on the duration of the presentation". On that basis, I was, apparently, incorrect, but I thank you for understanding, so I had to give my first word to the minister, because the previous speaker was the chairman and ended up with the question, "Does the minister want a word? "It's a simple form. Let me explain this to the MPs who are confused with the way we conduct the session in the last 15 minutes. Then a word was given, according to the Rules of Procedure. Although it does not apply to Mrs Radet, but to Mr Krasic, who is the authorised representative of that agenda item, in that sense, if the MP group is mentioned, and in this case is mentioned in your presentation of the SRS parliamentary group, it has therefore responded. I gave my word out of correctness. Also, I can give you my word now for correctness. But believe me, the offensive expressions were not on either side, but on the other hand, but on the different views on how to vote, please, Mr. Todorovic, to give up, if you agree. No, I don't. Here you are, I'm giving you the right to a replica. Then will the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic. Thank you, Mr. Todorovic, for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25366	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get one thing straight. Mrs. Radeta, you know that I am a very correct MP and that indeed no one can attribute inaccuracy to me and that there is an argument for that. Mr Markovic told me it was some kind of demagogy, and now I'm telling you and the citizens of Serbia that when the votes of these parliamentary groups you spoke about are collected, unfortunately the SRS and the SPS have a lack of votes to bring down this law. That's what the fact is. Now I remind you that it is happening that even you as a parliamentary group are launching an initiative, a law or a resolution, so when the day of voting comes to put it on the agenda, you're not all here in the O.R. Here, let's say, the last resolution is this particular example. Of the 80 MPs, you will be sixty-two, three or five, and you expect with the votes of 22 SPS MPs to pass. We come, all 22, sign the initiative you started, you come less than there are, and of course it wasn't possible. That wasn't the case once. Now I won't mind, but simply, when you call me incorrect, then I have to tell you it's still a fact. I don't have any demagogue in my story and I've never had one. So I don't think this is about whether it's demagogy or not, it's simply about the relationship of power in this congregation. There is a majority who will most likely support this law, or there is not enough majority that this law does not pass and that is what is true. Then be consistent to the end. You can't say now that I'm a demagogue, in terms of how Democrats or SPO can come to the assembly, because they'll never come. I don't see the difference between you and them at all, in the voting section, because neither of you participate in any vote. The Democrats are not in the O.R., because they are not physically present they cannot vote, but you are in the O.R., and don't put cards on and don't vote "yes" or "no". For me, it is essentially the same as the Democratic Party's position, when it comes to deciding in this parliament, but not when it comes to discussions. You're taking part in the debate, and I respect that, but when it comes to voting, then you're in the same status, because you don't vote "yes" or "no". If you want correctness, that's what you're talking about, not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25367	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25368	I went out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the president came out, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure was carried out by the President of the National Assembly. Now let me explain to you which member and how. That's the lead member who's talking about him taking care of himself. Aging doesn't mean getting as many years as possible, but worrying. The second is the member who says it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 100. The third member who injured is a member of 104. The president of the National Assembly knows very well that every Tuesday at 6 pm the Committee for Defence of Vojislav Seselj has a meeting, we hear from Vojislav Seselj and agree on how to prepare and assist him in his defence. The same Predrag Markovic whenever a meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesdays extends the session. He didn't do it on Monday, but he continues on Tuesday, because he's in a coalition with Carla del Ponte, who tells him -- he's causing a disturbance there to make the conditions of defence preparation difficult. Smile, you guys. It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it abuses allegedly some of its powers in the Rules of Procedure that it has brought itself, and most of them voted and gave it the exclusive right to assess how long the session of the National Assembly will take, when it will give a break, when it will return. We tolerate it all, but you see, every Tuesday he extends the session and there's a big explanation going on again: it's going to be on the agenda that's in the debate until 20.00 hours, and tomorrow we're going to break up because of these 15-20 amendments. If we don't bring it all in now, it's gonna go bad. It's like something's urgent. If it is so urgent, he could hold sessions in January, February or March, rather than abuse his authority as National Assembly President in a very rude way, because he knows about our obligations and in a coalition with Karl del Ponte and others sees him as making conditions difficult, because he is deeply aware that Vojislav Seselj is there for political reasons, because he was estimated to be elected President of the Republic in the next presidential elections, which the DOS does not like. They'd rather cut their veins than be president of the Republic. I'm saying this more because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm not talking about you because you're hurt by President Markovic's decision, but the public needs to know, this is not a conspiracy theory, but these "infantry" NATO pacts with a last name on it, which achieve far better results than bombers, planes and other things. By the time I got out, just one more sentence. This is about a big misunderstanding. A relationship under some law can be most prominently expressed in one of the possible ways, which is not to enter the O.R. when voting on this bill. Believe me, nothing hurts, we haven't been in the O.R. in months when it's voiced, because DS can turn everything over its media. If any of the MPs of the SRS asked you or suggested that in the voting day you can express your position that these laws are not good by not putting cards and participating at all in the voting process, nothing is offensive. It's a benign political stance that, rest assured, when it comes to these two points of the agenda that we've been considering today, they mean a lot to this people. As far as voters are concerned, let each one take care of his constituents.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25369	I'm not in a position to give you an answer to your said violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I can only say that I agree with you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan M. Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Branislav Nedimovic. The government accepted the amendment, with corrections, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with corrections, without corrections since 5 April 2006, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction of 5 April 2006, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25370	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, on the basis of Article 145. I have submitted an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and to delete Article 8(2). Let me read the explanation, and later I'll comment on something else. The instrument of control of the consistency of the municipal spatial plan with the Law on Planning and Construction and other planning documents adopted by the competent ministry has already been provided in Article 29(6) of the Law, which defined the responsibility of the Commission, which is educated by the minister responsible for spatial planning activities. Also, compliance control has been provided by Article 138 paragraph 1(2) of the Law defining the jurisdiction of the urban inspector to verify whether the plan has been adopted in accordance with the law and the other regulations adopted under the law. It's a very precise explanation. The committee in charge considers that the amendment is legally possible. I propose that the minister accept it and thus become an integral part of this law, because there are problems here, a spatial plan as the most important planning act and the widest for various participants in various procedures is complicated for various reasons. I wouldn't particularly explain it here. So, please, if it is possible to accept, if not, I ask my colleagues to support the amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25371	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25372	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I would only briefly say that this amendment essentially refers to amendments to Article 27, paragraph 1. Since the law already provides for which and what companies produce the planning documentation, we think this change was good. It means to act on the amendment's proposal, since it's just a alignment with the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25373	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan, as well as MP Meho Omerović, together submitted. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25374	Here's a few more words about this amendment of ours. We think that the proposed amendments to the existing law introduce parcels in the process of drawing up the planning documentation. We think it's something that's not good. So, removing the plot plan, as an integral part of the urban plan, was meant to create conditions for more efficient planning, so we think that if the plot were to return to the process of drawing up the planning documentation, it would only slow down the design. Basically, we don't think it's something controversial or bad. Given the need for a more efficient adoption of plans, we thought this amendment would bring efficiency to the design of the plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25375	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Nedimovic submitted the amendment, with amendments, which he proposed to add Article 13a after Article 13.The government accepted the amendment, with correction, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with the correction; without correction from 5 April 2006, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with a correction of 5 April 2006 legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) As you can see, the great mix-up of the amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25376	On Article 14, it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25377	What amendment? Alexander Djordjevic or Meho Omerovic? Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The government doesn't accept it either, it's now being declared. Minister, in the report we received from the government, the amendment to Article 14, just to see, it's not accepted. It's not even a dispute. It wasn't even a dispute when you intervened. So, Article 14 of Mehe Omerovic's amendment was not accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan and MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25378	I'm not answering the amendment, but I want to say that there are two amendments to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25379	Yeah, we're done with both of us on Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25380	So two amendments to 17. Have they both been accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25381	Both.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25382	So, on Article 17, there are amendments to the first and second points of view. Okay, just formally to know. Both amendments have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25383	Both. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25384	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that today we are talking about details of the draft law on planning and construction, and this reminds me because it is quite amazing, firstly, that MPs from the congregation's majority have submitted such a large number of amendments, and then there is obviously some kind of misunderstanding between the government and the MPs and that they are just passing through these amendments, as if they were joking when they were tolerated them. It only speaks of how unserious the government of the Republic of Serbia's proposal to intervene in this way on this law. Please, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, remove the MP and not interfere with the minister, because I want the minister to listen to me and I know that he wants to listen to me. Minister, nothing's funny! The situation in Serbia today, especially what is in your jurisdiction, and you know how funny it is. It's inadmissible and I won't let you laugh when I speak. You can laugh, of course, because you don't know anything else, but I won't let the minister laugh. So, Minister Velimir Ilic, do you know what your function is in the state and in this society? Do you know that you're just an ordinary clerk, though, now with much more authority and many stolen miles of highway. You remember that statement you made, they remember the citizens, when you said it so lightly – what's the problem for me as a minister to steal a five-mile highway, so I can pave the way for some villages in Smederevo, so people can vote for your candidates. Now I ask you, how many times have you stolen five kilometers, so you haven't paved any streets in any of the villages in Serbia, Mr. Velimir Ilic. So maybe you can laugh, and the citizens of Serbia are crying about it, just so you know. So, Mr. Velimir Ilic, we're talking about the Law on Planning and Construction that you presented here a few days ago... (Velimir Ilic, from the place: How are you not ashamed to talk like that? ) Please, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, remind Minister Ilic, because he behaves inappropriately, obviously with too many malignancies in this room, which is really not correct from the government's representatives, and you should be ashamed of what you do and not from what I say, Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25385	Please provide normal working conditions. Continue to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25386	So the government's draft law on planning and construction is a very bad proposal and we said that when we spoke in the principle debate. This law, if adopted, will not solve what is the problem of today's construction in Serbia, first of all I mean building objects that were built without a building permit, which many like to call illegal, illegal and wild buildings, and we only call them buildings built without a building permit. I want to repeat what we have been saying and when this law was being discussed, when it was brought into that basic form, and also today when we talk about the amendments and additions of this law, that these solutions are not being resolved, that it was meant to pass a whole new law that would really make it easier to obtain construction permits, faster construction, simpler, cheaper legalisation of objects that were built without a building permit. This is what the representatives of all parties who exercise power today promised, and most of all, even personally, was promised by the current Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, when he spoke of cheap legalisation being carried out in Cačka, where he was then president of the municipality, and that when he exercised power on the republican level, he would create conditions for all Serbia to be legalised on more favourable terms and easier to legalise all objects that do not have a building permit. Of course, and it was one of the empty promises, as were the empty promises to the citizens of Smederev, the Kings and everywhere where the extraordinary elections were held, that Velja Ilic would build their airports to the village, and even the tractors to those villages couldn't come, that she would make bridges in villages that didn't have a river, but well, the man was probably under the influence of alcohol, he doesn't even know what he was saying as he clearly doesn't know how he behaves. I also want to say something about buildings that do not have a building permit, which I was talking about when we talked about the draft of this law, in principle debate, and above all I mean the settlements of Busije and Grmovac, which are located in the territory of the municipality of Zemun. I'd like you gentlemen of the Veli Ministry to listen to what I'm saying and ask the minister, and I asked him last time, and I didn't get an answer, if he found out who robbed the citizens of Busi, because they asked for and took 500 marks for the connection to the power station, or allegedly, and there were 24 trafo stations, which were purchased at the time when the SRS ruled in Zemun, not in this meeting, but in the previous one. I also asked where the six trafo stations from the Bolsheviks disappeared, settlements in the territory of the municipality of Zemun, settlements that had been without power since 2000 because the city authorities had been lighting up the SRS through that people, not guilty or in debt, because they knew that people and in Busias were those who voted for the SRS and were therefore condemned to live without electricity and that by today they would not know who ordered it from the republican and city level. Gentlemen, the seminar on planning and building is somewhere else, and here listen to the MPs or at least pretend to listen, because you have to. And you have to apologize, what kind of behavior this is, as if everyone here has been left by your father.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25387	Mrs. Radeta, I apologize. I warned you in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25388	And you need to apologize, you have a reason. The third settlement is the village of Altina, and I will remind you of the action of the SRS when this law was passed on whose amendments and additions we are talking about today; when we have collected a million signatures from Serbian citizens who have asked to put aside the Law on Planning and Construction, because based on this law, as well as on this, they cannot legalise the facilities they live in, and they have made them for many years, because they are mostly poor citizens. They helped each other, so the building of buildings lasted ten years, and many are not finished today, but people use them for housing, which, they must, they have no place to live, of course, we don't blame them, on the contrary, we want to help them. When we visited citizens and explained that Nenad Bogdanovic wanted to raise huge funds in Belgrade, however, the DS, or DOS, was at the level of the Republic of Serbia, remember their declaration that all citizens who applied for legalisation before 13 November 2003, and that they did not have to submit any document, it is only important to submit a request and to submit evidence of two fees with that request. One was the city and one was the Republic. At that time, millions of people flocked to the budget of both Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, because citizens were afraid that this Belgrade government, and so it was within Serbia, would start to tear down their facilities, because in each city they destroyed one or two buildings to intimidate other citizens to submit a request, and from now on, nearly three years ago, not even 10% of these buildings received a building permit. We knew that it was impossible, because there are no legal conditions for obtaining these building permits, as there are no construction conditions today, or legal conditions under such a regulated law. Even if all the amendments of the Members of Parliament submitted to this bill were accepted, we would not have the whole regulation of this matter again, and therefore there is really no other option but to adopt, or propose, a serious bill to the Assembly. I also mentioned this third settlement in the municipality of Zemun, which is Altina. Why do I find that interesting? Because it was a settlement formed at a time when Nebojsa Covic was the mayor of Belgrade. Then a large area of PKK land was parched, plots sold for construction, and then the settlement was formed. Nenad Bogdanovic, in 2003, when collecting money from those taxis, spoke publicly about the settlement that was created during the radical government in the municipality of Zemun. Of course, that's not true. In our time, the settlements of Busije, Grmovac and the Blue Horizon were created, and we are proud of these settlements and above all of them, and for everyone else, we want to pass a normal law in this House that will create conditions for legalization of buildings that have been built without a building permit. In this regard, the amendment to Article 21, where I proposed that a new position be added after Article 21, which reads: "The provisions of this member also refer to the construction of energy and telecommunications facilities for which the approval of municipalities, or the city is granted." Article 21 refers to Article 58 of the basic text of the law, and Article 21 states: "For the construction of telecommunications facilities in an area for which no urban plan is envisaged, or for which no urban plan or urban plan is provided for the construction of that type of facility, an act on urbanistism is issued in accordance with the conditions of the authorities, or organisations responsible for telecommunications activities, in accordance with the law." That's fine, we haven't had any objections, but I don't see why the amendment hasn't been accepted to issue approvals under the same conditions and to build energy facilities. You know, because of these gaps in the law and not only this law, we have permanent images on the streets of Serbia that every other year the same street is dug up, excavated, one installation installed, then one year or two others, etc. We know what the essence of such jobs is, the best money laundering is through the construction of roads and streets. The most difficult thing to discover is the machinations and, of course, this is why they're making them miss out on the law so they can steal miles of highways and this Stanojevic could do what he did with Nemanja's street. But here's what I'm going to do in the next amendments, because I've wasted my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25389	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Any other MPs? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25390	In this response to the Government, which does not accept this amendment, there is something in the explanation that is really contradictory. I don't know which one of you wrote this argument, but in it you confirmed what I stated in the amendment, or the SRS. Article 24 covers the amendment of Article 64 of the basic text of the draft law. So, on the proposal of the interested party and with the consent of the owner of the land, the Government is now adding its text – "i.e. user", a correction of the borders of neighbouring parcels is made, in accordance with the law, provided that such change is in accordance with the conditions set out in the plan. So you're already talking about some urban plan. Item 2 says that the cost of correcting the borders is borne by the owner, i.e. the users of the cadastral parcel to which, this "required users" is the addition you make to this bill, the land attached. And what was the SRS looking for? She asked to cover another category of land. These are users of the rest of the construction land in the state property, the user is obliged to suffer changes in the boundaries of cadastrian parcels according to the plot plan, i.e. an appropriate urban plan. So the plotting plan was not given as a cemented act, but was given an appropriate alternative, so before the previous members and amendments had any dilemma as to whether there should be a plotting plan. So this amendment of ours doesn't devalue your text, it doesn't question your commitment. Your definition was that next to the owner as an alternative to the user, because the user after the Schumarca was lost, unfortunately. Now I have to remind you, they deliberately passed such a bad law, which may even be inapplicable. You probably see now that there's a good idea and a good initiative and I don't see why you didn't accept it, but good. Now I'd move on to something that's an essential question. The essential question is, above all, in terms of status and legal position of land in cities. I have long led the initiative, I must tell you, it does not fit the tendencies of this minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr Parivodic, and perhaps several other MPs in this room today, but we have several ministers in this government, and especially in that Zivkovic and Djindjic, who express their own continuity of efforts to return to them at any cost some land. And they represent it in a very unprincipled way. One of these unprincipled ways is also the Law on Planning and Construction. By the way, he suggested a forestman, he represented him here. The question is, does this man even know what's written and what's suggested here? I'm opening a principle issue as a principle problem. I believe that for 50 years already, through the development of urbanism, the development of our cities, the settlements, some new trends, where we have daily as an active situation to question the urban standards that are learned in the university, and the density of population and the percentage of green areas, etc., that under the influence of this technology, the techniques, the construction style, the construction methods, the new architectural forms, etc. are also being questioned by the legal position of the land. All matters concerning the arrangement of the city's space, construction, reconstruction and adaptation, from the point of view of the land as immobilities, are rightly asked whether the legal position of the land should be purely property or administrative. Because, in many moments, the rules of property law and what was in the neighborhood law are so redefined that it becomes a purely administrative thing, less and less property, and technology and technology require it to become a public matter. This is a form of limitation of property rights. Some countries have solved it in other ways, as property of local self-government, and in France there is even so much cemented property rights that, no matter what the urban plan is, it is not for sale. That land is not sold, it's not allowed to own anything it does, etc. If you look at how it is in Europe, it is a small number of countries that are so overemphasizing the property character of city building land, but most countries accept this administrative treatment, precisely because of the fact that property, I do not question compensation, market values, etc., is not a factor that prevents development and perhaps a more quality appearance of an urban environment. We'll be spinning around about that problem for a long time. That's why I think this member is good enough to just open up the topic of thinking, because it's probably where people from law school, economic college, construction, urbanism, architecture, etc. should be involved. If we can work this out, believe me, a lot of things end up. What's written in article 64 of the basic text just sounds nice. To read to you, he says, "On a proposal from the interested party and with the consent of the landowner, or the user." You see, the owner's consent is at the same level as the user's consent, and the user can be someone, in the end of the day, the tenant, and someone who has been handed over the right to use on state property. It is status-equal, although the beneficiary of state property has the right to use, manage and under certain conditions have the right to dispose, and the rightful owner has the right to property, which is in a completely different rank. So I think it would be good if you accepted this amendment, a team before it refers to state property, land users in state property, and refers to other building land, where it is required to suffer the lotion, the change, whether or not that parcel is carried out on the basis of a plan, an urban act, a special plot plan, etc. Why? Because it's a land in a different legal status compared to the land it owns. One who benefits essentially does not have all the property rights on that land, has only limited rights of use, management. If available, the Property Directorate, or the City Assembly, shall make land available in accordance with its decisions on land confiscation, land allocation, etc. You can't now give the user of state land, this kind of building land, to give it property rights, that it's up to him to carry out the plot. A moment ago, Mrs. Radeta took a very good example. He may be historical, because he has continuity from Covic and perhaps before Covic. There was some state land, even agricultural land, and then after the trade, the change of purpose, etc., but it was essentially state-owned, the plot was to be carried out, and construction plots were to be determined later and construction started, according to some plans. The plot's been done a long time. Agricultural land is trampled, even paid a fee that was 100 or 1000 times the real value. What happened in Zemun was the result of revenge for some who were in the City Assembly, who wanted to stop it, to prevent it, and they didn't want the urban development of that part of the city. Today you also have a situation in the territory of the municipality of Voždovac, where within one street a house can be controlled, a family apartment building can be destroyed and a four-story building can be built, and this one cannot be built next door. What's the reason? The reason is the racket. In all construction activities, obtaining a building permit, obtaining acts on urban conditions, later using permits, something without which nothing can begin, is some proof of the right to use or property on land to be built. If you keep this and don't accept this amendment, in fact, you're preventing people from getting a document that might require an act on urban conditions and a later building permit. You stop the plot, you stop the way the construction plots are going to be, you deny the possibility of someone fulfilling the conditions and providing documentation for obtaining a building permit, and that's quite unnecessary, because it's a property in state property. I must remind you that it is in its legal position excluded and has no treatment of those other funds in the state property of the Republic of Serbia, where the hat is the Republic Property Directorate, but as such property was extracted and given in a special regime. It should be done under this law, as well as individual and general acts of the city, i.e. municipalities, depending on some territory. I believe there is absolutely no reason why you could not accept this amendment, a team that contributes to your initiative how to do an even more efficient job on building land.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25391	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 26a be added after article 26. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milan Stevovic submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25392	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction refers to Article 84 of the basic law and I will read it whole, is not long. "There is an earlier owner, legal heir, and persons to whom the former owner has transferred the right to use, in accordance with the law, on unbuilt construction land in state property." Article 2 states: "The earlier owner of the 1st Article's position is considered a person who, according to the applicable regulations, was his owner on the day of entry into force of the Law on the Nationalisation of Rental Buildings and Building Lands" (the "Official Journals of the FNRJ"), "The Law on the Determination of Building Land in Cities and Cities of City Characters" ("The Official Journals of the SFRY"), "The Laws on Determination of Building Land in Cities and Cities of City Characters" ("The Official Messengers of the SRS"). The third position: "According to the request for the determination of the rights laid down in Article 1, the solution shall be made by the competent municipal administration". Fourth position: "The right to use under Article 1 is in traffic". The fifth position: "The examination of the contract on the right of use is based on the judicial solution set out in Article 3." What is added to Article 84 reads: "The right to use under Article 1 which has been transferred on the basis of the contract referred to in Article 5 is in traffic." National MP Milan Stevovic has tabled an amendment asking for article 84 to be deleted. It is proposed to delete this member as surplus, as it limits the right to dispose of other unbuilt building land, although Article 89 of the basic law, paragraph 2, provides that the rest of the building land may be in all forms and that it is in traffic. The government replied: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed Article 27 was allowed to traffic the right to use and that land already transferred by the former owner on the basis of a contract that has been certified under the Law. By deleting Article 84. The law would make it impossible for the legislator's intention to re-establish the rights of former owners of building land, which it was seized under the Law on Nationalisation of Rental Buildings and Building Land." If all of this exists in article 79 and the article 84 has been regulated so far, what does article 27 mean to you, supplementing something that has already been completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you vote in favour of Mr. Stevovic's amendment in the day of voting and thus help make this law applicable in practice. I'm sorry the minister came out. I'd like to take this time to ask him a question: Three months ago, I asked two MPs questions from a congregation pay phone. The Rules of Procedure have been clearly regulated as to how they answer the parliamentary question – either in writing or in person. Since it's been three months, and I don't know exactly what time it is to answer the Rules of Procedure, since I haven't been answered so far, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity, probably the minister is looking and listening to this, so let him prepare an answer, I expect him to answer both questions today. The first question concerns the giving of concessions on the Horgos-Požega highway. This is where you decided to take that highway to a concession. We voted against it. After that, you passed two laws: one about borrowing loans to build a bridge at Beška; another, I think we have a bill now that will supplement it. So, the state is in charge of building a highway, to hand over the highway to the concessionary, and the concessions are, gentlemen from the Ministry, since the minister is not there – build, use and surrender. No, I'll build it, you use it, so hand it over, if we make a deal and what do we do? No minister can owe this state any more and then give the buildings built. I want him to tell me tonight the name and name of the concessionaire, probably knows him and he's got him written down, and the percentage he's gonna get from that concession. The second question I asked, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an incredible robbery of the state property of the Serbian state. It's about flight control. Then I explained enough when it was a 32m-euro loan, or a loan to control the flight. Director Stankov Nikola has a million-dollar salary and 200,000 dinars a month. It rose to the parliamentary salaries of so much noise, the MPs paid taxes, my tax is 1,800,00 dinars. The entire year's pay per month receives this Nikola Stankov, in flight control. He bought snowmobiles when he went to the bathroom so he wouldn't rent there. He pissed off all the officers, because flight control, in time, before you turned her into an agency, was a state institution. He pissed off all the officers because they were in charge of flight control next to military flights. He chased everyone who disobeyed him, anyone who raised his voice, he rushed. The only reason you're holding him is because he has husband status. Namely, his wife works in one of the ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by the way, the minister must not mention him. It's the same Nikola Stankov who was planning on building a radar system on Mount Riley. In other people's territory, Serbia was supposed to invest its resources on another's mountain. One more thing, he mutilated flight control, related to military flyovers. Every civilian plane has a pepper that reports to the flight control that's the plane, etc. They don't have that kind of military. We don't know who's flying over the National Assembly building right now, whose planes, which NATO members, etc. I expect the minister to tell me when he's gonna clean up flight control from thieves, hohstapplers, con men. Two and a half million euros in one tour were given only to passenger vehicles, followed by another million euros. There's all the data. No one is allowed to head up against Nikola Stankov. How long will the thieves stick to, and why are they holding on? Whether it means it again because of some commission or because of the system for the participants – I do it to you, so I will do it to you. That's not how it's gonna work. I expect the minister to answer me tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25393	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Please, since we have already realized several times that the answers have not been delivered to the MP, let's check that in the morning, because it is certainly an obligation. The word is Mr. Djordjevic, about the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right on this amendment to the SRS, which Milan Stevovic submitted to article 27. The draft law on planning and construction, where a member of the 84th existing law should be deleted. In the reasons given, it is proposed to delete this member as a surplus, since it limits the right to dispose of other undeveloped building land, although Article 89, Article 2 of the existing law provides that the other building land may be in all forms of property and transport. So, Article 89, Article 2 of the existing Law on Planning and Construction, provides that the rest of the building land can be in all forms of property and that it is in traffic, and Article 84, this is completely unnecessary and therefore we believe that this article should be changed and read as follows: "Article 27 is amended and Article 84 is deleted". This is an explanation set out in the amendment submitted by my fellow MP Milan Stevovic. This Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly, only gives some small cosmetic changes to the existing solution, i.e. the legal solution for which, when we spoke in principle, SRS MPs said that it was a law that put aside all other previous laws in these areas that addressed the issue of construction and urbanism. It is a law that has led to total chaos in this area and has caused great damage to the Republic of Serbia. So, we expected you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose a better legal solution, a new law on planning and construction, and you submitted a proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, where some minor changes are made, but of course you can't fix a bad law that is in force. In this way, the Government did not do what was its role, to regulate a bad legal solution in this important area in a legal way and to propose a completely new law, not just amending and supplementing laws that are not precise and clear. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted 15 amendments to which you have accepted only two or three. You should have accepted more amendments, or all amendments to the SRS, because in large part we tried to correct the bad legal solution, what should be the application of this law on construction and planning and the role of supervision and control of construction. In these amendments and additions to the Law, you have done nothing when it comes to the Chamber of Engineering formed by the Government under the existing laws, and we will discuss this when I come out for the next members of the amendments to the Law. We think this is a bad legal solution and we will vote against such a proposal that you made to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25395	Any other parliamentary group on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Miloja Savic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragan M. Jovanovic submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25396	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 91 of the Basic Construction and Planning Act provides for the authorisation to be issued for construction and for all acts necessary to obtain approval for construction. It shall be stated under point 1) that a copy of the urban plan or of the urban conditions act is required. Under 2) an idea project in line with a copy of an urban plan or an act in urban conditions. Under 3) evidence of property rights, i.e. leases on construction land and 4) other evidence given by the urban plan. The current Law provides that an idea project must be in line with a copy of the urban plan or an act on urban conditions. So whoever was delivering the idea plan was obliged to keep an eye on whether the idea project was in line with urban conditions or not. So there was no organ to confirm whether it was in conformity or not. There was a simplified procedure for obtaining approval for construction. These amendments and additions to the Law now provide for an idea project to be confirmed by the competent authority that it has been done in accordance with a copy of the urban plan. So, the procedure is complicated, and now whoever asks for approval for construction must also have confirmation that an idea project has been done in accordance with a copy of the urban plan or acts in urban conditions, which extends the time limit for issuing the building approval, so we consider it unnecessary to comply with the idea project. Because whoever is doing an idea project is obliged to keep an eye on whether it is in line with a copy of urban conditions or an act in urban conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25397	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Meho Omerovic and Rajko Baralic submitted. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25398	Obviously, Mr. Meji Omerovic doesn't care what happens to the fate of his amendment. On the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SPS, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31. Let me read it, because of citizens who are very hard to follow up on the amendment debate. What I'm saying is that it's pretty complicated for people who follow what we're doing and because they don't have the text of the basic law, they don't have enough information and that from our explanations, they often can't understand what it's about. That's the problem, but what can we do? That's the procedure. In Article 97, point 6 is replaced by the following: ‘And the objects for which they are being deleted’: ‘before reconstruction and reconstruction’. In paragraph 8, the call for points 4 and 7 shall be deleted. A new position of 9 shall be added after Article 8 which reads: ‘The application referred to in Articles 1, 4 and 7 as well as the application for the adaptation of family housing, agricultural and economic facilities within the borders of the national park and facilities within the limits of the protection of the protected natural goods of exceptional importance shall be confirmed by the municipal, or city administration’. An existing attitude 9 becomes attitude 10. Let me read the explanation. "The proposal to amend Article 96(96) of the basic law refers to precision because under the term'reshuffle' given in Article. 2. The basic law provides for works requiring approval for construction, and Article 97 of the basic law refers to building facilities and carrying out works for which no construction approval is granted." Why did I submit the amendment? Because this could be a source of abuse. You know it's a source of abuse. Under the term "adaptation" or "recreation" often, until the objects are finished, hides a lot of other things. I felt that this was more precise and that no one had any damage to this, and I would ask the government, if it was able to accept this, and if not, then I would ask the honourable folk colleagues to support this amendment in the day of the vote. He's a completely professional character. These amendments we have submitted have been working together with the Council for Urbanism, Culture and Construction of the SPS. So this is what we've found respected SPS members who have been doing this business for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25399	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Another group of MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25400	A moment ago, Mr. Markovic, I took the liberty of reminding you of a national MP who was distracting the government gentleman, or the Ministry. And then I remembered that it wasn't really good. I should have let that colleague tell them some of his findings, since he's an expert in legalizing objects, and I'll tell you now, gentlemen, I don't know if you've heard of it. At the time he exercised power in his municipality, the gentleman legalized a shopping centre in the center of Pogorjevac, which is without a building permit, and in that shopping centre is the area of which he owns the wife of this MP. Maybe he wanted to tell you how it can be done, something nobody in Serbia has done. Only that business space is legalized, and believe it or not, it's registered. I'd like you to check it out and see which one it is, and I've tried to read both that old law and the proposal of this new and all the amendment colleagues who are not from our parliamentary group, so that I don't eventually get to it, because there are people who are interested in doing such a job. I hope you'll check this fact out, because this is true. As for the amendment of my colleague, Bozidar Koprivica, to Article 32. The bill, I'll remind you, is that Article 32 refers to Article 98 of the basic bill. Article 98(1) states: "The setting of smaller assembly facilities on public surfaces (kiosks, summer gardens, moving counters, etc.).), it was in the earlier text, and the government suggested: "The floating facilities on water land also provide and arrange the municipalities, i.e. the city, or the city of Belgrade. For the production of technical documentation for the establishment of the objects referred to in Article 1, the conditions laid down in this law shall not apply." What is the suggestion of a colleague of Koprivica? The proposal is to change attitude 1. and to read as follows: "Setting of temporary and mobile facilities on public surfaces (small installation facilities, kiosks, summer gardens, phone booths, entertainment park, circus, open ground for recreation or balloon halls, counters, conservatives, windows, etc., water rafts with access ramps, gardens on the coastal fort, sounds, sand and pebbles, Ponton bridge, berth for boats, boat winterboats, etc.) The municipality, i.e. the city, or the city of Belgrade, is being arranged." What is the essence of this amendment? We have not touched the concept in general what is the Government's proposal and even a proposal for basic law, but we just wanted to specify precisely which objects are not subject to the provisions of this law, i.e. which are so-called. temporary facilities. Why did we make that clear? Because in practice it is known that everything that is not, and especially in this area, absolutely precise, is always subject to abuses, different interpretations. Then you know that when a party in the process is looking for one of these objects that is not precisely listed here, then, in order to get the party that really wants, or permission to set up that facility, it has to do some other conversations. This was characteristic of the city of Belgrade and those famous tariffs for setting up facilities around the city of Belgrade, during a period when the former Radicals exercised power on the territory of the Zemun municipality. We then issued a large number of solutions for setting up temporary facilities. It was a backbone in the 2000 election campaign, I think, campaigning against all candidates and our political inexperiences. Of course, with the thesis that we're disrupting the city's appearance, etc. And there have been attempts to bring down these facilities since 2000, so solutions have been made to the collapse. Thank God it didn't work out. The objects are still decorated and proud of that part of Zemun. Now, if you were to ask all the citizens who used to bully to go out in crowds and protest these temporary objects, would you allow these objects to be removed, they would say, not even for a living head. People are used to it, and now they're beautiful objects, beautifully decorated, at a time when we were issuing these building permits and when they were just beginning to build. These were, of course, buildings in construction, so then unedited surfaces around these objects, etc. In the meantime, they're finished, and there's room around these facilities. Of course, it's a completely different story. Why did I mention this? Because at the time we were issuing solutions for setting up these facilities in Zemun, all the newspapers were full of stories about how radicals disrupt the appearance of Zemun. At the time, the setting up of temporary facilities across the city of Belgrade was extended to all sides. Sir, your colleague will tell you after what I talked about, and you're not here to tell him what I just said. You should apologize. You've been acting the way you shouldn't. So, at the time, there was a boom in setting up temporary facilities of all kinds throughout Belgrade. Of course, there was a lot of talk about high commissions to set up these facilities. So we wanted this amendment to specify the setting up of temporary objects, that is, the type of temporary objects, so that it could no longer be misused and interpreted one way or another. The following remark, which is contained through this amendment, refers to linguistic precision, because you wrote in the bill that the municipality regulates the setting up of temporary objects, and we said that the municipality provides security, because, you know, if the municipality provides for the setting up of temporary objects, it can be assumed that the municipality is the one setting up these objects and then, I don't know, renting objects. Well, that's not the point. It's about issuing locations for setting up temporary facilities. Now I want to remind once again of the SRS proposal to put aside the Law on Planning and Construction and the reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We submitted the proposal twice, both during the previous government and at the time of Zivkovic and this now Kostunica. Both times we received the same response from the Government – that our proposal to put aside the Law on Planning and Construction cannot be accepted. Among other things, therefore, in both arguments identically, the government says from everything – it turns out that the law of which is proposed, created conditions for faster and more efficient building of buildings, for rationalizing space and using building land, as one of the basic resources of the state. Also, conditions have been created for the effective and organised legalisation of illegally built objects and their entry into the public book on immovable property, by simplifying the procedure for issuing the building approval and significantly reducing the number of consents obtained in the process preceding the issue of building approval. This is a big lie. We knew it was true then. I wish this were like this, but unfortunately it isn't, and now the government is in favour of this draft law on amendments and additions to the law cited all these reasons as reasons for the adoption of amendments to the law and it speaks of the indemnity and irresponsibility of the government and the necessity for this government to stop ruling Serbia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25401	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25402	I apologize to the MPs, I've heard part of Mrs. Verita Radeta's statement, and it seems to me she's been deluding the wrong facts, falsely, unfortunately. She could have her fellow MPs, and Veroljub Arsic and myself, asked what it looked like to legalize a shopping centre that was a freakish creation without any paper. In 2001 and 2002, the new government was able to legalise it because it was simply not the power to crash such a huge project in the middle of Pogorets. A large number of local and apartment owners in the facility, of course, expected new fire authorities to come in and bring in their intentions in some way, and that was a good intention. I have to say, no civil servant, not even my smallness, owns any real estate, not in that locality, not in that mall, not in any of the other centers. All I have to say is that my family's members have been working in several rentals and they're working in one rented facility, a commercial activity, and I don't think it's against the law. And I call upon you, my colleague, if you have any more of these false things, I think it would be more collegiate and cultural to ask around and hear from your colleagues before you go out on a limb like this to attack people. That's one thing. The second thing is, on several occasions, I have informed the leaders of the SRS of urban crime in the municipality of Pogorec. It exists, not only during the current government, it has existed before, and I suppose it wants to be kept at a level that is inadmissible. That the inadmissible level of this urban crime is evidence of several criminal charges filed by the ministry today presenting the law to us. Unfortunately, they haven't started the proceedings yet, and I hope they'll be running. It is a form of organised crime that is present even in municipal services, but also in the judiciary. I also called on the mayor of Mr Dusan Vujčić and the president of the SO Fireman Mr Grubetic, who comes from your party to take up office and solve the problem. Yeah, he's a member of the SRS. Unfortunately, they haven't shown their willingness and it seems to me that they don't even want to deal with such problems at all. We expect the local self-government to do something, otherwise we'll suspect that in one, we say, a circuit that certainly doesn't guarantee that the Fireman will have fair authority. So, gentlemen of the radicals, when you're up here so loudly to fight crime, go first from your own yard, don't give any examples where you mention it – they're working on the authorities in the municipality of Pogorec, no, I invite you to clean up in your backyard, if you have it. Please and I will inform and hope that this does not only listen to a few MPs of the SRS, but also to hear the leader, Toma Nikolic, and to hear Alexander Vukic. To hear this cry from the Firefighters, to deal with the urban mafia once and for all. On that road, I guess we should all be together. I hope you'll help with that. Don't ignore it especially, don't let it be like this, let's say, pathetics, or even lies, to present your thoughts in this way. So, before accusing anyone from the fire municipality, ask Mr. Veroljub Arsic, ask your colleague Slavoljub Matic, ask some other colleagues who are present here and who will certainly give you the facts, do not casually attack people. When it is necessary for all of us to stop together and fight crime – call, you have full help from both the rest of the ministry and from all MPs from all the parliamentary groups coming from the Fireman.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25403	Mr. Matić, did you discuss this by amendment? By amendment, you're a little longer then. Right on the line, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25404	This is where fellow Matić obviously mixed up the pots a little bit. First, he said that it's illegal for me to say it here, and it's illegal not to be in this room, being who knows where and then hearing from the ministry gentlemen just part of my presentation, and then here completely different from what I said. Of course, I have no intention of making excuses, but I certainly want to explain. It's a fresh interview these days by Bojan Stanojevic, this main Belgrade manager, who said he wouldn't let anyone ask him about an elite restaurant in Belgrade, because it's not his restaurant, it's his wife's restaurant and his sister-in-law, so let's ask his wife. I know, Mr. Collar, that you don't currently have a place that's legalized at that mall, because you first legalized it, registered it and sold it, or your wife, I know it. As for the municipal government, as far as criminal charges are concerned, I thought you knew some basic things, and these gentlemen who whispered to you what I said, criminal charges are not filed, Mr. Maticu, the municipality. You know, there's another institution called the D.A.'s office, so that's where you're going, I guess that's where you filed a criminal report, and there's some kind of public authority, if it came from the Ministry. What difference does it make and what your cry for appeal, when you are part of the ruling coalition, most of the ruling coalition, you choose judges, prosecutors, presidents of the courts. Of course, we have nothing against it, you have the congregation majority, you have the right to choose, but you have the obligation to bear responsibility for everyone you choose. Now, why don't you ask your judges, your prosecutors, why they don't respond on the criminal charges of the D.A.'s Department of Capital Investments, because that's terrible. You filed criminal charges, and the DA's office is not responding, and there's an urban mob going on. I don't know, it's really an alarming problem, and I expect, Mr. Matic, that you will, and I'm surprised that you didn't intervene with Mr. Stojkovic today to see what he's going to do with that prosecutor in Pozarevec who isn't responding to the criminal report by the Ministry of Capital Investments. So, just to teach you and teach you that criminal charges have nothing to do with the municipality, and especially none of the heads of the municipality and of the members of the SRS, thank God, is covered by that application, and you know it well. No, here's your confirmation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25405	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Matic is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25406	In accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So, once again, it's a lie. Mrs. Veronica Radeta is lying. Here, I say, lie and sue me. I'm going to sue you for this lie. You're abusers of this pay phone. I don't want to sue you, you have immunity. I won't call for immunity, neither will you, I hope, since you are so strong and honest. I wish you the best of your life, but don't lie here. So, my family never owned in that place any place or business space, or owns, unfortunately, in any other part of the Fireman something like that. That's true, and don't use lies. I think all of your stories here are based on fighting corruption are immediately falling into the water and it's a good thing the citizens are watching this, first of all, the Fireman. In the end, just for that kind of talk, you'll never have much success there. But, please also, for the record, it's not my business to be active in the end either, I don't know how many MPs I can, since, of course, neither you nor I have executive power, we're fighting corruption. Of course, it is ours to create political frameworks and laws that will allow for a serious fight against corruption. The ministry is tasked with combating corruption through its inspection bodies and they have already initiated these procedures. We were just expecting people who own executive power in the municipality of Pogorec to actively oppose it. How, in what way? Well, for example, municipal urbanism can be searched, the service of municipal urbanism, so that it can be seen how it's wrong, what it's doing. Of course it can be done, you can see the connections of many people from the municipal administration and investors; you can see how they are falsified and how they are done with the books; how they antidate regular numbers and how much they seem. So he can only do it when he wants to. Unfortunately, there's no good will there, and that's what, once again, which proves that radicals are never in line with those words we hear about this payphone. So show yourselves in action. Here you go. I had the nerve and proved myself in action while I was president of SO Fireman. Of course, my God, you were today, you weren't tomorrow, you might be again the next day. It's not a tragedy not to be in power, you know, but it's a pain in the ass that we've never used such demagogues and lies. I have nothing personal against you. I'll have it now. You know why? Because you've involved my family in your lies, because you've been acting so rudely. I don't think that's in any way...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25407	I warn you, Mr. Matić, none of you have been unspeakable, be kind, none of the MPs ever behave unspeakable. Please choose words and expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25408	You know what, when they talk about family and tell lies about your family, I don't think it's right, and I even think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25409	Please, it's done in another way, I'm talking about expressions, please, and I'm talking about words that are used for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25410	All right, I'll apologize to you and the other MPs, but I expect you, first of all, an apology. I expect a public apology from you, I think we've been very correct colleagues so far and we can stay at that level. Come on out and apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25411	Thank you. I'm sorry, of course I didn't follow up on the previous part of the discussion, but I certainly know that MPs don't express themselves immodestly. In case there were any irregularities, mentioning family members, I'm really asking everyone to refrain from it. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Branka Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan and MPs Meho Omerović and Tihomir Đuričić. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25412	Mr. Markovic, it would probably not be clear to you that you heard earlier that something was freakishly legalized. But all right, it's all going to our place. Mr Meho Omerovic has submitted an amendment to Article 36, where he has asked to delete what the Government has proposed, which is to add two new attitudes, i.e. a new attitude 5, and to change something in attitude 6. That's what Mr Meho Omerovic is asking to delete from this bill. Of course, he's consistent with what he voted in 2003. I fully understand him, he doesn't want his law mutilated by this intervention that the government is proposing. It is good that there is an Engineering Chamber, apparently belonging to this political group which believes that responsible contractors, and I think that this applies to this particular article 117 – the responsible contractor can only be a graduate engineer of the proper direction of the construction profession, etc., etc., three years of work experience, as it was and should have that license. Now let me tell you what it's like in practice. For the ministry, I'm sure it's got good and accurate information about what this license looks like and how it's being misused. It is misused by a licensed engineer sitting well in the office and each month receiving 150 to 350 euros because he places his signature that the performer is responsible at one, two, three, and there are cases – at 15 locations at the same time. That's a fact. Of course, I wasn't chasing construction sites to determine that, but people who do construction work confirm that it's a practice. But they confirm one more thing, that this licensed engineer is in a position to demand goods, that he's under the honor of showing up at a construction site, and the responsible contractor by definition would have to be probably 60% of the working time on the construction site itself. It is beneath him to be there with men who do works, carpenters, builders, and others. He thinks he got an exclusive because he has a license and he has a license he can do anything, and I have to tell you about the part where you from the ministry are responsible, your building inspectors look kindly at it. What kind of coalition they're in with them, I don't know, but any building inspector can tell you very precisely that the licensed construction engineer M.M. There are so many and so many locations at the moment where the authorised contractor is, i.e. The responsible contractor, I apologize. What's a face? Well, it's the most responsible for complete construction, for what happens in fact on the site, and so when the law was passed, it was made to make sure that it was primarily a professionally qualified person, with a professional exam, three years of work experience, and that he had a recommendation from two other responsible contractors. So not everyone could pass that exam there. So you made one subcast. How did this affect what we would call a classic building? It was reflected by becoming an extra workforce, so-called. Drive engineers, those who have two-and-a-half years of college, who are not graduated building engineers or some other engineers, depending on the type of work being done on a building. Why did they become excess? They can't sign, they're formally supposed to fit into some of the systems, and they're actually doing the job. They organize the construction site, chase the masters, make sure the goods come in time; count on keeping those necessary supplies of material to go; take care of the schooling, warn the masters not to fall, not to die, etc., but the kajam collects someone, neither guilty nor debtor, whom the Democratic Party and Meho Omerovic have honored. I respect his decision not to change his mind. Who affected his decision and his attitude, I don't know, but he's consistent. Two more MPs have tabled amendments to Article 117. Regardless of what Mr Jovanovic and Djordjevic will say, because they have very similar amendments, I just need to remind you of one thing. In the previous law, construction firms were licensed. In what way? That staff, technical and otherwise qualified for a particular type of work. Now you're licensing a man. I can't say that you don't worry about whether there's another thing that's very important for building (lifters, mixers), it kind of gets under some control, but much more becomes an object of interest to the one who invests, who gives money to build and the one who decides who he's going to give up when he determines who's going to be the contractor. So it happens to us that famous builders in Belgrade are people who do not have a construction operation. I must remind you that every construction site is visited by other inspectors, not just construction. For some time, they come by and sanitary, but very often they are obliged to stop by and inspectors of work protection, which should check that there is a safety regulations on the construction facility, whether the protection measures are applied, whether the workers are provided, whether everything works. Some have to check if it's the right electrical installation, whether there's a crane and how a job is done. When it comes to what they find on the site, then you'll see it's chaos and it's no wonder that some buildings are falling down, they're building up, and that someone at all costs wants to close the subject, so they agree to everything and everything. I must remind you that in this way, it allows some contractors to lift one to two floors more than they have obtained a building permit. I must warn you that your building inspectors know very well what's going on in the field, but they're quite complicit, to return to that termology from the Fireman, that the object of the punitive seem to be legalized, because probably by the act of legalization becomes a beautiful building facility. I have to remind you that some people take whole floors. They're talking about one of the city's officials in Belgrade that there are 1,000 squares of space behind a theatre. They're talking. Some manager, I don't even know what he is. You know who it can be, what group it's from. You DS can take everything, and government, but Belgrade won't. It's a mine, it's a coke stretcher, until the swans come. President, what are you playing me for?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25413	Mr. Krassic, I'm not playing you. First of all, I'm ringing, but I'm ringing the messengers who are getting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25414	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25415	By the way, I'm judging you're in the way. It's my duty to warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25416	Mr. Markovic is very inspired to comment because he knows these details much better. I don't have time to follow what those fuckers are doing around town. Let's get back to the subject. I deliberately do not touch Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Djordjevic's amendments, because they will very precisely explain what "P+4" is, etc., that I do not spend their amendments. I have to prepare you, to understand them, and they're about the same, I think it's only 1,000 meters different in one of the attitudes. What's this about? You're still representing the position that people with higher education should not be licensed. At first, I told you that, as a party, we believe that construction firms should be licensed, but obviously it cannot fit into your concept of law and we have swallowed it, so we accept that, in addition to licensed construction engineers with high school equipment, you license those with a higher level. That is why we are looking for a change in Articles 2 and 3 to allow them to be licensed, because they are at the site, and for the work that is being done there, there is no need for high school preparedness and construction organisation. It's probably necessary for a dig. You have a responsible construction engineer, Dragan Markovic, a couple of excellencies from a gentleman who knows how to organize a construction site. You can listen to him and write books about how to organize a construction site. Probably for buildings like the new building NBS needs a construction engineer with a great profession, but for these other buildings, five-six floors, etc., so far the responsible persons on the site have been so-called. Drive engineers and wherever they worked the facilities are very good and very good. So you're going to hear what's proposed to enable and from the point of view of legality, you're going to hear what someone's doing on the site. You know, the construction sites contain people with higher school supplies. I'm not going to remind you of any other indiscretions to this regulation. What do you do, say, if one street is to be built, so it's not just a traffic station, but in the course of this operation, communication, telecommunications, plumbing and sewers are to be done? Who do you think would be responsible for doing the work? Which way? Is there such a direction? Can you find that in smaller municipalities? It's probably supposed to be a trafficker by profession. Find him in Black Grass, in Bujanovac. No one's going to work there. Then you have engineers in a constructive direction, then these hydro-engines, and in some ways they're part of the business of building a simple street. What the Forestman brought, it's absolutely inadmissible. If this idea of his is to be realized in practice, you must break everything from the first to the last member. When you answer to Mrs. Radetti for our proposal to put this law out of force, to go back to the old one, and in the meantime to make something new, quality, I guarantee you that a team of five, six engineers will make the best law on construction. You answer us – it can't because it's an initiative, it's speeding up, and then you take changes and supplements and you say, "The existing law has stopped everything and it's quite inadmissible." This law, written by the Forester, is inapplicable. He cannot strengthen his legality and constitutionality even this retired Slobodan Vučetic. Only the Constitutional Court can make any solutions to the initiative and proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. He's impossible. In many places there are provisions here that say "he who jumps 15 meters to high". Since that's physically impossible, in that case I'm showing you the inability of certain provisions of this law. I hope in the voting day you accept at least one of the two amendments that follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25417	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment of MP Mecca Omerovic? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Dragan M. Jovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan M. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25418	Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, honourable fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36, or Article 117 of the old law, for several reasons. One reason is that I tried to regain the dignity of a profession, a profession, which was greatly humiliated by law before 2003. Not only are construction engineers humiliated, but the right to work guaranteed to them by the Constitution has been taken away. It's about people, and in principle, I've talked about them, which are huge references. I have all the documentation, dozens of albums that people delivered to me, were construction heads in Harare on a 60-story building. Mr. Milos Okanovic was the head of the NIS building in Novi Sad, on a magnificent facility, that's the man who works at the "Integrale" in Subotica and has higher school equipment. They were fully put in place by law of 2003. Krasic spoke about the situation on the ground. The situation on the ground is absolutely different. At all construction sites in Serbia, especially Belgrade, there are today people with higher school supplies, with helmet on their heads, construction heads. However, the construction mafia in this country is too strong, so it is in a position to continue blocking such proposals. The Building Committee, headed by Mr. Rade Obradovic, has taken this problem very seriously. Since there were a few amendments to the similar content, my amendment and Mr. Djordjevic's amendment envisioned what people with higher school supplies can do and the Committee took a stand, as there are several different amendments that bid around the square and some small things. On the Committee, we agreed to make a joint amendment to the Committee, in which proposals from several amendments concerning the same matter will be incorporated. We made that amendment, which included 100% of my amendment. I deliberately gave the correction to make it 100% of my amendment. I assumed that they could get a license, that they needed a proposal, recommended by two members of the Engineering Chamber, which Mr. Obradovic disagreed with, it changed, so my amendment is 100% contained in the Committee's amendment. Do you know what happened? Something that happened to me, as a man, is unacceptable, which is a matchmaking, but above all, a personal interest. Three days at the meeting of the Committee shall not be attended by an MP of the G17 Plus Party. So he's not coming to the Committee meeting, the Committee can't make a quorum, and the Committee's proposal doesn't go to the Assembly. By having previously made promises, please, Mr Jovanovic or Mr Djordjevic, withdraw your amendments, as they will be incorporated into the joint text of the Committee. Fortunately, I was referring to who I was dealing with, so I didn't withdraw the amendment. So, the amendment of the Committee is made, I have here a text of my amendment with a correction. The amendment to my amendment is 100% the text of the Committee's amendment. What's the point? I must read to you what the Committee has proposed, or what we MPs have proposed. It is said: "The licence for the responsible contractor, for the facilities for which the approval for the construction of the issue of municipalities, i.e. the city, or the city of Belgrade, floors to the PO+P+4+PK whose total surface does not exceed 2,000 m2 gross surfaces, facilities of less complex construction structures of up to 20 meters." This is what the Committee says, and in the amendment we say - up to 12 meters. Then: "local and untegorised roads and streets, internal installations of water and sewers, heating and air conditioning and electrical installations, internal gas installations, as well as the performance of certain construction and installation works and works on internal planning of facilities and the arrangement of the terrain, can also acquire a face that has a higher school preparation of the relevant profession, i.e., direction, passed a professional exam and three years of experience or a person who has a higher education, i.e. direction, passed a professional exam and at least five years of work experience". From this pay phone, I must say that we sat down with members of the government and agreed on the item. No one said, and I would understand if someone got up and said – please, Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Djordjevic, first-degree engineers can't do that. I'd sit at home and think about it. However, no one, from Minister Ilic, whom we spoke to to the deputy and assistant, has said that these people cannot do so. No, because there was a lot of documentation. If someone was the head of a 60-story building or a building in the 15-story Novi Sad, he could certainly be the head of a four-story building. On the side of the problem that Krasic was talking about, what these people are still doing today. In Blac, Bruce, Vlad's Han, Commerce, I can name a hundred cities, there's no licensed engineer. Now you have individuals who are executives at 50 sites. Krasic was gentle and said – 15 construction sites. This structure has absolutely worked on this and has not allowed man to come to the Committee to have a quorum and that the thing that we all have consent to pass. What I'm saying is that this engineer who worked in Moscow, Paraguay, Uruguay, and who knows where, from "The Tribute," "The Hawk," "The Cablar" and other businesses, comes out with arguments and says, "They're out of line, they can't do it." I'd take that. But, in a way like this, pretty mean, we eliminate what we all agree on, so there's no arguments, no one's going to go out for a pay phone and say that these people can't do what I've listed. I think it's very incorrect, it raises questions and further co-operation, and a lot of things are brought under question, if this is how you communicate and talk. I hope that in the interspecies communication, given what appears to be the fact that the representatives of the government, with what the Committee has written, we will in principle agree that in the day of voting, we will make it possible for the people behind whom it stands, I am not directly from that profession, but I know that much, at least in the post-war period, since 1945, has been built, by the enthusiasm of that profession which has been trained to wear a helmet on its head and be on the construction site. So it's their basic business and their basic activity. I think this way of working, some of their narrow interests, whether they're party, individual, I don't want to qualify, won't take us far. We need to think deeper and where we don't agree in principle, to see that something can't be done, that these people can't do it. Well, no one's abnormal to suggest something that doesn't go. It is sad and sad that something that we all almost agree on, honors the exceptions that are "super-European", so they think that even the teachers in the mangers should have a master's degree, and I welcome it as the opposite opinion, but in this matter we have sinned against the people who equally tasked us with their enthusiasm and work on construction sites across Europe and the world. I hope, in the contact I had with Radet Obradovic, the DSS, New Serbia's MPs, that in the day of voting, we will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25419	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The board has not submitted any amendments. If the MPs are not clear from the discussion, does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Mr. Djordjevic, is this enough for you? Yes, it is. The 36th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25420	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of the 117th existing law on planning and construction is a member who shows the true nature of the law passed by the former DS government and then Minister Šumarac, who was the competent resolution minister for the area. It's a law that was passed as a law that at the time was, as they say, a law without error, etc. At that time, the SRS parliamentary group in this assembly made clear all the devastating facts, all that would happen in the later period, which was happening in terms of legalisation and all that about the urban mafia. The existing law passed by the government of the Democratic Party in the previous assembly is a discriminatory law and I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. Change of law by the government. My colleague Krasic here made it clear that all the facts presented by SRS MPs and SPS counterparts who submitted a similar amendment. It's about Article 117. A bill that addresses the question of a responsible contractor, where in some ways it is taken away from engineers with a higher professional capacity to continue to do their job and cannot obtain a license from that chamber formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by an existing law. So, the Law on Planning and Construction, adopted by the Assembly on 22 April 2003, took the right to work with construction, machine, electric, geodetic and engineers of other professions, as well as technicians, although engineers and technicians built more than 90% of buildings in the Republic of Serbia, worked abroad and not to say where they didn't work. Therefore, this amendment would allow engineers and technical experts to put themselves in a fully equal position according to their verifications and the professional tests passed. That's the aim of the SRS. We were contacted by the Association of Building Engineers of Serbia, the same proposal was submitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will read to you only a portion of their letter and finally, a request for the resignation of the Minister of Capital Investments, Mr Velimir Ilic. The Serbian Construction Engineers' Association is asking for Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, to resign because of the unprofessional work of his employees, ignorance or inaction. The reasons why we have been defined as seeking the resignation of Mr. Minister are: under one you are responsible, Mr. Minister, which you and your employees have done nothing to change the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction, which discriminates, humiliates and deprives the work of engineers and technicians (I remind you that engineers and technicians have about 100,000 in Serbia). I also remind you, Mr. Minister, that we have written to you four times about this problem. Please receive UGIS members to introduce you to the problem and our suggestions. We have written a proposal to amend the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction, which solves these problems and delivers them to you, and you, Mr. Minister, as well as your service have been reading it for 18 months. As you explain, Mr. Minister, the fact that engineers and technicians have built over 90% of objects in Serbia, as responsible labour managers, according to previous laws. These facilities are still standing and you and your officers are working in them, and under the new law, Mr. Minister, you claim that engineers and technicians are no longer professional, and they were professional until 2003, to carry out the tasks of responsible workers. On this occasion, I cite only a few facilities where engineers and technicians were responsible for the work: the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the office building "Naftagas" in Novi Sad, with citizens of Novi Sad known as "Karingtonka" etc. So, I only read part of this letter, a request that the association submitted to the SRS parliamentary group, because I don't have enough time, because I have limited time. Our amendment to the amendment to the amendment and addition of the Law, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, refers to correcting this injustice against engineers. Of course, we cannot be satisfied, as I said in the previous exhibition when I am in the debate both in principle and in particular, saying that Serbia is one of the few countries in the region that has no elaborate plan and regulation plans, and should have them. Why was that engineering chamber formed? We can say that it was formed in 2003 by certain stakeholders, mostly related to DS, and now, you can say, with G17 plus, because they did not accept this amendment. We've tried and tried these amendments to change that aren't well engaged, and nothing in particular will change in this law, to try and correct some injustices. As Mr Krasic made it clear, it would be better if you had made a new law to put this existing one out of force. The SRS parliamentary group submitted the bill to the National Assembly a year ago. Of course we didn't discuss it, you didn't accept it, and now we have a surrogate proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, which will not solve this area of construction and urbanism as it should, and I think that you, as holders of the ruling coalition, here above all I mean the DSS, have to propose a new law and accept the proposal of the SRS parliamentary group to put away the existing discriminatory law, which was passed by DS 2003 and to use those laws that had previously been used in that vacuum. So I have made all the facts and arguments and I expect you to accept in the voting day this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and that MPs will vote in favour of this amendment, thus correcting only a small part of what was done in 2003 with the applicable Law on Planning and Construction, which, of course, cannot be good for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-11-0.u25421	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Tomorrow, at 10.00 hours, we will continue the debate in particular on Article 37, which was submitted by the MP. No, ma'am's not answering, please. We've already finished the debate. Thank you. Tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., follow-up.
