ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27162	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 83 MPs are present in the hall and that we do not have one-third of the MPs and no working conditions, so, according to Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour. [[After break - 11.15.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their voting cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. List of MPs who reported their absence from the meeting of the Assembly on 22 May 2006: Živodarka Dacin and Vukosav Tomašević. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON PREZIMANJE OF ACCIONARY COMPANIES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Branislav Stevanović, Vjerica Radeta, Vojislav Milajić, Radiša Ilic, Bozidar Koprivica, Branislav Rankić, Milos Dišić, Sulejman Spaho, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Dragan Zivkov, Ljubomir Kragović, Petar Jojic and Milan Stevović, as well as amendments submitted by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27164	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies is that point 6a goes to point 6a, which reads: "The target society cannot be taken over unless all actions are entered in the Central Register". We already know, there have been many irregularities in the privatisation process. One of the major injustices is that somewhere around 30% of the shares are not included in the Central Register, which therefore makes the privatisation process illegal. Therefore, I wanted to give this proposal to the Serbian Government and my fellow MPs that on the day we decide on this amendment we have in mind and that we remove this great injustice that has been done to our citizens. There should be another irregularity in mind, which is when it comes to actions that have been shared through the launch of competitions, and many people, our employees in many companies, have not been able to exercise their rights to action, because they have failed to read through advertising in the daily press and to exercise their rights. It is also a major injustice committed against Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27165	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27166	Ladies and gentlemen, you also heard in the SRS's principle debate on this bill and you heard why we cannot vote in favour of the law on the takeover of stock companies. The essence of this law is that the application of this law will enrich already privileged parts of society, i.e. fewer citizens of Serbia. We know all the problems we've had before and before this law. Unfortunately, this law won't change anything. I will only remind the public of Serbia above all, and so will your fellow MPs, what kind of problems have been going on during the takeover of the "Knjiza Miloša" action. You remember how many attempts, i.e. persuasion and the Committee on Papers of Values and other competent authorities, were made to take action, to take action by Danon, because at that time it was the will of Miroljub Labus, so you remember that he was meeting privately with Danon's representative in his home instead of in the Serbian government, because he was then vice-president of the Republic government. Finally, the job ended relatively well, in any case legally, because we from the SRS, above all on the Committee on Business and Privatisation, intervened and explained the intentions of the Serbian Government then and remember, of course, the public, remembers the citizens of Serbia, that the President of the Securities Commission, Mr Milko Stimac, almost died, or had major health problems, was sickened by the Serbian Government, the Minister of Bubal and the Vice-President of the then-Government of Miroljub Labus. We and the Survey Committee in this assembly have established these circumstances and this survey committee has completed its work, of course recently, and never the survey committee's report has arrived at the session of this Parliament. It speaks of the inseriousness of both the ruling majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia, and all such things could have happened because of the inaccuracies and bad regulations. All the participants we heard during the survey committee's work complained of bad regulations and as bad regulations were guilty of everything that almost happened. Of course, it is true that bad regulations can affect so negatively, but above all, the problem is in applying these regulations and for that very reason is this amendment to Article 4. A proposal for this law, so that no future record committee of value or any future competent state authority would say that a bad regulation is to blame for someone's criminal activity during this procedure. That is why we insist, not only on this law, but on the other hand, that the laws must be precise, clear, concise and that the application of the law leaves as little scope for abuse as possible, i.e. for such or such interpretation. Of course, as a lawyer, I know all the ways of interpreting legal regulations exist, but we, as a legislative body, have to pass such laws that when a person applies the law, there are not many possibilities for maneuvering in the application of that law, and in particular there is no possibility of this law being misused. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and I will say Article 4 refers to joint action. In the first position, it is said: ''The natural and legal persons shall act jointly:' 1) if, by means of a contract, written or oral, or explicitly or quietly, they have agreed to act in concert with the aim of obtaining actions of the target society or to exercise the right to vote in the actions of the target society. '"This, ladies and gentlemen, so inaccurate, in general, cannot stand in law. I therefore proposed that these words be deleted by 'written or oral, or explicitly or tacitly' and that it remain 'if the contract agreed to act in a coordinated manner in order to acquire actions of the target society or to exercise the right to vote from the actions of the target society'. It's the only legal right thing to do, and it's the only possible that it's in the law. What does it mean in the law that someone kept quiet about something? What does "orally" mean? Then he says, explicitly or silently. How can a court dispute prove someone's oral contract? I know there are such possibilities, but I'm asking you -- do we want to pass laws that will produce long-term and years of litigation, which will be suffered primarily by shareholders, and then by citizens of Serbia. What does it mean if there is a contract explicitly or tactfully, I'm talking about the oral contract that is provided for in this bill? It's just amazing, if two people agree orally to do something or not to do something, how can they agree silently if they don't agree, even if it's a oral contract, if they don't agree explicitly? Now what we have to assume in law is that the interpretation of the law interprets someone's thinking. This I think must be accepted, this amendment, because really if it stays like this, it will bring such headaches that it will be incredible and very soon we will have a lot of concrete cases to talk about here for that very reason. The government of the Republic of Serbia says that the amendment is not accepted because "The bill regulates the joint functioning of natural and legal persons in the way the EU Directive in this area and other laws governing joint action. The aim of these provisions is to cover all possible forms of agreeing the joint functioning of natural and legal persons in order to prevent the non-transparent takeover of the stock companies by my people, does this sound likely to to someone, to prevent silent contracts from taking over non-transparent companies. At what point will the natural or legal persons conclude this oral agreement, as you say, who can prove at which point they explicitly, and especially quietly agree on the existence of a contract. First, the whole group of laws we are discussing is quite late in Serbia, given that a large number of privatisations have been made. The largest companies are privatised and all in Serbia know that most of these privatisations have been done and illegal, in any case in a criminal manner, that many Serbian citizens have lost their jobs in these privatisations, that many have lost their corresponding severances. So, you used some kind of vacuum or worse bad laws. You did not allow the SRS proposals to be discussed, and when it comes to the law on the amendments and additions of the Privatisation Act, because you wanted to finish those jobs, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this and the two previous ones, and Zivkovic and Djindjic, you wanted to finish that biggest part of the job, to get rid of the citizens, and the economy and the whole state, just like you did, and then you now remembered that when that process was done, you were proposing these laws. And then even for this few remaining companies, you're not prepared to bring real laws to at least what's left to be done and just and legally clean. Because by applying Article 1 of this Law, none of this work can be legally clean, and in particular it cannot be just. I don't know who you're willing to give to the authority to think about whether someone's tactfully or explicitly concluded some kind of contract, to put the fate of people who are employed, shareholders, in the hands of someone, I don't really know who. Does this mean that someone will show up to take action and that, in the meantime, when the conditions that suit them or who correspond to someone third, that they will make some kind of deal, say - we agreed earlier orally about it, and here we are now, here you go, apply our lips, silent arrangements. So, people who haven't heard or heard from each other in some time and find some common interest, of course, at the expense of small shareholders, because that is the specialty of both these governments and the previous two governments, and that they claim to have had some kind of a silent agreement. This is truly amazing that you can predict something like this in law. I am surprised that fellow lawyers are not responding or at least not to accept this amendment, because this is an undefined legal norm. I don't know in which way it can be applied, and you say it's in accordance with the law, because if you don't accept this amendment, then whatever it is that someone is eventually agreeing on, at whatever point and whoever is doing whatever the deal is, it can be claimed that it was done in accordance with the law, because the law is formulated precisely in such a way that it can be misused. Therefore, I call on the government's representative not to be there, but I call on my colleagues to avoid at least another abuse in a series of abuses that were present in Serbia from 2000 to today. Of course, you who are now the government and who have the prime minister, in the election campaign, have claimed that you will check 83 privatisations. You haven't checked any. Anyone who reaches the court, we have court rulings at any moment where it is determined that privatisations have been carried out in a criminal manner, many, of course, not all. When I say this, it is clear that I am not thinking about everything, but about those that have been done contrary to the law or in the course of privatisation, is not a respected contract concluded. Citizens strike, come out, complain, get court rulings. The court rulings are mostly inconclusive, because business will be completed in the meantime. You don't care about that, and instead of correcting anything from what's already been done, you suggest that you... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And in the future, it works the wrong way. Once again, please don't put into the law such vague, inaccurate formulations and don't let us open the possibility of abuse with laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27167	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27168	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 4 provides for the Institute of Joint Action in the acquisition of the actions of the target societies. My previous speaker mainly included this institute, which contains two basic elements and which determines the contents of that concept. The essence of the concept of joint action is that certain persons act in a coherent manner in order to acquire actions of the target society, with a view to controlling other legal persons in an indirect or direct manner. That's about the meaning of this institute of joint action. The proposal for a law in Article 4 sets out cases of joint operation and states that joint action may arise in such a way that (1) the contract, written or verbally, will act in a coordinated manner in order to acquire actions of the target society or to exercise the right to vote from the actions of the target society; 2, if one of them holds actions for the account of the other person. Physical and legal persons also act together when one of them, directly or indirectly, controls the other or other legal persons. There are now four examples of what that would be. The concept of joint action also states that the management company manages when managing several investment, i.e. voluntary pension funds and companies can act jointly under the provisions of the laws governing companies. So, mostly all of these provisions in Article 4 are related to legal persons and their way of getting action to control stock companies. The last position of this member provides for a situation of restrictions on natural persons, where the joint functioning of natural persons occurs when certain actions are acquired if they have a certain status relationship, meaning spouses, relatives to the third stage of a postpartum kinship, Tabisan relatives, adoptive, adoptive, elderly, protégé, etc. However, this notion of joint action is not about the status relationship of natural persons, but is about the intention that certain persons, whether they are legal or natural persons, intend to acquire certain actions of the target society and take control of a particular legal person through the acquisition of those actions. That is the essence of this institute of joint action. I'm the relationship of those faces, whether they're related or not, that's least important. It is important that they intend to take over a particular legal person and actions of a particular legal person. It is unclear, here it is said that the concept of joint operation also includes when a management company manages several investment funds, on this agenda there was also a law on investment funds, and it was explicitly envisaged that management companies could manage several investment funds, so I don't know why they would be undermining it under this institute. Secondly, sanctions for joint action are in criminal provisions, such as a commercial offence, the possibility of punishment for those who act together is envisaged. A fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars is scheduled for a responsible person. However, it is a symbolic punishment for the benefits that certain legal and physical persons can achieve in this way, if this concept of joint action is misused. In the light of the Government's reasoning on this amendment, where they reject the SRS amendment to Article 4(6), they state that they have brought this institute together with EU directives, which shows not only in this law, but also in a series of laws adopted from the economic field, that they are non-critical of EU directives and that they do not see whether there is anything in the system or not, whether it is related to other laws or not, is this applicable in our economic and social conditions? It's simple, it's uncritical to prescribe laws. Generally, all the answers of the Government to the amendments to the SRS that their draft law is in line with one of the EU Directives, which cannot be a valid explanation and a valid reason for the refusal of amendments to the SRS. We tried to sort out this law with amendments and help bring it into line. However, the government gave negative opinions on all our amendments and did not accept them. We believe that for this institute in particular, it is absolutely unnecessary for this formulation regarding natural persons and their relationships. The Institute of Joint Action in its essence represents the acquisition of certain actions in order to control a particular legal person. I'm the relationship of those people who get action that way, whether they're related or not, and whether they're in Tasbus or not, they're completely irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27169	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. Paragraph 4 of Article 6 is amended as follows: "A person who, based on a takeover offer of 75 % or more of the voting rights shares, is required to publish a takeover offer". The remaining part of the text is deleted and Article 5 is deleted. Since the announcement of the law, offers have been frequented to take over Serbian firms. Many tycoons were governed by the past law, and many will cope with the new rules of the game. So far, about 500 companies have been privatized by selling minority packages. Only in the last year, otherwise a record for the sale of minority packages, this resulted in an inflow of about 100m euros, but if given what figure this is, that figure could have been significantly higher. The biggest problem, however, is the price of the takeover, along with the price of small shareholders' actions. How to defend yourself against the so-called. hostile privatisations? Is there a solution to the stock market? The question arises as to how effective defence can be in accordance with the rules of the stock exchange and the fact that it comes from accounting value, which in some ways is our invention, and that price, if there are no interested parties who, with a good commission or because of the threat, know to abstain or not to appear, so that it automatically lowers the final price by 20 percent. In practice, a shortcut can occur when a customer makes an offer to download, and already has the data provided, in advance all about the issuer, necessary for advertising, and by means of its own man, spy, engineer, as popularly said, in the firm. Small shareholders, who sometimes wait years to cash in their action capital, usually report on these ads in significant numbers, in fear of becoming in some way the owners of that dead capital. In such a situation, the price in the takeover offer does not have to be realistic, especially given that the accounting, nominal or price determined in some way by the palm of the palm of the hand does not have to be approximated to the market. That's why download can be considered a shortcut. When the process of taking over starts, then the media starts inter-defensing between companies, small shareholders and potential investors, in which suspicious investment funds from exotic islands can first be identified. It can be said freely that potential investors always come out in this media fight as winners, since they have financial resources to buy ads in high-end newspapers, on prime TV channels. Some journalists even engage in their campaign, and often know that the interests of their company or the fund for the takeover of a stock company involve and allegedly national interests, all in order to reach their own target. The cheaper the company and the almost defused actions of small shareholders, which in the media battle with the few mentioned financial power carriers are entering unorganised and under-supervised, with no additional financial resources to neutralize the negative media propaganda that the small shareholders are demoralising, is the primary goal of alleged potential investors, with suspicious capital anchored in the white world exotic islands.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 8. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Bozidar Koprivica, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment requesting that Article 8 paragraph 1 point 6 be deleted. Sticac is not obliged to publish a takeover offer if: 6) acquires action by changing the legal form of a company. There is an incredible possibility here that gymnastics is misused by Article 8 and that small shareholders remain deprived again, because we have seen in previous attitudes that in some way small shareholders can be denied and that one who can in one way or another acquire action, and many have gained Burazer privatisations in the previous period from 2000 to 2003, and from 2003 to 2006 can also continue, in a slightly different form. An explanation of why the Government rejected the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica - the amendment is not accepted; the envisaged exemptions from the publication of the takeover bid are in line with the EU Directive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see that Bulgaria and Romania will not join the EU for the next 10 years. A few days before they announced that they had given them ten more obligations to meet, and the first among them to root out corruption, and none of the EU countries had rooted out corruption, in Bulgaria, corruption flourished almost as well as in Bulgaria. However, the Bulgarians then spoke, you know, when we join the EU we will have to introduce visas to you etc. We will not enter the EU, or at least this government will not introduce us, and even if you try to introduce us, just as long as it comes to introducing us, the EU will not be. Therefore, do not comply with EU requirements, many more demands will have to be met before they think. "The laws on companies, as well as other laws in this area, cannot prescribe the obligation to publish an offer to take over the legal holder of actions that he acquired through legally implemented changes in the legal form of a company. Also, the bill regulates the legal holder's obligation to publish a mandatory takeover offer in case of further acquisition of the company's actions, following a change in legal form, preventing possible abuses." If point 6 is deleted, what is changed, except that various abuses and malfeasances will be disabled, because they have already gone according to our stock companies, where small shareholders have their share, where some have come to the majority package in one way or another, that they are no longer interested in taking over part of those who want to sell. Of course, there's no dividends, there's nothing and literally small stockholders' actions remain empty and worthless paper. By accepting this amendment, at least we would try to prevent a lot of things, and as far as this law is concerned, I think in the fall, the SRS will have to make a new law, which will be far different and far more applicable, far better for small shareholders, for holders of action and far worse for tycoons, who otherwise robbed this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27173	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27174	Many things in this Article 8 are not clear and can be interpreted on an arbitrary basis because it is written in one free text, some style figures that do not usually go into the law are used. I need to draw your attention to how Article 8. He has the title - Exceptions from the obligation to publish bids for download. It starts like this - the sticker is not obliged to publish the takeover offer if: 1) acquires actions of the target heritage society. Then it must be stated in point 1) that it is a physical person, because you, in Article 2, where you have given the definition of terms, have defined the conquistador as a legal and physical person, and the inheritance can only be carried out over a physical person. Second, if it acquires actions of the target society by sharing the joint assets of the spouses. It's got to be potential, though, that it's a physical face, because as it applies to us, you know what can happen. So these are exceptions, when the public is not informed and there is no obligation to publish a public offering to take over a society. I'd also like to draw attention to the following points in point 1. That is point 9) and it is stated at that point, but now I have to start with the introductory sentence, as the first attitude moves, in order to see what is written in point 9). ''Sticalac is not obliged to publish a takeover offer if: 9) is the sole objective of security of claims the bidder has towards society, provided that the trustee does not use the right to vote on the basis of acquired actions. '"To translate it now, it's a situation where actions are given as collateral, as a means of securing a claim. You already have a few issues here. The first one, with which it is moving, is that the sticker is not obliged to publish the offer, and then you have further to 'exclusive aim of obtaining a demand security action by the bidder', and the bidder in Article 2 is a natural or legal person who is subject to the conditions provided for by this law to publish the offer. So, you make an exception, you use the beginning of the sentence of the sticker, and in the text you go to the term of the bidder, for which there is an obligation to publish the offer. It's a little contradictory, maybe you should have thrown out these words in the first place. If the sole aim is to obtain an action to secure the claim against the company to be taken, provided that the trustee does not use the right to vote. But I have to tell you, if he's not using the right to vote, then that's not taking over, because the goal of the takeover is to achieve, or to change the ownership structure in terms of the person who has the action, because the one who gets the action, thus providing his right to vote. So this is about a classic bonding business, where actions are given as a means of security of claim to one society, and that's what we call a manual pledge over securities of value. It is not difficult to understand that point 9) has no place in Article 8, because it is not taking action and is not an exception in terms of taking action and taking over society. I have to say at first that with a small number of amendments we intervened, because it's really hard to understand this text, it has to be clear. Those obvious examples where there are legal inconsistencies, where there is confusion, where there is contradiction between members, we have kind of branded these amendments, first of all to draw attention to that this law will not be applied in a way, probably, which we all want to do. Since I have little time on this amendment to Article 8, to make one introduction for the next amendment also relating to this article, which refers to paragraph 3, where it is provided as an exception that there is no obligation to publish a public offering, if the government act is not otherwise defined, the provision of the law is not applicable, so there are cases when trading with actions of the Republic of Serbia. This is where you put the state union. Point 1) on the transfer of property without compensation to bank shares, from Serbia-Montenegro's state union to the Republic, under the law. And these other points, that I don't go into the entire text of this item 3, because that's what I'm going to talk about after me. I have to tell you, you see, I get the impression that there's some stuff going on. The Republic of Serbia, based on the conversion of the claim to economic operators, is a regulation where this claim can be shown in actions and that the Republic of Serbia will become the owner of some of the actions of a company, but I must draw your attention to the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia is exercising property rights in the name of state property and the Republic of Serbia and in these matters is an equal economic entity on the market. There is no possibility that she has some privileged position, because if the Republic has such a privileged position as you have come up with all of this, the question arises whether all other entities are equal when they participate in the market. I think that this principle of equality, in terms of equal terms and equal opportunities, is significantly annulled here, for all those who want to obtain in accordance with the provisions of this law, who want to take over the relevant companies in accordance with the provisions of this law. This is contrary to Article 3. The bill, where you have expressed the basic principles on which this law is based. You stated here that all shareholders of the target society are equal in the takeover process. If the Republic of Serbia has in its portfolio some of the actions of a business society, so there is still someone else who is a shareholder of that society, then I have to tell you that they are not equal. If, on the basis of the conversion, the Republic owns 30% of the shares of a company, and the others say 70% has another structure, something has gone to the Action Fund, so let it be 15% that it is employed, then the other shareholders are not equal with the Republic of Serbia. In what way? If the Republic of Serbia makes an agreement with someone who is interested in taking action, what about other shareholders, because maybe they don't want to. If you think you're guaranteeing their equality by the fact that whoever takes over the stock company is obliged to pay off the value of the shares to other shareholders under the same conditions, then we missed out on the subject. It's a question of the value of actions, not the question of the equality of shareholders. I don't think the Republic of Serbia needs a state as a shareholder, or when it has a portfolio of some action, to be so privileged, because if it is so privileged, it's not only a problem that someone who steps forward on behalf of the Republic might be in a position to abuse that authority from the point of view of the value of the action, but it's much more dangerous that it is able to read the buyer of these actions and who will take over that action society. This is a much greater danger, and there should be a connection with these discussions that you have just heard that there is an open danger, a clear danger, prescribed by your bill, for example, for Mladjan Dinkic to sell to his friends, let's say, state actions in some companies, banks, etc. And to be covered, amnesty by these provisions of the law. Therefore, we draw attention to the fact that you have this and a few other provisions of this bill that are directly contrary to the solutions you offer in Article 3. The bill, which at the level of principle speaks of the general principles on which this law was created. That is why I can say that individual views and individual points of Article 8, and the amendment refers to that article, contrary to the principles that were adopted as soon as the amendments were not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27175	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27176	Ladies and gentlemen, in an amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS by MP Branislav Rankic, part of the text in Article 8 has been requested to be deleted. This position 3 reads: "If the government act is not otherwise defined, the provisions of this law do not apply: 1) to the transfer of property without compensation on actions issued by banks, from the territory of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic under the Law on the regulation of relations between SRJ and legal persons and banks from the territory of the SRJ, which are original debtors or guarantors according to the Paris and London Club; 2) to the trade of actions issued by banks when the legal holder of these actions is the Republic under the Law on the regulation of relations between the SRJ", again according to the Paris and London Club's commissioners; 3) to the trade in actions issued by banks, when the legal holder of those actions is the Republic; 4) to trade in actions issued by banks, when it is in accordance with the law, the legal holders of these depositary actions; 5) to the shares of actions issued by the bank, when they have been subject to the law of twolaws , and the law of thelaw , in which have been imposed by the law of the law of theAgency. So the amendment was submitted to delete this part of the text. The amendment explains: "This kind of discrimination provided for in the attitude of the 3rd article exclusively serves to further conceal the abuse of Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus and enables privileged circles to continue to be rich." It could still be explained that the provisions of Article 8 are in paragraph 3. The Republic of Serbia is privileged to trade certain shares or securities of value, however you wish. In an explanation of why this amendment was rejected, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted. This provision allows the Republic of Serbia to choose the most favourable method of trade with its actions if it is the legal holder of the action." I guess all market participants are looking to choose the most favourable method of trading their actions. Furthermore, Article 3, which says: "The general principles of this law are as follows: 1) all the shareholders of the target society have an equal position in the process of taking over; 2) minority shareholders may, under the same conditions as the majority shareholders, sell their actions to the bidder; 3) the shareholders of the target society must be fully, accurately and timely informed" etc. So the aim of this law is to ensure an equal position for all those who trade in shares. What do we have here now? We have here that the Republic is privileged. What does it look like in practice? First, I wonder why Paris and the London Club are constantly mentioned here, when a few months ago, though, while they were still together, Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus cut some sort of cake, some great success, some huge billions written off, and what about the Paris and London clubs. Where's the law from now on? Either you've written that bill before, so let's go through procedure now or some serious and real write-off wasn't even there. Perhaps a debt that could not actually be attributed to Serbia could not have been legal persons from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, this applies to legal entities and banks from the SRJ territory. What banks? Those banks you have closed, which are in the bankruptcy and liquidation process, those banks when Mladjan Dinkic has granted them permission to work with an explanation – if these banks have to repay their debts, the stability of the national currency will be at stake, the state economy etc. will be questioned. The explanation for the abolition of these banks was that. The explanation was that we no longer recognise the debts of these banks, which was when Mladjan Dinkic was governor of the National Bank, and when he became minister of finance, we passed a law where the state took over the debts of these banks. Let me understand that the state is taking over the bank's debts based on the savings of citizens, deposits by sight, deposit contracts, etc. when it comes to citizens. No, the state takes all the responsibility, especially to the Paris Club and the London Club. The explanation was to protect the citizens. From who? From the Paris Club and the London Club? To whose harm? At their expense. Furthermore, let's remind ourselves what it looks like when the state broadcasts its actions, what it looks like when the state sells its banks, what it looks like when a certain bank, which initially has only a registration, or a National Bank's work permit and consent, signed by the then governor Mladjan Dinkic, is probably one table, one chair, one phone, suddenly becomes a state bank with majority state capital. All right. Suddenly, the National Bank of Yugoslavia is shut down by the Office for Accounting and Payment at the time, the business is being transferred to business banks, i.e. financial transactions are now being done by business banks and wonders - the National Savings Bank is entering the growing branches of the National Bank of then Yugoslavia. Shouldn't you say that space was exclusive? Usually, the accounting and payment offices were in the city's closest center. Usually, the value of this business space was more than in some other, perhaps a little further parts of certain centers. The question arises what about the infrastructure of the Department of Accounting and Payment, which, no one can dispute, especially not those of the Ministry and the National Bank, was one of the best in the world in terms of payment traffic; that they were all connected computerly, that, retail, the moment you handed over the payment order, the money was on the trustee's account. What about that infrastructure? She inherited the National Savings Bank. Then suddenly the National Savings Bank became a private bank. Owners Vuk Hamović and Vojin Lazarevic. Why? Sold by Djelic says Dinkic. Well, he sold Djelic, and with no acceptance of this amendment anyone can sell it. As it seemed, now that we're talking about taking over stock companies, how is now taken over by the National Savings Bank, which is mostly privately owned and in minority state by the Euro Bank. Then why isn't the state part of the capital sold under the same and same conditions? There are two reasons, one then the nominal value of the action would be much less. It took Mr. Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic to earn money. Now I ask the question, there is no minister here, and these laws have two authorised representatives of the promoter, there is no Dinkic, there is no Bubal, I am very interested in whether it is under the same conditions, meaning at the nominal value of one action sold and the state capital of the National Savings Bank, at the same price at the same rate as that part of the capital sold by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic? No one is in charge of this, and the provisions of this law stipulate that if someone buys a majority share of a stockholder's society and acquires the right to manage, the remaining one at the same cost to buy, at least at the same price. Are those provisions of this proposal respected? If they're not, then why do we have this law now? Has this law been pending since December 14th, so that he can be put in service when the job is done? So slowly, but surely one society of criminals finishes the job, the first stage, brings it to an end, so it closes financial structures, wipes the tracks behind it. Now we're going to do some different rules, and if business goes badly, we can again, in accordance with the law, buy actions beyond the provisions of the law, beyond what applies to all other shareholders, if that is allowed by the government act. So neither Mladjan Dinkic nor anyone in this country can have greater market powers, which should be free from any other participant. When it's clear to you, you won't write this kind of nonsense in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27177	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27178	In order for the public in Serbia to understand what this law is about, why this law is passed, and what it looks like, I have only one example, that something that was once in the Charter of Values Act, in the light of one or several members who empower the Committee on Papers, of value, to self-require the way of trade in actions and the takeover of a society, and some of the experiences that the Commission has had, and are known as some of the affairs of taking action. It is practically placed in this bill of law, of course complemented by several principled provisions that should seem a little more serious. Some experiences have been taken, and you remember that basketball player and influence, and women, and friends, and that swimmer's son, and others, and so on. And it's all being translated into the bill. What's the point of this bill? In essence, the takeover of AD is done as much under the control of the state as possible of the commission, rather than going to the stock market. And that's the whole point of this, to freeze one existing relationship, privileges and possibilities of bargaining. It's all settled in this law now. Mr. Disic has submitted an amendment to Article 18(1). A bill that tours the publication of ads, i.e. these offers. It shall be published immediately after the commission has received a decision authorising the publication of bids for download, in a daily list. Mr Disic asked to be completed after this -- he adds a word -- at least in one daily list distributed across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with a circulation of at least 100,000 copies, and let it go. After that comes the text - and can also be published on its website. Here this part of the sentence "and can be published on its website" can in practice be interpreted in different ways. Of course, everything that is subject to the obligation to publish in the newspaper, the legal obligation, does not prevent it from publishing on its website. But if it gets into the law and formulates it, it wouldn't surprise us to see it in practice as an alternative form of publication and to have someone conclude - well, if I don't publish it in the paper, where it's very expensive, I can go to the website, where it's pretty cheap for me. Although this reading could not interpret an alternative, there is already one legally prescribed obligation, and the other is an option put at the will of the bidder. Since we're looking for concrete norms, clear norms, that's why we've submitted this amendment to ask that these words be thrown out of Section 1. However, I will have to go back a little bit to previous members who are not covered by the amendment, in some connection with Article 18. I would draw the attention of MPs to article 10, which has the title - Publishing offers and voting rights: from the day of publication of the announcement of the intention to download until the day of publication of the download report. I couldn't exactly say, and I don't think the government's representatives could say how long that deadline would last. If the notice is prescribed that the date of validity of the offer must be at least 21 days, and for a maximum period of 45 days and that the prior completion of the deal with the Securities Commission, which is to give consent, it is likely that the time limit can be measured both by 60 and 90 days. Now, if that deadline is taken into account, then the actions of the bidder and the actions of the persons acting together do not give them the right to vote. In order to understand what actions these are, these are essentially the actions of those shareholders that they have, let's not be so much more than 25% of the actions, let's be about 25% of the actions. Now, 25% of the shares in one AD are qualified to participate in management. Usually these shareholders are those who participate and who create a business policy not only in terms of decisions of financial plans, but especially in terms of day-to-day commercial decisions. They can very easily influence others to change the value of actions and adapt those actions to those who intend to buy. Now, they'll probably come forward, if there's an opportunity to report someone from the government, he'd say -- that's not so, since there's a provision that speaks of the price of the takeover bid. This takes a three-month average of controlled stock values that are on the stock market, which is also something of an aproximate and similar to different changes, especially when the stock is on the stock market, they can often change their value by natural course of things, but also by appropriate shocks and appropriate stock malversions, and the stock is essentially based on malversions. Wherever the offer and demand is met, then the price appears as the ultimate effect, as a monetary expression of something, but what affected it to get to that price spectrum is infinite, so it is possible to go on both sides and on the other side and to make it all, as it is said, illegal, and thanks to the market streets legally. This provision is quite significant when viewed in the context of Article 18. I would also say that these one-day deadlines will in practice be inadmissible. Just so you know. Announcing the intention of taking over - a one-day deadline. You have a contradiction in Article 13. The tenderer shall be obliged to submit within one day of the date of the takeover obligation to the Commission a request for the authorisation of the publication of bids for takeover, bid itself, etc. Then later in one article you say that he must again inform the commission about the text of the offer published in the daily list. That's the same offer. You'll say if he's changed in the meantime. He and if he changed her, he also had to get the commission's consent and inform the commission. I do not know what is the purpose of this copy of the offer published in the daily list which is subsequently delivered. I know that in practice, when there was no law like this, when the whole matter of taking action was regulated by the decision and decision of the Securities Commission, there were cases like that, and I know that you want to in some way rule out the possibility that someone is going through a public procedure because there are no appropriate provisions of the law. Also, there are problematic provisions on the security of funds, evidence of the security of funds must exist immediately after this notice, because you have given three ways, three types of paper that are guaranteed that the funds are provided. However, I must tell you that it is with the bank to conclude a loan agreement for that purpose, then I must remind you that this is not a legal perfect takeover of a shareholder society. I don't know why the NBS would allow that credit activity of banks. The bank's credit activity would probably have to be banned in our terms. Why should it be banned? Let's see what the purpose of privatisation is. However, this is a takeover, it's already defined its own form. Now, you explain to me, since here in one of the previous members is given the possibility that without public announcement of the state's offer, the state can sell its shares, so that the state can sell shares to a legal person who knowingly provided through a loan to the bank? Is that contrary to monetary policy? With this five-year-old of yours, it's in direct contrast, because this monetary policy has the goal of stopping everything, of making as many reserves as can be guaranteed by paying foreign debts. How are you going to treat banks that have this credit activity, give legal persons or individuals credit for taking over shares, buying shares in this way? I guess the takeover should be done with the funds that exist, not crediting the takeover. I don't know, this has no economic justification. Why? Now let me explain to you what can happen to this? It can happen that someone deliberately knocks down the value of the stock and that someone, because they're in good relationship with the bank or because the bank wants to keep their capital through someone who would take action, gives him credit on favourable terms. Stocks are redeemed when a loan is due to be returned, he goes with some interest rate, and shares also grow in the market, and he sells the stock through the stock market, returns the principal, bank interest, and puts money in his pocket. That, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, is what this member allows. We don't have any control over the NBS anyway. This congregation can't even get rid of the governor. Even if it works the worst. Here's an operation for you on this case, I can tell you right now which banks will lend credit for this: Raiffeisen, Sosite General, this Djelic. They are not the chairmans of the boards of directors who are very smart or some of the major economists, but because these banks and some other banks have just been placed. Where do those funds come from? Various channels from exotic islands. Whose means are these? There's no minister to answer. I have no reason not to believe Batic, Veli Ilic and others who accused Mladjan Dinkic of knowing where 4.5 billion marks were in Cyprus. Where's the money? Eighty-seven boxes were brought from the SRJ embassy from Cyprus, Mladja Dinkic, where all the warrants were found, where the money was recorded, where the money was, where it was kept and how it went from the account. Let me remind you, Mladjan Dinkic said on his first visit – no problem, a billion and 300 can be transferred immediately. It's not gonna happen. Who launders the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and brings them here, and becomes a great owner, among other things, of taking over these companies, in accordance with the provisions of this law, which allegedly resembles everything that was an attempt by the Charter Commission to take action into some bearable frameworks. I can't say legally, because at the time the law didn't prescribe it, but it left it to the Securities Committee and the Securities Commission, after two debacles, public scandals, allegedly found some formula and here's that formula in this law. However, this law does not prevent, but only legalizes what we all had the opportunity to criticise.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27179	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27180	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia, I came out because of what happened in Montenegro, and because of the large number of people who call the SRS, because of the huge number of Serbs who have lost the state, 44.6% of them, 200,000 people. Unfortunately for us, tonight was celebrated in Zagreb, Tirana and occupied Pristina. Unfortunately for us, Serbia's enemies also rejoiced here in Serbia. Our message to those citizens who were in favour of the survival of the state community is to raise their heads, because they've kidnapped our country countless times. A new Podgorica Assembly will come, some new authorities will come in both Serbia and Montenegro. We'll fight for the common. Our goal, the goal of our policy will be to create a community with Montenegro, because we cannot accept that as part by part of our bodies they will tear us apart, piece by piece, and part by piece of territory and people. Here a million, here a million, here 200,000, here as much or as many. Our goal will also be to once and for all, because it is not our losing people and we will have to show it, and that is why I am telling all people in Serbia, head up. And after this tragic defeat of the Serbian people, to defeat this political scum in Serbia who has looked forward to this disaster and worse than that, so breathe as much as you will, and worse than that, because these are the enemies of this country, the enemies of the Serbian people, to defeat them in elections, pencils and paper, and to make our own country, and then slowly but surely to create conditions and to unite, and not to part again. To stop the world from coming together and Serbia and the Serbian people from breaking up, the states from breaking up, taking away, and the scum from us laughing in our faces and telling us how lucky they are to be able to take away another part of our people. You won't be able to do that. With the great support of some other centres, both Tirana and Zagreb and others, they managed to provide, without talking about polling places where and how, so as not to know what you're accusing me of, how it went and how it went. We promise from here, I promise the citizens of Serbia, I promise the citizens of Montenegro that we will never give up on that goal, and that this political scum in Serbia will be removed, won and established free Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27181	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27182	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 20. I have submitted a proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies in accordance with Article 3 and it is about the Central Register and the recording of complete actions in the Central Register. In fact, this injustice over taking over and enrolling all actions should be regulated by this law, so that when we look at the EPS and the EPS restructuring, we can say that these actions that are not entered and that are not at all restructured and singled out from the EPS, of course all actions should be entered. So, if one company is to be singled out and one private person needs to be bought, of course it is necessary to type in all actions, in order to privatise and purchase the company, as well as the list of assets in the company itself. In fact, the three laws on the establishment of stock companies itself refer to the law on taking action. So it's necessary to type in all actions and the list of assets itself, so the owner who buys one part of the company or the entire company must know how much he owes to the owners of the shares and can't buy anything if he doesn't know the real value and if the list of assets is not executed, etc. This is knowingly avoided, because we had several cases of privatisation, where it was seen that even the Securities Commission had to intervene on some issues, because there was not enough opportunity for action to carry out the privatisation process in order to be legal, even there was a violation of the law. Therefore, this Article 20 is in accordance with Article 3. All the conditions required, there are 11 conditions, I have proposed item 11a, where it is said that the Central Register's confirmation of taking over the complete actions of the target society, that is point 11a, is one necessity that needs to be introduced. So I suggest this is what we do in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27183	Anyone else want a word by amendment? (No) The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Suleiman Spaho, in front of the SRS MPs' club, submitted an amendment asking to be deleted in Article 23. Article 2 states: 'Concurent may not be a person acting jointly with a bidder within the meaning of Article 4 of this Act, as well as a person acting on behalf of the bidder in the takeover process. ''Article 4 of this Act clearly states which natural or legal persons acting jointly, and says ''1 if they have, by means of a contract, written or oral, or explicitly or tacitly agreed to act in concert with the aim of obtaining actions of the target society or to exercise the right to vote in the action of the target society; 2) if one of them holds actions for the account of another person. Physical and legal persons act together and when one of them, directly or indirectly, controls the other or other legal persons.' The Government's reply to why the amendment of MP Sulejman Spaha, who seeks to erase this position that a competitor cannot be a person acting jointly with a bidder within the meaning of Article 4 of this Law, as well as a person acting on behalf of the bidder in the takeover process, says: "Amendman is not accepted. By way of derogation from Article 23(2), The bill specifies which persons cannot be competitors, with the aim of avoiding price manipulation in the takeover offer. ''The SRS thinks the provision is too high and who else would make himself a competition. And if it's real, it's at its own expense. I think it's the manner of this government to make hornaday, vague, partially undefined legal projects. The fact is that the law must be clear, concise, accessible, understandable and understandable to everyone, each of the citizens of Serbia, from the eight-year-old school to the college. Suspension of unnecessary positions, as this law already regulated the question of who cannot be, in the members of the law no one benefits and harms only the citizens of Serbia, because they have unarranged or misconceived legal projects, which can be interpreted in one way or another. The objective of the amendment was to delete these unnecessary additions to the law and at least make the law a little more understandable. I believe this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27185	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27186	What is written in Article 23(2) should mean that interrelated persons cannot compete at the same time during the same download, and when I say the same download, it has its own time, geographical and personal dimension. If you look at it, it seems pretty logical. It is impossible for two connected persons, one to initiate the takeover process, and then the other during the process to allegedly offer a competitive offer, so it turns out that one of them has secured himself by surely taking over. I know the government seems a little strange that radicals suggest that something be deleted that is completely in line with the principle that it is not allowed, to prevent the abuse of what we called conflict of interest from being widely observed. But there's only one problem here, which we don't know the quality of a competitive offer. And the real offer and competitive offer regarding the part that interests the shareholders the most is quite defined by Article 22, where it is practically prescribed on the basis of which criteria determine the initial value of the action. The question arises, if one person is a bidder, so someone who is with him in related relationships gives a counteroffer, there is more question about the quality of the offer for ransom than the person. From the point of view of the shareholders who offer their actions, they are not disturbed by whether Pera initiated it, so Djoca, as his brother, interfered. It's interesting to the stockholder whether that dick offered more than Pera. That's what this is about. I understand that there is a general ban that the connected persons, who communicate with each other and in one part have some common interest, should not unfairly compete with each other. But this is a situation where company shareholders, whose actions are being taken, need in a correct way to achieve the highest price, because they also sell actions with voting rights and allow someone to concentrate management rights based on property so that they, as small shareholders, as the owners of one vote, take as much as possible. And you do this by solving one piece, but you don't guarantee the other which is primarily to satisfy the interest of those who carry their actions. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment. So you're a potential personal attitude, not a valuable attitude. The competitive offer may be worse, but it may be clouded by some additional additions, that there is not only a monetary expression of the value of the stock, the offered value for the ransom, but that there is another alleged benefit for shareholders who transfer their actions, and in a working relationship they are in the target society, and then in terms of some of their social status, then there is a big promise, then people say -- well, two percent lower is the value of competitive, to accept this competitive, because we have greater social rights. Well, then when all this is over, it's clear that social rights have nothing to do with it, you're asking for the fulfillment of the contract, and then you go to Lalovic's agreement, because from the status of shareholders, it turns into self-employed status. Now the stockholder's busy, and he might be self-employed. Where are your social rights? They're gone. Is it slow with the majority shareholder? Yes, it is. Where he's getting rid of himself. At Lalovic's, calm down. That's it. That's it. That's it. We believe that the competitive offer should have been more defined from the point of view of the value and amount that the competitor gives in the takeover process than you have demonstrated here, possibly or associated with something that may seem to be a conflict of interest between the bidder and the counter-supervisor. You only gave one aspect of it. The other logical question being asked is, well, if someone offered, and said that the stock was worth 10,000 dinars, and his connected face said that the stock was worth 11,000 dinars, why would they prevent that counterproposal and what would be the interest of the bidder to offer more through countersupply when he was the only one before that. So if you were to define a counter-offer, then you had to sort of define it from the point of view of value, what it means for those who should possibly sell their shares, which is the quality and profit of a small shareholder. You've accessed a single personal definition of counter-proposals. You can find an excuse for saying that two interconnectors can hook up with something about this ad. I probably can, but if one of them makes an offer, the other one makes a bigger offer, that's better for a small shareholder. You're preventing them from competing with each other. It can be justified from the point of view of conflict of interest. But the bottom line of your member is to define the bidder and the counter-offer, not to worry about the quality of the offer. Everyone expects this law to be an appropriate provision that says that whoever comes forward with a counteroffer must in every aspect have a better offer than the one who opened the whole process. It's the only criterion that can apply. Why? Someone offered an offer, had a connected face, so he estimated if only his offer went, someone else would come and offer a slightly stronger counteroffer, so that he wouldn't be surprised, he threw in his etc. Here I'm throwing a weight to the benefit of a small shareholder, not what you're suggesting, some conflict of interest. You can defend your position on the purpose of the provision of article 4, which speaks of joint action, but I must say that here only defines this kind of relationship between legal persons. The prohibition shall only exist in Article 23(2). It should probably exist when it comes to simulated transactions, when it comes to laxative jobs, when it's so obvious, but I think it's also excluded, given that counterproposal occurs with the Securities Commission and the only criterion for the Securities Commission, when counterproposals occur, is the quality of that offer. It's an invitation for small shareholders to sell their actions. A small shareholder if he sells his shares is interested in achieving a better price. From that personal point of view, it doesn't matter to them at all whether it's Pera or Dick, it's important to define it for the one who gives it a higher price. Here he will report in practice when offers are at the border, some other social components appear, and a small shareholder is the one who is both a shareholder and an employee of the company. He, in addition to the stimuli of taking as much as possible, has the interest that his social and labour law status is clear, defined, better than it was, and there he can be most deceived. There's a possible scam. Therefore, the Securities Commission must value the quality of the counterproposal. If the countersupply is better than the offer, it can exist. If the countersupply is worse than the quality of the offer, it must not exist. It's a basic principle, not whether Pera offered or Djoca, and they're brothers from the aunt. You've completely turned the problem around, you've put it on the other side that's not interested in the little stockholder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27187	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27188	Article 28. The bill on the takeover of stock companies reads: ''The shareholder cannot deny the right to withdraw actions from the deposit account. The bidder cannot call for a statement by the shareholder on the right to withdraw actions from the deposit account. ''So, Mladjan Dinkic, who is supposed to represent this law in the government, but he's probably celebrating somewhere with Milo Djukanovic, this Serbian tragedy, so he's not here, he thinks Serbian citizens are stupid and he's going to interfere with the law whether Serbian citizens, i.e. small shareholders, will withdraw their actions or not, and whether they're going to use their right or not, and he says the shareholder can't give up the right to withdraw action. How can the law predict such a truly incredible provision and in this way the law, or state, directly interferes with the rights of small shareholders. I guess it's a little bit of Dinkic and Labus for all those criminal acts, about taking action so far and what they're doing with state action, and now they should be thinking on behalf of small shareholders. I don't know if they know what the property is, I don't know if they know what the action is and that whoever has the action can do with them literally whatever they want. I think you should really say thank you, don't take care of Dinkic and take care of the rights of small shareholders, at least not in this way, and you should now get into the head of every small shareholder and tell him what he's going to do, whether he's going to give up the right to retreat, whether he won't. It's just that this is such an excessive provision that I can't believe that anyone has ever thought to put a provision like this into the bill. Then says the government of the Republic of Serbia, since Milorad Buha, an SRS MP, has suggested that this member be deleted, says the amendment does not accept and by which explanation. A provision of Article 28, the government says, the bill prevents the possibility of manipulation of shareholders' rights. How can he prevent the possibility of manipulation if he restricts the shareholder in his position of action. Listen now: 'This provision is of great importance to protect the rights of shareholders, given the lack of information and the lack of experience of small shareholders in the Republic, which are therefore exposed to possible abuses. '"Where there will be greater abuses than if Mladjan Dinkic were their finance minister. He says, imagine who it is to underestimate, which is to insult the intelligence of this people when he says, given the lack of information and the lack of experience of small shareholders. Don't worry this way and don't accidentally think that you're smarter than small shareholders, and that you're more informed and that you have more experience. Of course, the Serbian government as well as the two previous ones has much more experience in thieves, in crime, in abuses and small shareholders, and the overall public of Serbia knows that. So please don't take care of small shareholders this way. Let your people do their deeds as they please, and let them give them away, and let them do whatever they want. They know these citizens, small shareholders, for which reasons they want to do or do no shop to make available to their actions. Indeed, it is inappropriate for this Article 28, and in particular the government's argument offends Serbian citizens, insults the intelligence of Serbian citizens, and so indeed in this government, no one in any government has the right to behave like this, and especially to write it like this. You know, he tried to have Labus' actions with small shareholders when it came to "Knjiz Milos", so he didn't give a shit about the leg one day, and the day before and the day after, he was in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and only on the day that Danon's representative came to Serbia, he couldn't come to the government, and then he received a representative of Danon at his house and arranged a whole job. Then he was denied the obedience of Milko Stimac and, of course, the man almost ended tragically because he disobeyed Labus and did not break the law. So, that's your way of making yourself available, you would like, or the Serbian government would like to get involved in all the pores and places where it doesn't belong, especially there, but gentlemen of the Serbian government, in fact there is no government representative here, regardless of this Rules of Procedure and with respect to you who are doing what you are told, this applies to the government, to Dinkic above all, or to Vojislav Kostunica, because Dinkic is his minister, do not take care of Serbian citizens in this way. Take care of Serbian citizens as expected from a normal and fair government. Take care of government affairs, at least try to make them a little less, if that's even possible in this government, especially in this encrypted part of this government. So, he suggests on behalf of his colleagues Buha and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because he submitted the amendment, that this amendment be accepted to delete Article 28, and that Dinkic, on behalf of the government, apologized to Serbian citizens that he had even thought that he was insulting Serbian citizens in this way, to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. Well, Dinkic, most citizens in Serbia are much, much smarter and smarter than you, and you'll see it in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27189	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27190	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have heard from your colleague Radeta, this member of the 28th that Mr. Buha proposes to be erased, not only is he inappropriate and insults the dignity of every citizen, who is ready, and this is his personal decision and his right, to put his actions in the stove of Smederjevac. Of course, no one will do that, but there are so many cut-off people, as did the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, 15 years ago, when the first Privatisation Act was passed. You can't get into the right of one man if he's going to give his shares for a beer box or he's going to compete in the market and try to reach some value. I've reported in this remaining amendment time to potentiate one question and one problem. Who knows how many of these problems are in Serbia. The deputy minister is here, Mr. Angelic, but I don't believe he's in the department of finance, these issues. Mr. Angelic, it is important to you that the governor has given consent to increase interest rates on these interest rates for loans, so the people, the one who ran and who has to pay for electricity and all taxes, and is forced to take these loans, must now do so with 2-3% more interest. What does not concern the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and in order to deal with the Trade Court, when by yesterday Kljajevic was the President of the Trade Court and protected as a white bear, and who to complain about, when he decided in all these proceedings, I want to talk about small shareholders of the "Stava - Kovacnica" from Kragujevac. The flag - Kovacica was taken over by the crisis headquarters after the five-octobar mafia coup, just like the entire Car Factory, the Zastava Group in Kragujevac. Very harmful contracts have been made for the factory, and small shareholders, several hundred of them, won't mind me, I think it's 600-700, and day-to-day, and a few days ago they came to our party's premises in Kragujevac, where I am, where they can always find me as an MP, to try to talk. They also sent a letter to the President of the Republic. What does he know? He has nothing to do with it, and he doesn't care about it. When he could have said that he was carried three times as a kid in a cradle in Montenegro and did not care that separatists, with the help of the Shipara, broke the common state, what does he care about small shareholders from the Kovacnica or a hundred factories in the country. Or Kostunica, whose first minister, who was subsequently a failed candidate in the presidential elections, promised those same people that he would review the privatisation process. One such factory, with a hundred years and a larger period of tradition, was prepared to work 24 hours constantly under NATO aggression, and when those 16 impact missiles fell on the flag, to experience such a fate, and people who can't even exercise their rights today, and then you're making a law that says they can't have that right and decide what they're going to do with actions, it's really amazing. A lot of people have experienced under DOS rule. They experienced the sale of cementers for three euros, sugars also, to stay out of work, to lose 15,000 people in Kragujevac in one day, that their fate is uncertain, and what will happen to them, because they are at this Employment and Education Service by September, next to God ask what will happen, it is some church they receive or do not receive, of which absolutely cannot live, nor minimum to satisfy. And those people, who worked hard, are also concerned with those who were in charge, and who were literally automatically driven away from that ominous October 5, 2000, and gathered around them, have no opportunity to exercise their rights, because courts do not do their job, neither the prosecution, and because they, because they have lost their jobs, because they were not at the will of the then mafia DOS regime, and the leadership that continues so incompetently manages the Car flag factory, Kragujevac, and today as small shareholders, they cannot exercise their rights. We are talking to you about this because we are the only party that has since the beginning, advocating the privatisation process, and that we can break up with this period of communist Brozomania, which has contributed and led so far to the Separatist brotherhood in Montenegro, with the help of Shiptar, do what she did yesterday, so when we talked about this legacy and the need to privatise social enterprises, we talked about a fair and privatization that will not cause the workers to suffer harm, let alone run out of work. Our darkest hunches, unfortunately, came true by your coming to power and your predecessors. There is no change there, absolutely the same method of action, the same way of rule, the same way the courts work, the same way the Privatisation Committee, the Privatisation Minister and the Agency, the entire mafia clan. No one can exercise those rights. Ask the workers of the C Market, those who for years have broken the threshold of the Republic government, while Radulovic sat here as a MP, what they think of you. What do they think of you now that you've put yourself in action to catch Radulovic, as one of the leading tycoons in the state. Who are you telling these stories that you're going to deal with crime and corruption, and it's so universally present? It's criminally how you rule and how you've been acting for all this time while criminals and traitors of Serbia, separatists, scum, all the worst things that exist in the human race in general, all of this has been done in that pre-referendum and referendum campaign, and I'm not talking about the fact that you've ruined the people and the state economically and socially completely. If you have any honor and morals, you'll be on your own as soon as we get to the position of the people voting and having elections. If this day is not enough for you to remember, and it is enough for you to cross over from day to day, to gather yourselves together for the beginning of the day, for the day of the vote, to come, to sit down, and to leave, then there is nothing of you as of men, and not to speak of your political parties, and of what awaits the people with such authority. I hope you won't be long.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27191	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27192	Members of 34 and 35 have common logic and represent one whole. Mr. Peric will discuss article 35, which has the title - Forced shopping, and I will talk about article 34, which has the title - Forced sales. Of course, I'm asking the amendment to delete article 34. Why delete it? Because he actually denies the property rights that arises from the fact that someone has an action. As you set out in Article 34, he is reluctant to sell his action. You're in the government's view of our amendments, I'm really ashamed to read what you wrote here, because what you wrote has nothing to do with what's written in Article 34. It's a bill of law. You're interpreting this as a stockholder's right. That member has the title - Forced sales. Who's selling? He's selling stockholders. If he's forced to sell, where's his right? When you say "force," that means there's a commitment, and that obligation is carried out with a monopoly of physical coercion. It's not that stuff here, so it's to use Jocic, SWAT, gendarmes, but there's the Central Register, etc. I don't mean to insult anyone, but in this article, there is organic corruption in the way of thinking. What's this about? Item 1 states: "When the bidder takes over at least 95% of the actions of the target society (so he was already 25, so he bought out and came up with 95% of the actions of one society; so there are only 5% left with one, five or 200 shareholders, and now, this bidder) has the right to buy and take action from shareholders who have not accepted the sale of shares under the offer (inadmissible shareholder), and according to the terms of the takeover offer. '"So, he has an obligation to buy under the same conditions as he bought. Now, what if the little shareholders, that one, five or twenty of them, or five hundred of them don't want to sell their shares? Who can make someone who has the right to sell something? There's one variant when there's this coercion, it's in case of expropriation, but then it goes for a fair fee. In the case of expropriation, as a rule, because the land is being brought in according to an urban project, property rights are denied, land transfer is carried out, and a fair fee is paid to the former owner. If no agreement can be reached before the Finance Secretariat, nor in the outsider procedure, there is some procedure as to how fair compensation is determined. That's one exception, when the owner is limited to the property rights he has and it has some justification because it's a fixed property, because he can't put the immovableity in his pocket and go to another place. Here are the actions, the formal-legal action is, if we view it as something that's in space, paper, but if we look at what it contains and what these rights are, it contains property rights. What kind of property rights? In an ideal part compared to something that represents the whole. The fact that it's a whole can be immobility, it can be mobility, there can be money in a legal person's account. Now you're making someone who doesn't want to have it, and here it's at his disposal, someone who doesn't want to have it, you're making him available, and in your opinion, you're saying it's his right to protect a small shareholder. If someone's a small shareholder and knows the rules of that AD to them, so-called. Insiders, who have both actions and who are employed sufferers, that is, using some benefit, can formally and legally put anything in their founding acts today, why would you force him, if he didn't want to. He doesn't want to sell the stock, he doesn't want the funds, he wants to take the dividend. He says - I have enough resources, these actions in this company are safe, at the end of the year they bring me some income, I'm interested in that income, I have some personal problems that I think I can solve, or that action stands for me as a means of my personal security for God's sake when it comes for a while. You're practically forcing such a person, or you're not forcing him, but you're putting him in a position that he's lost action, that he allegedly sold it. How do you do that? Now there goes that corruption. The bidder, let's say we put Canet Frog as the bidder, you've heard of this criminal with cigarettes. He financed both Djindjic and Djukanovic and Sreko Kestner and Hrvatskat, both here and there, and he financed everything. It's the one who made jeans in India, came from France as a big businessman. The Cane Frog decides to buy something. He bought up 95% of a company and now there are five or twenty people who hold those 5% shares, and they don't want to sell. They say - The Cane Frog is a big con man. He gets big money out of the company, he has to show dividends at the end of the year, because he's suffering from it now because he doesn't have status. So he solved the money, the crime solved the Latifundi, the islands, etc. He now lacks status in jet-set society, to be respected, to be respected, etc. That's the second motive in the list of nine motives that drive a man to some kind of activity. He's got this motivational factor now very pronounced, and even in years, he's been chasing these 17-18-year-old kids, so Jay Ramadanski's making it there with Mila that gymnasium. You know, that's what we wrote about five years ago, when you thought he was a big businessman, a regular fuck, a criminal. You see, he's got 95% share of something and he's got five dead-end radicals in that company that won't sell the stock. They say he's a thief, so I guess we'll take a dividend too. He's got to show it. Now, what cane frog is doing, now we're going to point two, as Junior imagined. This is where the Cane Frog was accidentally taken. We can take the others from the animal kingdom. It's no problem. Since Brana Crnchevic wrote the book "Serbian country of nicknames", I think. He says like this, so Cane Frog submits to the Central Register, through a member of the Central Register, it is no problem, a request for forced sale of shares of incompatible shareholders, it is those five, no later than 120 days from the day of the end of the tender and takeover deadline. One hundred twenty days is four months. Think about what can happen to those actions in four months? I agree, under those conditions, how he took over and got to 95%. In the meantime, anything can happen to that action, the action can grow. His law guarantees that he will at the price at which he bought it. If the stock grew in the meantime, then he'll buy at the lower price he bought. So you guarantee him safety, so for 120 days he can think about when he'll file for the Central Register. You didn't write like this on some provisions - the next day, right now, not 120 days. He's been thinking for four months, and on the last day, he's submitted to the Central Register. In the meantime, there's been a lot of action. In addition to indicating the terms of the purchase of the shares from the takeover offer, it calls for what was done 120 days ago, payments made, etc. Well, then, the bidder is obliged to demand, at the same time, that he publish the same thing again in that newspaper, that's where the site is now lost. You know, we were just talking about that website getting kicked out of Article 18, and it's not here. So this isn't so interesting anymore, that's why we submitted the amendment because we saw you making it there with article 18 of some prank. And now he says, at the end of the 15 days since the day of publication of the notice of Article 3 "on the written request of the bidder, the Central Register is transferring from the account of the paper of the value of the incompatible shareholders (first, I don't know which ones are incompatible, which they would have to agree with Canet the Frog, on which I can never agree, God forbid that I am a shareholder where he has some action, in order to be compatible with him, impossible) on account of the charter of the value of the bidder, or money at the expense of the incompatible shareholders, in a manner prescribed rules of business of the Central Register". That means, the Central Register says -- here's your money, here's your stock transfer, you took the money, and you're out of stock. This is your forced sale. Mr. Sreto Peric will go in the other direction of the story, where there is a right, but we are giving another variant that you of course did not accept again. So -- through coercion, of course not by beating, but through two requirements and one notice, someone out of the AD just because someone made a huge concentration of funds and bought 95% of the shares. In this opinion, you are referring to the EU Directive. Please, this EU directive does not oblige us. Why? We are not members of the EU. As far as I know, in what you from G17 did, it was because of the dissatisfaction that Labus went there, and Ksenija went to Miniæka to the European Movement, as they were called, something like that, you know, get out of that story, there's nothing there. Half of these directives and recommendations do not respect France or Germany. They cannot provide for the implementation of their alleged directives and regulations within EU countries, and you are putting us in here as if it were a standard. If that's the standard, why don't you tell me why the French, the Italians, the Spanish, the Portuguese, the Greeks don't use it? But here's the illusion, so when you get on TV to jerk off -- the EU, the accession process, people get scared and think -- if we don't get into that Europe, we're all flooded. It's not like that. You will answer for disabling the public and lying to Serbian citizens. Nothing depends on joining the EU. Why? They've been planning us for 30 years, and then there won't even be an EU. Compare. Twenty-thirty years is supposed to take place, but none of it's gonna happen. Never. You have to understand that. You can't be right when you talk about the EU, so now the EU says we won't, and you're right again to talk about going to the EU. The voters aren't that senile. They move a little bit, so they see whose story it is, where it's true, where it's not true. Because of this untruth that's been promoted here for six years, you've killed the state. First you broke the C.R.J., made Solania, and now it's moving on. You still can't handle your resignations. Whatever you're getting yourself into, it's dry. You still can't stand your resignation. So this article hides a prank and violently kidnaps a person who doesn't want to have it. The person doesn't want money, wants to have action and use those rights in companies based on the possession of these actions. That's the face you're exorcising. You're literally exorcising. Why? Because you're giving Canet the Frog right so that for 120 days he can think about removing that micro-actionary so he doesn't mind, because small shareholders have some rights. It will change attitudes in our courts, many things in a few years, don't worry, and then the small shareholders will also have their own protection of their rights. Then there will be changes in the rules on showing, as business costs are recorded, everything, everything, so the small shareholders will be protected, because the profits will have to be shown to be fulfilled primarily by the state, because all the wealth of this world comes from being stolen or not being committed to the state. In failure to comply with the obligations to the State, there is selectivity. If you're close to the authorities, the government's letting you off the hook. If you're not close to the government, then you're doing more 10% to 20% more than you owe. Why? To keep quiet, to keep quiet. These privileged can also open up the energy exchange in Red Caprica, and here another stock exchange, and third, to cooperate, to be 'in' and so on. So we suggest that this member be deleted. Why? Because not only is it contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it is also contrary to natural law. It's the right property that a man has. Without the right property, a man is not free. A man who has property, who is protected, is a human being who enjoys human rights and can freely use his human rights, and when he has such provisions regarding coercion, then a citizen is not free. So you're arresting citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27193	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the 35th Act on the acquisition of stock companies and in article 35, I have suggested that the number '95' be replaced by '80' and the number '5' by '20'. I will now comment on that, but before I move on to the arguments made regarding accepting this amendment, I must say that I was not surprised at all that Minister Mladjan Dinkic did not accept this amendment. He's trying to accept something left over from G17 plus these days. National MP Zoran Krasic commented on the amendment to the 34th Act on the takeover of stock companies, which is about forced sale, and this is about forced purchase. The SRS has no objections against forced purchase institutes, but we have proposed to protect small shareholders, given that in recent times close to millions of people, or over 500,000 left without work, a total of about a million people, in a small way we try to protect their rights and enable them to make as much dividend as possible. Given that the government that has now promised, or one of the political parties that the government has promised to carry out a privatisation review and that there is nothing of it, we cannot intervene on this right now, but we can, by means of an intervention through a number of amendments, try to protect the rights of the unemployed, i.e. the owner of a number of actions. It is said in Article 1 35 - when the bidder bought at least 95 shares, whether it was 25 at the first moment, when he gets a qualified majority to participate in the decision, and then up to 95% of the target society, the majority shareholder is obliged to buy the shares of the remaining shareholders, on their request, and under the terms of the takeover offer. We in the SRS suggest that this percentage of 95 be reduced to 80, so that a slightly larger number of stockholders can be protected, because a majority bidder or majority shareholder does not want to take over, or buy out shares between 80% and 100%, and in such a way that it devalues and leads to a difficult and unfavourable position of a small shareholder, which makes it logical that this percentage of 5% is left with 5%, if these 95% decrease, then that percentage would be 20%. The deadline within which they have the right to offer to sell their shares is six months. We didn't intervene in that part. What makes the procedure itself and the essence of this article, we haven't changed anything at all, just so this percentage changes, but it's very interesting and an explanation of the government which is why it doesn't accept this amendment. There are two reasons, and I'm going to do the order that the government has led me to comment on them. It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the EU Directive foresees such percentages in a similar area. Earlier, MP Zoran Krasic said that this directive is not mandatory and we are not a member of the EU, so this directive does not oblige us. Another reason for not accepting the amendment, it is said that the Business Society Act is about an indicative percentage accepted. He's not even regulated by the Company Act, these percentages are not indicated, so there's no obligation here, but you're among the two reasons that were thought to be valid, quality, and you should put the one that comes out of the so-called. EU directives, which in no way can be true. Otherwise, this provision of Article 35 is set out in Part 3 of this Act on the completion of the takeover procedure and could remain that way. I hope that these tortures and small shareholders and citizens of Serbia will not last long and that we will soon have elections in Serbia, and then the SRS will work in a different way when it comes to power and this and other laws that we have adopted quickly, in a way that corresponds to the citizens of Serbia. Because last night watching a TV show, I was able to see one of our fellow MPs who hasn't been in this room in six months. He says this parliament looks like everything except what it really should be, and it has mostly contributed to the sale of the largest number of economic operators in Serbia, under suspicious circumstances. And today, they contribute to the way this parliament works, but the SRS takes it seriously, because it represents these interests not only of its voters, but of all Serbian citizens, and those who may have the right to not be found there at a given time are using this business law. Personally, I think that between the rights stemming from the Rules of Procedure and the obligations made by Serbian citizens before us, it should always be defined for the obligations that Serbian citizens make before the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27195	Anybody else answer for a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for an amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric on behalf of the 35th parliamentary group. When it comes to the fact that the bidder has purchased a high percentage of the actions of the target society, it is necessary to protect minority shareholders, who are somehow left to the will of the majority owner. The amendment requires that the percentage of 95% of the purchased shares be replaced by 80% and therefore the percentage of 5 to be replaced by 20%. The reason is simple and I think it's acceptable. It is a very small number of companies where even 95% of the actions of the target society were purchased and this legal provision would in some way include fewer shareholders, and thus companies. If amendments by MP Sreta Perić were accepted, the number of enterprises would be significantly increased, and thus small shareholders, to whom this proposed amendment would apply. It is obvious that the past privatisation was in fact merely a lucrative business for the chosen circle of people, and those who are close to the current Serbian ruling establishment. It's here on the part of the so-called. hostile privatisation. Then it is alluded, of course, through the media, in ordered reports, that some company must not take over, for example. someone from another country and so on. However, the biggest enemies are those who buy through their connections to the bagatel by taking the stock control package, then making the property and reselling at significantly higher prices, making enormously high profits. It's actually a hostile takeover. The company closes down, or what remains of the company, workers remain on the street and it is a real picture and opportunity of the transition. Here's what it looks like in figures that will show how successful the former Dossian government was, as well as the current one when it comes to privatisation and how in some ways they left a large number of Serbian citizens without a job and a state of Serbia without property. By the end of 2005, more than 1,500 companies were privatised or, rather, robbed of state property. In 230 companies, decisions by state authorities, the privatisation was annulled. More than 1,000 companies are looking for a review of privatisation, a new estimate of capital and a break-up of sales contracts. For about 150 privatised companies, bankruptcy is being prepared, workers are on the street, and the value of small shareholders' actions has been drastically reduced. It's actually so-called. hostile privatisation. Rarely, those who have increased production, invested additional capital, increased wages, etc. They are not like some frauds, as invested capital depicted the grandfathers of meadows on some remote mountain, whose arch costs as if it were in downtown Belgrade. The biggest target is those companies that were privatised under the old law 15 years ago, and some even from the days of Ante Markovic, where the majority package is a 60% stock owned by small shareholders. It's these companies that are being chased from the inside in order to weaken and then to knock down the stock value cheaply. When workers are not paid for a long time, then after a year, they are offered the opportunity to sell actions that will satisfy some of the needs of life. Small shareholders will sell their shares immediately, although at a significantly reduced price. So the psychological fact has done its part and the workers will be satisfied for a few months or a few years, while the employer will take over the company for the time being and with his people, who have prepared the ground for him before coming, will make a huge profit for themselves. In such situations, the employer knows to tell those who have not sold their shares that they will no longer buy shares, making small shareholders appear to have worthless papers in their hands that the employer will not. With this amendment, the employer's obligation would be to buy out small shareholders' actions if it had 80% of its own shares instead of only 95%. The employer will, for example, come from 75% to 95% right now with action security tactics, or will not buy them out. Then the shareholders will sell because of the difficult living conditions, which the people say, after-why. That is why I believe that MPs in the voting day will accept this amendment and that the position of small shareholders in Serbia will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27197	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38 of Section 1 which reads: to delete. Since the SRS is mainly in this law on the takeover of stock companies, members are deleted for reasons why the law refers to something else. This law is simply an instrument for taking action from small shareholders and forced, minors, taking action. In many situations and examples of privatisation in our country, it has been done in such a way. In Article 38, which states that the Management Board of the target society is obliged to make written introductions to the employees of the target society on the takeover offer. I would ask the representatives of the government and the ministry to tell me where and where this is going to happen in this way and that it will be a target society, i.e. the paw on which an individual of the target society will meet the shareholders on the real situation and will certainly do as they should and at the right market value. In such situations, brokers, dealers who simply lobby for individuals who put their paws on the stock company and target group begin to mix. I think this member should be deleted. In the government's explanation, where the amendment I have submitted is not accepted, it states that the bill regulates the obligation of the management board of the target society to meet the employees on the takeover bids prescribed by the EU directive. This is for every member who has submitted an SRS explanation, and for us Serbian radicals, which is the EU's goal in our country, anyone is the goal of individuals who want to buy and kidnap from small shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27199	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 which should be changed in its entirety so that it reads: "against acts adopted by the Commission may be objected within eight days of the date of receipt of the act to the Ministry of Finance Affairs. The ministry's decision may be triggered by an administrative dispute before the court in charge." I submitted this amendment in order to protect small shareholders, and I expected the bill to also be aimed at protecting small shareholders. However, the law here protects employers, and the rights of small shareholders have been severely violated. This amendment would correct Article 43, which states that "the acts taken by the commission are final", means the deed, no more, the commission is a sacred letter for small shareholders, and if it makes any decision it cannot appeal. ''According to the acts of the commission, the intended party may initiate an administrative dispute. '"So, he can go to court, he can go to litigation and when he'll never exercise his rights. This solution just wanted the protection of small shareholders, that the Commission's decision on securities of value could be complained to the Ministry of Finance, and if it received a negative response from the Ministry of Finance, then, in a second-degree procedure, a small shareholder could seek protection from the court. Only in this way can two-stage protection and protection of small shareholders. However, when I proposed this amendment, I didn't think that, as you say, the commission and their decisions would be final and will probably be confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and I don't think the Ministry of Finance that is now working to help any small shareholder or small shareholders, but it is necessary to put this in the bill because this government is going to take a very short while, so some new government, some new finance ministry, will come to see realistically everything that small shareholders are looking for and protect precisely those small shareholders that their rights are respected in front of the finance ministry. And not as you suggested in the bill that what the commission is finally making and that a small shareholder can only cry over his fate why the decision to take his actions or violent sales took place. I therefore propose and beg the MPs to vote for this on the day of the vote. It will not change much in the law, but it will give small shareholders a chance to, if they are unhappy with the Commission's decision on securities of value, and the Commission is not a sacred letter, that they can object to the Ministry of Finance in the first degree, and if they are not satisfied with the Ministry of Finance's decision to seek their rights and to protect their rights in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27201	On the occasion of the amendment, the word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the beginning of this assembly, we have warned you that you are making institutions out of the auxiliary bodies, from the commission you are making state bodies against whose decisions the maltenes are impossible to appeal. Right now, it's coming to the surface of a situation like this. The Commission is undeniable. The Commission’s decision is final. You have no one to complain to, but a administrative dispute before the court. Then why are we serving the ministries? The Ministry is an institution, and the commission is just an auxiliary body and all agencies, all so-called. working groups, accounting and agencies are the auxiliary bodies of the ministry, which should do the job for him. It's a state organ and it can decide. Of course, I don't mean this ministry, and I don't mean this minister, because when he decides, most of the time, the people hold onto his head after that. I don't see why this amendment shouldn't be accepted. I don't see why the explanation is the way you gave Mr. Kragovic. It says - the amendment is not accepted; the provisions of this member's two-stage decision have already been secured by the fact that the dissatisfaction by the dissatisfaction can trigger an administrative dispute against the Commission's actions. It's just that there's still no need to ban a man from suing when he's damaged. If you could, and you would have built it into this law. You have no right to an administrative dispute, the commission's decision is appropriate. Remember how damaged small shareholders have remained through all those burazeric privatisations of enterprises in Serbia. SRS MPs have mentioned an example of "C Market", remember the department stores, see how many small shareholders have been given shares and which you slowly but certainly turn into worthless papers. That's enough manipulation. I propose that we adopt this amendment in the voting day and at least try to grant this law a little bit, although since September some new assembly of this assembly will be passing some new laws, which will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the people, and this will go on the shelf, as one of the failed attempts at total abuse in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27203	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27204	Article 43 raises one question: what is the legal nature of the acts brought by the Securities Commission? We talked about it a few days ago when some other laws were on the agenda which also questioned the competence of the Securities Commission. It would not be a good idea to now, according to automation, that the solution that is there is interpreted as having to be present here, because I can turn it differently, by opening up the question of the legal nature of the Commission's securities act in this law at the same time, I am opening up and objecting to the solution given in the Securities Market Act. In order to better understand this, I would just like to point out that in the election of a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, Article 72 has been cited. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without a concrete indication of the appropriate point, simply pushed everything and everything from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. It has introduced property and bond relations, the protection of all forms of property, the legal position of enterprises and other organisations, their associations and chambers, the financial system, the system in the area of economic relations with abroad, the market, planning, working relations, employment, social programmes, as well as other social relations of general interest, etc. This wide-ranging constitutional basis means that the proposing could not find a constitutional basis. Of course, in this wandering he forgot to inhale the legal nature of acts brought by the Securities Commission. We see here that they're trying to define that every act by the Committee on Papers is a final administrative act. It is not clear to us whether, when you adopt final administrative acts in your variant, the Committee on Papers of the Value of Trusted Jobs, which, by the logic of things, by the Constitution, belongs to the authorities of the State Administration, or to the ministries. I do not dispute that there is the possibility that such a solution can be given and that it exists in some of our regulations, primarily regulations in which in some ways it is defined or constructed and set up something called an agency. I must declare to you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the possibility that the first degree administrative act of a state body may be a final administrative act, which means that there is no right to appeal directly to a higher second-degree body, but that protection is provided in another way, which is the case in which the administrative dispute is brought before a competent administrative court, sometimes the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, and in some areas it is the district courts. We are now simply looking for a second solution, which is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and probably in all future laws where these independent regulatory bodies appear with some powers of the state administration, we will in future represent that position that they are ultimately first-degree bodies, that a mandatory second-degree body be a competent ministry, and only when the competent ministry makes a decision, that there is the possibility of a administrative dispute. Practically, we raise protection to two levels. One is a classic complaint in the administrative procedure, and the other is an administrative dispute assessing the legality and constitutionality of the final administrative act. Why do we think it is necessary on the case of this law to make that intersection and to make it clear why this is necessary? Let's take into account the Telecommunications Act, the Radio Diffusion Act, the tobacco law, and not to further order the laws in which you have formed so-called. independent regulatory bodies in the light of some agencies. In all these regulations, you stated that the act adopted by the agency, commission, etc. the final administrative act and that the only option is to protect the initiation of the administrative dispute. In practice, we have seen that very often these organs, although not in the classical sense of the authorities, are something that would look like administrative organisations, but that we are not going into it, because you did not want to accept that concept either when you passed the Law on Ministrys, on civil servants and on state administration, because our practice has shown that there was only dislocation of power. The right of the National Assembly, i.e. the Justice Committee, was once disputed, since it was a legal category, when it was to be proposed by the holders of judicial functions, so someone sat down, put his finger on the head and said, we will depolitize it, so the proposal is a real High Council of Justice, and now everything that was present in the Justice Committee has been moved to the High Council of Justice. All of what was once present at the Ministry of Traffic and Frequencies has been transferred to the Broadcasting Agency. Everything that used to be in the Ministry of Finance related to tobacco transferred to the tobacco agency. The ministries have become irresponsible, cannot even react when there is a harsh violation of a regulation by that para-state authority or para-state organisation. There remains protection from some court, it is now still the Supreme Court of Serbia, there is what is happening and, in essence, the citizen has no protection. Why? Because the state, especially from January 25th 2001 to this day, has taken over one insidious system, which is that the ministries are being disembarked, jurisdiction is moving into the para-state authorities, and the state says, it is independent, we have no influence, and effective protection against the final acts of these agencies is almost non-existent. And so the state became irresponsible for questions from the authority of the state administration. We just want it back. We can't throw out this commission of yours, and it's probably not a good example of this concept of comedy and what I'm criticizing, but we can't let a para-state administrative quasi-organisation deal with something that's very important, and that protection only goes to administrative dispute. Why? Because we believe that in the context of the appeal, and having regard to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the second-degree administrative authority must review both the factual state and the application of the material regulation, which is one guarantee, unlike the administrative court that takes the action, discuss all of this, and what it can do, is undo the final administrative act and return it to a retrial, and the ministry as a second-degree body can also annul it, and change it and solve it in a different way. That's what this is about. We will probably, when the laws are similar, represent this position, because this attitude gives greater guarantees to participants in any procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27205	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We will conclude the morning part of the debate with the debate on Article 43. Resume work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 44th amendment. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27207	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 44. The bill provides: "When a shareholder, after the bidder publishes an offer to download, directly or by advertising through public information means, offers or promises gifts, services, property or other benefits to accept or refuse a takeover offer, he will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. Whoever intervenes in the conduct of the crime under Article 1 will be punished by a prison of six months to five years." National MP Petar Jojic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, asked for this article to be deleted. The reason is very simple, but in order to explain the reason I have to go a little wider. It seems that the finance minister in his youth preferred more rights, wanted to study rights, so probably his mother wouldn't let him, and now these are traumas and in every law he proposed these criminal provisions are far more difficult than the provisions provided for by the Criminal Law or belong to them in Criminal Law. I ask why in each of these laws, why not the Criminal Law? This is a felony. If it is necessary to complete the Criminal Code, to supplement it, it is not the first time that you've done the law amending and supplementing any law, and therefore the Criminal Code, to supplement the Code and to place it all in one place, because even by the logic of things, by subscribing the Criminal Code is above this and its similar laws. As for the government's arguments, he says, "Amendment is not accepted. In view of the fact that the Criminal Law does not prescribe a criminal offence relating to the takeover offer, the same must be the subject of the Bill's proposal, otherwise it would have left a free space for large manipulations." If this isn't regulated legally, and so many companies have been sold and so many small shareholders have already sold their shares, and so much manipulation has been, here and today you are chasing this Radulovic's Spain, who literally hijacked from his shareholders, why don't you remember before, why don't you protect the small shareholders, but 60% of the people have already been robbed this way. I remember when you spoke in time - no more than 200 euros per action, etc. The only privatisation they benefited from was the privatisation of the Apathian brewery, where the buyer bought from small shareholders, the question is whether it was a real price, but at some decent price of action. There was another problem, which all the things that the Apathian brewery was doing for the city of Apatin no longer exists, the brand that has been so far, and by which the whole area is recognizable, not only Apatin, etc., but it's a different story. I'm asking you, since 2000, it's been six years, at the time most companies were privatized, at the time the most small shareholders were robbed, and at the time you didn't remember that there was a legal gap here and that there was now a possibility of manipulation, when there was less or almost no small shareholders. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another opportunity to see how much government or incompetent it is, and when I say government, I mean the first one, the second one, and this third one, I mean Djindjic, and Zivkovic, and I mean Kostunica. Either the governments were incompetent, or something else was in play. It seems to me that there is something different in the game, because the tycoons are rolling with Serbia today. Now it's most important to buy out the country, to buy this out a little bit more oil industry, EPS, etc. And to mutilate small shareholders there, because you haven't yet passed the law that these people have the right to action. Only then will you go out and literally, as Stipe Mesic said in time "I did the job", you will finish your work. The state will be robbed, the citizens will be robbed and eventually "eat a donkey wolf". I think this amendment should be adopted and this part of the problem placed in Criminal Law. It's the only way we can move on as well as the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27208	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Who wants a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27209	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 45. The bill provides for criminal sanctions if there is a violation of this law. The practice of this government is such that every law passed here in the National Assembly goes to criminal provisions. On the one hand, it could be acceptable, if we didn't have a Criminal Law, so our judicial authorities would have collections of crimes from different areas and act on it. However, Serbia has criminal law and should not make parallel criminal legislation, i.e. It should not in individual legal proposals that there are criminal sanctions for perpetrators of criminal offences. So, it's not a problem, and it shouldn't be a problem for this assembly that, as we pass a certain law, the next session is about to come up with an amendment and an addition to the Criminal Law, which would harmonize the new matter, which has just entered into application or has yet to be applied. What do we have if we continue with this practice? We have a situation where individual legal proposals, i.e. crimes in special laws, are contrary to the criminal law itself. That's the problem that happens when things like this are done. I'll read just one piece, Article 45, item 2. The bill: "The persons who, in their intention to obtain to themselves or to other persons an illegal property benefit (and are now described in what way) have informed the other person of privileged information or, on the basis of that information, recommend to others to acquire, buy or sell actions of the target society which are traded or can be traded on an organised market of securities of value, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years". We have a similar formulation in Criminal Law, which says, I can't think of to quote, but a person who intends to obtain the opposite property benefit to himself or another, so it's going to be fined from three months to three years. So it is said, if it is greater than that proposed amount, it will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. So it is said, if that is greater than that proposed amount, it will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. So it's said, if it's bigger, it'll be punished by a prison of years to 10 years. So one more option is left as well, where it is said if it is a really large amount - it must be irrevocably punished from one year to ten or 15 years. So, the Criminal Law has for a long time, based on court experiences, based on the experience of the legislator, determined what criminal sanctions are imposed for perpetrators of criminal offences, and even from the area of economic crime. The most common form of an economic crime is fraud, so this is nothing more than fraud. The money that was obtained by fraud. Now, criminal fraud law has far more severe sanctions than this bill. I guess it's the goal of everyone, when they determine certain sanctions, to even the perpetrators of the crime. So what's a scam in business is also a fraud when you take over AD. In an unfair way he came to this, did certain damages, obtained himself an illegal property benefit. These are the aspects that the legislator should take into account. This means that we now have a certain situation that simply, because there are criminal provisions in every law, that, of course, whoever is accused of a certain crime will be in a position to call upon the provisions that are more favourable to him. That's why the Criminal Law, as such, loses its meaning, why we even brought it here. Recently, a new, criminal law has been passed for every society that develops, for every society that tries even in legal proposals to make something new, it is natural that this criminal law is one living substance that changes. With these bill proposals, we are actually entering into that part of the job that you have in the Government of the Republic of Serbia the competent ministry. And the proposer of this law is not the Ministry of Finance, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, I guess the ministers in that government are working together, I guess, that ministry that participates in the draft law can consult with the Ministry of Justice, or at a cabinet session, or in some other way, and find a new proposal before the MPs, that is, to amend and supplement the Criminal Law. It's no big deal at all. It seems to be being saved at some time, in fact, the Serbian Parliament should work, if necessary, and every day to make the laws that are being passed as good as possible and it is quite certain that it is much more important that we have one quality Criminal Law than now the law on public ski resorts. It's probably more important Criminal Law, I'm not saying this one isn't important either, but it means that the Serbian Parliament should discuss and make certain priorities when law is passed, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should also make some priorities when proposing legislation. Our criminal legislation is no longer settled in just one law, there is a tenth of the law, so I guess that's why you have to pass the law on training judges and other holders of judicial functions. So all this is costing the state, it is much cheaper for the Serbian Parliament to discuss amendments and additions to the Criminal Law at each next session than for such comparable criminal legislation to be dealt with by the area in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27210	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is absolutely correct and the only possible concept that the SRS stands for. If you do not have a criminal code that has been codified and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with what may be criminal acts, then it is pointless to discuss it. This is not the first case, Mr. Angelic, that criminal law in financial laws, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic, are intertwined. We had in many other laws, and in the book of mortgages, the Law of Planning and Construction, right. Remember only a few months back how much that was and that's not good. It's one practice started by the previous DOS-Manley furniture and we warned them from this pay phone. I don't know, maybe a thousand times that's what the president of our party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, pointed out and told them -- don't do that, it's going to come back to you later. Turns out that's the way it is. That's what you have in the Privatisation Act, in this amended law, the Law on Planning and Construction, I said, I can't remember now, but there were really a lot of these laws, and criminal provisions and latent crimes. We're pushing for it to be arranged. We've had numerous objections to this law before, but in some ways this latest codification of the Criminal Code has been done so that these crimes are also covered, and I don't know why you're putting them absolutely needlessly into this law right now. Now, there's a second question. When that is the case and when we have legal standards that must be respected in this country, what are we going to do with all the perpetrators of the crime under Article 45 of your law, or by the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, who, today and today, are at large? Hundreds of committed robbery privatisations in our country, in line with those who were, of course, representatives of the top state government and who directly participated as such in favour of those who bought our businesses in vain. Don't tell me that the privatisation of certain companies in Kragujevac or in Kragujevac, where the amazing examples are, is that Mr. Cevrovic, and in Vrnjak Banja, and Soko Banja, in Nis, that we're not talking about the Belgrade Traveler, don't tell me, please, that this Ilic suddenly appeared, remembered that this was his country here, that he wasn't a friend of the former prime minister, and today he was, is, is that right, Zoran Zivkovic, and is allegedly challenged every role, or hearing with the former prime minister and the top of that yellow mob organization, and the possession of this huge capital for small money, which was subsequently achieved. But, you know, according to that -- ate a donkey wolf -- what do you explain to these people now, what to explain to the people we received here at the privatisation of other hotel companies, not to tell other factories in the country. This government was aware of what the workers were looking for and what it was asking the public to clear, through the board of directors, and through the ministry, and above all before the country's competent courts that the perpetrators of these crimes, means the same ones who did this, not only through a defined member, but it is known that it is a criminal act under the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, are behind bars, responsible for stealing the state and the people, and for the petty money and certainly with the tip they bought those companies. Now, you convince anyone, a small child in Serbia, that a tip about buying cements and sugars didn't have these mobsters related to the Democratic Party, and that this Miodrag Kostic, showed up, had two or three euros in his pocket that day and came in and said, come on, let's buy that sugarcane, it's no big deal, it's one chocolate or two chocolates or two hundred grams of coffee. Now let me banalize, put on some equivalents. That's not true. For all these companies that have been sold to our country, all those who have traded on the securities market, who have participated in auction privatisation and how they have, and I am responsiblely telling you, many of them are still behind today. The steam comes in, they get rich, the people suffer. Neither is the respected social programme, nor is anyone asking these workers, nor have they come individually and by groups, and only the MPs of the SRS in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation have advocated, with tons of material, that at least some of these cases become enlightened. You know, it's not even the jurisdiction of the assembly board, it's up to the state authorities to do their job, the M.O.P., our prosecution, the Ministry of Justice, the competent courts. Like this, who do you want to explain it to? Here's a case of a Kragujev company called PKB "Transport". I'm just going to do one little depression to make it clear to you. I've mentioned this case many times, but to see what it's like. So, there's been privatisation, with such blurry about the necessary documentation, and the best people who are members of the board, and I'm not, but because of the demands of these workers and responsibilities, I've been pushing it out. PKB "Transport" privatization cancelled. So they were right, both my insistence and Mr. Novakovic's, and everywhere and in every place to consider the case. The Great Battle and the Battle was fought for two and a half years, where is this case now? The High Court of Commerce. Meanwhile, the arrest of this criminal Kljajevic, whom we have since initially claimed to be a criminal, because he came as such, through those of his armed formations or already five-octobaric powders, has fallen into the then Business Court, workers and are waiting today. They filed criminal charges against the DA, complained about this, about that. Whenever there is a session of the Assembly, that can be talked about, all the council members in the City Assembly on our initiative, whether the government or the opposition, 87 council members took the same stance. The law and the workers must be respected to return to work, and given what belongs to them. There's nothing. And so do you with this member of the law. The first thing he doesn't understand here. Second, and what is the crime, that is, in such a way as to formulate the Criminal Law, is not respected, because all those who are in the hearing with the regime, with those who are able to sell our businesses, and that workers remain on the street, still in a privileged position, do whatever they want, and no one can do anything to them. Just remember, it's been almost two years, and as MPs, we still don't have a report on the survey committee's work on the Hamovic-Lazarevic electricity mafia. No report came in front of the MPs today. I guess that's enough for you to see what kind of state we live in and what kind of criminals they do and do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27212	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A LAW ON ACCOUNTMENT AND REVISION (single) Also the notification that we will be working longer today, obviously until the end of this point, which has 52 amendments. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Istvan Takac, Sava Urosevic, Velimir Simonović, Jovan Todorovic, Zoran Andjelković, Milomir Minić, Branislav Rankić, Zoran Krasić, Mita Avramov, Vitomir Plužarevic, Milet Posukurić, Radić, Igor Bečić, Stevica Dedjanski, Vitomir Milošević, Ivan Radić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Dragutin Perić, Goran Dunjic, Zoran Antić, Miljko Četrović, Darko Glisic, Milan Škrbić, Nenad Mitrović, Milovanovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Paja Momčev, Milan Draginović, Blaže Krajinović, Dragolju Anastasovski, Stefan Zankov, Vjera Radeta and Ljubomir Kragović. The government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted an opinion on the amendments, which have been submitted to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27213	I'm glad, Mr. Mihailovich, that in such an enmity and rush, you're making laws and amendments, everything's nice, extended work, let's go from one to the other. It doesn't matter, we can take it all, but this bill on accounting and audit, in the SRS' view, is not good, and we've given concrete professional objections here, especially those that concern the experience of people who deal with accounting, and above all because of compliance with our domestic standards, it was a prejudicial goal, and you have these world standards. First of all, I must remind you that the Budgetary System Act, adopted three years ago, has made it possible for malfeasance and abuse to begin with this republican budget through the budget of local self-government. We warned you then, as we now warn you about the accounting and audit laws, not to deal with the terms that have been taken over by harmonisation. Now you're going to do it without this unfortunately Separatist brothers from Montenegro, because, with the help of the Shiptar, they broke the state in plain sight of all of you and with your smiling, I don't mean everything in particular, but he knows this organization that I mean, everything is beautiful and colorful. Now that we are and are engaged in this day, after the redistribution of separatists with all the Shiptars in Montenegro, accounting and audit, let us warn you that this law on the budgetary system is through the definition of the name, such as specialised contracts, special costs, etc. led to major abuses and money laundering, and no tonic can trace it. When you're looking under the Accounting Act and the Budgetary System Act, it's best to know the Serbian radicals who came to power and took over the municipalities run by this yellow gang crime, when you're looking for a budgetary inspector from the finance ministry to come, the finance minister says there's not enough. You're asking to execute a cross-section, to take a clear accounting picture, to see what's on one side, what's on the other, who's been signing, how public enterprises whose founder is the municipality's council. There's no such thing. They're referring to you taking some authorized auditor, who's going to come to see all of this, which is then the role of the state in all this. Is this the Ministry of Finance protecting abuses and malfeasances, which apparently occur from city to city, and especially where budget, or under the budget law, is responsible for the president of the municipality, who, on the other hand, does not have a direct mechanism of control of a particular company, because it has a hiducia, some congregation alleged majority. Here, we have a case in Arangelovac like this, and five or ten times the president speaks and says to the ministry -- come and execute the cross-section -- there's no one there. This amendment, submitted by counterpart Rankic, which we believe will bring a convincing victory to the extraordinary local elections in Bor, and we invite everyone to come tomorrow, and tomorrow is our pre-election rally and to support our candidate, an honest, honorable man, and above all a prominent Serbian radical and one who can bring crucial changes to that end and to eastern Serbia, which the SRS advocates, has proposed to change in Article 2(3). Instead of the proposal as defined by the Proposer, it reads: ''Under professional regulation, the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Reports is defined by the International Accounting Standards (IAS), i.e. the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the interpretations that form part of the standard, the International Accounting Standards – MSR (International Standards on Auditing – ISA), the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, the national accounting educational standard ROS 31 - professional training of accounting and accounting standards JRS 33 - accounting software. Do you know what the government has said to us? A nice man wrote that this lawman wasn't defined enough and had to be completed. He said that a supplement is proposed, because that member of the law, or the whole law, should not only be written, but also be available and applicable in practice, and those who are just going to be trained as accountants, and to be in addition to those international codes, in line with what our national codes are. The government of the Republic of Serbia responds, it is only one part of their reasoning in several sentences, this was his basic intention. If we are already making a law for us, for Serbia and for the accountants in Serbia, that it must be applicable, and that everything is clear and there is no doubt left. No, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kostunica signed it, and earlier it was Labus, and he resigned and now Kostunica is signing all the arguments, he says, refuses to accept it, along with all what his colleague stated, because those national standards have been passed by the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia in accordance with its acts, not by law, imagine, so they cannot be treated as national standards. So, the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, which maintains all its sessions and various seminars, and that is all necessary, and I know many young people who have defined themselves after completing either high school or college, primarily for accounting direction, and to attend these courses that are otherwise very expensive. That quotation is for you to qualify for it, because it's in the right sense the word craft, something that can bring you real profit if you want to do it. Anyone who is capable of being up-to-date and who is qualified to do so and who finishes a certain school, attends courses, can always find at least one or two businesses, independent shops, and live on it. You say they have their standards, the Union of Accountants, and that is why they do not have to comply, that is, it does not have to be strictly prescribed as counterpart Rankic asked for by Article 2 of the Law. We just wanted to, and his intention was to supplement and not to leave any gap and to make it clearer for those who still need to do that job, and for those who train in the Union of Accountants or through donations that are present everywhere. This is how you didn't want this, out of us incomprehensible and truly unacceptable reasons, no one's normal argument from the government would be acceptable. Since the government has responded so, you still have the opportunity, MPs, if you have listened to me carefully and if you have followed what is happening in this law, to decide in the day to vote differently. If you don't decide, and I believe you won't, it'll be the way it's coming to you, and that's that. There is no reason to be angry at us for warning you in time, and above all, the general public that these laws are not good and that they cannot be applicable, which has proved impossible in many other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27214	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic, the Government and the Financial Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27215	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have before us the accounting and audit law. In the last few years, a law that has constantly changed requires a certain engagement of all those who want to do a job like this. We have a federal accounting and audit law. Unfortunately, we no longer have any federal state, not even the state community. Criminals finished their part of the job, those in Montenegro. Now it's time for these in Serbia. There is already one particular practice that regulates this area, such as accounting and audit. In the application of that law, certain difficulties have been encountered, as well as certain irregularities, call whatever you want. The proposer wants to prevent such a law, to say that it is, a monopoly with the Union of Accountants and auditors of Serbia. Because of this alleged monopoly, we have one such bill. Now the question is, who's all involved in making one of these laws? There are many, there are consulting houses that have dealt with the value of capital in the privatisation process, especially when it comes to cementers. So, they didn't like one professional association, which is a member of international accounting organisations, so it probably bothered Show Deloit to do that part of the job further. Next, gentlemen, the question is, if you're already solving the monopoly issue when it comes to one area, why don't you solve it with everyone, but you're doing it selectively. On this side, the Union of Accountants and Auditors shall be put aside. Now let me ask you what's up with "The Economic Messenger," if he has a monopoly. There are, gentlemen, there are, for some time, state-owned enterprises, so by some miracle they became AD. Why don't you tell me how much money you're pushing into their pockets, why don't you say that even the smallest shareholder in that "priority messenger" doesn't have a less dividend than 100,000 euros? Why don't you tell who they are to interpret the laws passed by the Serbian Parliament? Who are they to determine how laws, adopted by the Serbian Parliament, are being implemented and who are they that all authorities of the government that operate on the ground are acting according to their instructions? When you get company control, the inspector sits down and pulls out the "Employment Messenger" and is based on it. Why don't you take away their monopoly? Are they some kind of professional association, don't we have ministries capable of determining the application of the law on their own? Does a ministry organ give consent to what they write? Whether the authorities of the administration, and the judge for the violations is the authority of the administration, are acting in the opinion of the "Employment Messenger", which is a private company. The inspector on the ground is also acting in their opinion. What's this all about? What kind of circus is this? The amendments are not accepted on the grounds that it is a sublegal act on which only the minister can give consent and publish in the Official Messenger. Furthermore, the bill does not foresee the adoption of national accounting standards, but international accounting standards are applied, whose translation is published in the Official Messenger. Whose international accounting standards are these, and who defines these international accounting standards? The International Federation of Accountants. Do we have a member of this international Federation? We have, it's the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia. They represent this Federation here. Do you have everything they write to accept? You don't have to. In the legal proposal itself, consent to each translation is given by the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry gives consent to translation, gives consent to national accounting standards. The Ministry, because that's his job, doesn't determine the Business Messenger, gives consent to the plan and training program of the accountants and auditors. That's what this is about. You wanted to put everything aside and start all over again. We'll come to the chamber later, as she educates herself, who educates her, and how it will work. We don't mind, let the accountants and auditors make their own chamber, but whether they will be in charge of determining who can carry out an internal audit, and I really don't know what the concept of internal audit and revision is. The internal audit is something new and it is a document created from an internal audit, and it also raises a question for whose purpose. I guess for the purpose of having a capital, but he doesn't have to look for an internal auditor. He'll look for whoever knows the job and who he's sure will do it fair and square for him. This document does not come out of the legal person’s framework, i.e. the owner of the capital. Furthermore, Article 2(4) states: "The internal regulation includes general acts adopted by a legal person, i.e. by an entrepreneur, which contain specific instructions and guidelines for the management of business books, accounting policy for the recognition, assessment of assets and liabilities, income and expenditure, instructions and guidelines for the adoption, delivery and disclosure of financial reports, as well as other questions relating to the keeping of accounts and the drawing up of financial reports prescribed by this law to be governed by a general act of the legal person. '"That's where you really get over yourself in one piece. Legal persons, according to the bill and according to current law, are divided into small, medium and large. International accounting standards under the draft law apply only to large legal entities, but you expect small legal entities to adopt general acts containing specific instructions and guidelines for the management of business books, accounting policy for recognition, asset assessment. And you're even going into that part, and you're still giving such authority to the entrepreneur, so the physical person, the self-serving shop, the independent craft shop, the independent trade shop to bring in general acts. Is that possible? If someone asks the question of internal arrangements, most often the employer does it the way he does the easiest, especially if it's a small legal person, possibly an entrepreneur. It's the easiest, cheapest and most efficient for him. But if a small legal person and an entrepreneur were to pass general administrative acts, it was indeed a precedent in our domestic legislation. Are they obliged to bring and show such an act to the competent inspector who will come, to the auditor or to whom he will already be in control? It doesn't say that anywhere in the law, and if it is, will such a general act be in accordance with the law? They won't, because they didn't put together faces that knew they were putting together such acts. Does this mean that he will have to hire a special person in a trade store to bring in general acts on how his accounting is arranged? Then why is there the number of business books that must be in one facility, possibly an office where certain entrepreneurs' books are kept, etc. So this whole regulation that the law provides is basically inadmissible in practice. I agree that all who have the monopoly should be limited, but we certainly shouldn't put professional associations aside when it comes to the application of certain laws, especially if these professional associations are members of various international federations, as you have called them here, especially since we don't know what the authority of any chambers will be, especially when it comes to what kind of acts they will manage these chambers and are not regulated by the law which should give consent to the act adopted by that chamber, and the way in which the chamber is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So now you're going round again, because the international Federation of Accountants, which sets international accounting standards, doesn't want to have any contact with the executive authorities, and that chamber will be, and I'm very interested in what co-operation will be between that chamber and the various international organisations you call upon when this area is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27216	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The MP gives up the amendment. An MP named Mit Avramov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in Article 2nd position 6th MP of the SRS Mita Avramov suggested that the words "a small legal person and an entrepreneur can, and a large legal person, medium legal person" be replaced by the words "entrepreneur can, and a large legal person, medium legal person and a small legal person". When I read to you, it means nothing to you. In this amendment, he really wanted us to avoid possible abuses in our practice, possibly, we don't prejudge anything and we don't want it to happen, but it's hypothetically possible and that's why laws are being written to remove ambiguity and prevent abuses. I guess some experience teaches you to make better laws, not worse, or to apply someone's oatmeals that aren't from our space. He explained that, for example. One natural person, say you, Mr. Angelic, you can have more small legal entities that are connected to each other, not you, anyone who intends to do such a job and then as such perform together on the market, it's much easier for them to appear as such and make a profit. By equating small, medium and large legal persons, as he suggested by amending Article 2 of the proposed law, this possible abuse would be disabled. We cannot accept this argument given by the Republic Government, which says that the full member of the law is in line and that small legal persons commit to applying the full set, which we have spoken of and did not accept the addition of colleagues of Rankic, the international accounting standard and the international standard of financial reporting, which is contrary to the legal solutions of developed countries, beware, and is not even in line with the Fourth Directive of the European Union and the modern practice of developed countries. Well, then it's a point, so it's said to be a complete argument -- the World Bank doesn't recommend such a commitment for small legal persons and entrepreneurs either. Now the question is, how long will you and whether you want to overwrite these laws blindly without paying attention to what is happening in Serbia? We're not some underprivileged people, nor are we people without experience, so we don't know that these things have happened, nor are we proposing something that's abnormal, but that there's a clear ranking of what small and what medium-sized enterprises are, or legal persons. By the way, there has been none of this project that has been promoted to all bells since October 5th, development and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is not there in Serbia. Only companies close down, and taxpayers torture under these laws how to pay off all their obligations. When we really suggest something that's applicable to our market, you say, they don't let us, it's not consistent with them. A logical question is raised for the citizens of Serbia. If you say, you are now prevented from continuing this famous harmonisation and negotiations with the European Union, because it is a hindrance and headless chase and doping lies, inventions, chasing famous General Ratko Mladic, but thank Lord God and what he is capable of, you will never succeed in that intention, but as long as you have done so, according to these reports, especially as of 9 November last year, the Association Commission, etc., they do not guarantee you any deadlines at all. It is, they say, and instead of even explaining the extras, you say it's so servial, we have to fulfill it, even if it's every directive that comes from the World Bank. Let me remind you about the budget of what happened and what happened about the payment of the debt to pensioners and agricultural pensions. They conditioned you to be on a much more delayed deadline than it is able to do in that surplus that was shown to make the government out of the current budget for this year. And you adopted the law, according to their recommendation, that this happens by July 2008 and 2009 respectively. It's all facts, and the pensioners know it very well. This direct acceptance of everything again does not guarantee you, with all the humiliation of the people, with the devastation of everything that we have and what we have, I will remind you that you have ruined the Social Accounting Service, the former SDK, the Payment Service later, as it was crushed in the parades for a short time. It was also a directive from the so-called international community and the World Bank. None of this makes you feel better or better for the citizens. When we come to care for the state, here through one bill, through this amendment by colleagues of Mite Avramov, you persistently refer only to other people's experiences and only to what they ask of you, not paying attention to the situation in Serbia. I must remind you, it was particularly apostrophe in the context of this large and capital project, which he personally deserved, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, when a contract in Novi Sad was signed eight days ago worth over 600m euros to build a gas thermopower plant with the company "Technoprom Export", which is under the patronage of the Russian government and President Putin. For two or three days, you've been making noises about it, of course, it was wrong for you, because you've only owed us, you haven't made any investment in the country, and when he was talking in that context about Russia waiting 20 years to become a member of the World Trade Organisation and asking us a question, all of which is to revitalise some part of our production, and what our farmers can produce, and where is the market for it, does the European Union guarantee us? No, he doesn't guarantee us at all. None of these accredited diplomats from two-thirds of the planet Earth Mr Nikolic received could agree with that. Well, neither did the Russians we visited recently, and I was a member of that SRS delegation. Nice people asked about the textile industry, about the metal complex, about this, about what, they can all buy it, today they're one of the most powerful countries in the world, but what to buy, who to offer them. Now the question is why won't you accept, because we're not against it, therefore, to do both the harmonisation and the integration that you're seeking. But there's just a question of what it's all about and why you don't want to apply these experiences of ours. We want to combine each other, as Mr Nikolic has found Swiss finance, and the water company, the investments he has made in Serbia, here, you accept that we have bad experience and that an open concern shows that individuals will abuse this law, and nothing is left to remain and these accepted solutions that come to your side and have other more developed countries in their experience, or that they apply their standards, but that you also accept this. And no one is going to beat you for it, nor will they bear any responsibility, neither you, Mr Angelic, nor Dinkic, are going to have to resign, because you will soon leave these functions of the people, rounding up in polling stations, but you would not miss anything. It's the only thing missing from this law, and that's why I'm asking you to accept the amendment to the SRS, because it's really not right. When you have nothing, then you say, it's not in line with this or that. No one told you at all or warned you that it couldn't stand in the text of the law, because all that you're harmonising with international standards and regulations, we haven't touched anything, we haven't erased anything, we just wanted to give a clearer addition, but you won't accept and let it all go to your soul again, which the people say, and when the elections come, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27218	Does anyone else want a word? ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27219	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of Article 7: the word "Minister" is replaced by the word "Ministership", and the words "small legal persons and" are deleted. This amendment, the Serbian Radical Party, wants to be deleted as an individual in this Article 2, and that these tasks are done by the ministry with all its professional and measuring personnel. The minister took the right to do a lot of things. I don't think he knows what he can do anymore, what he can do, and what he can do. Legislative regulations are to be dealt with by the ministry, and the minister is only there as a "on-call guilty", if that's what you can say, but we know that no minister has ever been guilty on any basis, not yours, which is understood in all areas. The Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia addressed all MPs with several proposals on the law. I will only single out one thought from that context, where they say that the minister and individual MPs misinformed the citizens of this law and it is not good for the profession and science. Why not meet the proposals of 30,000 professional accountants and professional titleholders acquired by ROS 31, so that this law should not allow the creation of chambers of authorised auditors. Every new law creates agencies, administrations, now you go to a lower level, these are chambers, and in the end probably all the laws that you're proposing are also bound to any directives. It's already a lot for someone who's richer, not for our economy that barely makes ends meet. You're destroying everything that's valuable, I mean this area of this law. He's slaughtering a bull for a pound of meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27220	Anyone else want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27221	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that it continues with the practice that the minister prescribes a way of recognising, measuring and assessing assets and liabilities, income and expenditure of small legal entities and entrepreneurs, which do not apply international accounting standards, in accordance with legal and professional regulations. So the amendment refuses. The reason is that it is an act adopted by the manager of the competent authority. Then what's the authority for? To end the ministries, to be only a minister, there is no need to be either deputy ministers or ministerial assistants. The minister, especially when it comes to the finance minister, above all, the god and the beating, he determines everything. We even had legal proposals here, and this assembly has made it possible for the minister in charge of finance affairs to put aside certain provisions of the law in certain situations. There's a man above the law, a monarch, what is it. Furthermore, in the amendment submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic on behalf of the SRS, yet one definition is not clear: why are small legal persons equating with entrepreneurs? We have in Article 7 as legal persons are classified, so it is said that the average number of employees in the year for which the annual report is submitted is 50 to 250, so that there are two and a half million euros to ten million or from one million to five million, etc. Now I'm asking you what's the difference between an entrepreneur who meets two conditions to settle into a medium or large legal person. None, except for how to compile accounting reports. Is that possible? Limits on how much income it will have does not determine whether it is a legal person or an entrepreneur. Here, we had a situation that the Ministry of Defence, while the defence minister was Boris Tadic, is the one who forgot where Serbian strategics are, but goes to someone else's, is the same one Boris Tadic who offered to go to the funeral of Ibrahim Rugova, the one who made contracts for the purchase of military equipment with entrepreneurs, because the one you arrested, I can't remember his name, he was the SZR, who supplied the military with equipment and who was fully in accordance with all the regulations could be treated as a middle or large legal person, in accordance with this law. Now there's a question of how many there are, and there's a lot of them. Believe me, there are a lot of independent crafts and other shops that have bigger crafts than middle legal persons. Then why don't they apply accounting standards? Just because they don't have legal status? Did you give them as many restrictions as they could have as many employees as entrepreneurs? There isn't. Are there limits on how much they can make an annual income? No, but the minister prescribes them with a sublegal act to draw up accounting reports. Yet this matter should be regulated by law, no matter what they are entrepreneurs. There are no sublegal acts. At least that you have stated in the law that international accounting standards are applied to entrepreneurs, if there are more than 50 employees and if its income is greater than 1m euros in dinar equivalent over the year. You didn't even think to write that. It's about the law being passed. Why? No one can explain that. The current Accounting and Audit Act has been in place for a few years. He has already come to life and entered the economy and has already taken his place in the area. Now let's change, let's cancel the licenses, or certificates that the accountants own, owned by auditors. Let's write a new law, and we'll do it all over again. Now let's see who makes money on new certificates. Whoever makes money on new certificates actually wrote this bill. Is that going to be a chamber? Maybe. We're going to see who's going to get into that chamber and how the chamber is going to share its income, and it wouldn't surprise me if that chamber was once again some stock company where again a couple of individuals who have already shown themselves here since October 5th as people who know how money is being earned in an illegal way, so it's starting to sting too much of your eyes -- let's give you safe income on the other side. However, if you get rich in an illegal way, it's also an easy way to make money, we're going to make the law that you're still making huge money in an easy way, huge money. That's the problem when laws like this are passed. It's just, as you're on your way, I doubt you'll be able to apply one of these laws. Your time goes much faster than you hoped, and the time of the SRS is much closer than you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27222	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. He's giving up, he's withdrawing the amendment. An MP, Milet Poscuric, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27223	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment corrects Article 3 in which it states that they translate, publish and coordinate international accounting standards, international standards of financial reporting and international standards of audit, in accordance with the recommendations of the Federation of Accountants and others, perform legal persons, or bodies. That's where we put the amendment, which we predicted would be done by a professional organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants. Our intervention is also at the position of the 2nd member, where, instead of the minister, the ministry should be responsible for setting standards and publishing them in the Official Messenger. Why are we starting this kind of intervention? It is precisely because it is quite clear that in the current financial system we have the Union of Accountants and Auditors, a professional organisation that is professionally trained and registered, recognised by the International Federation for 55 years, as long as the letter says, five decades of their professional engagement. They have shared numerous licences, numerous copyrights have been acquired with them and now, as shown in Article 4, the bill provides for the creation of one special body, one chamber of authorised auditors. So, people who have acquired their titles and their knowledge in this particular agency, in this association -- the Union of Accountants, should assume that they are doing some other work, or the same, but after expensive training, after forming a new body. We're like always against you forming new bodies, new organizations, especially when it turns out that what we have is working, that it's good enough and that it's really not politicized. Something that lasts for five decades can certainly not be politicized, we do not know who is all in this alliance, who is their president, whose party they belong to, we can guess when it comes to finance where and where they are in which party, but obviously with an obvious conflict with the ministry and the minister, and letters and others, and explaining clearly their position, ability and the fact that in the world they are respected in this professional world, in international institutions, they do not need to be denied that possibility out of hand. Of course, the attitude of the 1st member is not a priority, but when it is later discussed, especially when the reasoning is read, they see a clear intention to reject the possibility of being the bearers of such an important job. The explanation for the earlier proposal for a member, which has already been spoken of, which the government has offered, is seen and simply is what the eyes are, a clear tendency to say that we have no intention of bringing national standards. So why do we deprive ourselves everywhere of what is national, why are we not after five decades of working this institution, which also translates, and monitors, and harmonizes and modernizes its methodology, its standards, the doctrines it takes over on the side and has successfully placed them on the market so far, why should it look like what we've already seen with the abolition of the Payment Service, or the previous SDK? Why does this have to look like what we got by abolishing or completely changing the Law on Higher Education and the adoption of a new law, which is really so masquerade, so binding to the institutions of the education system, that they are now struggling to implement it, to implement it. The statutes of the university have not been passed, the statutes of the university, it's something inconsistencies, it's hard to go. We know that the National Educational Council, which you have formed, is not yet working. Different advices, different agencies, simply unnecessarily drowning in the existing way and operating mechanisms. Why change something when it's good? So, not to defend some kind of professional association, not necessarily, but to defend the fact that something is working, and then to force it to change, these powers are given to others, who have just come out in a certain way, as a necessary consequence of the existence of this system, of this alliance, which has divided the licenses, and which is, of course, professionally trained to do such a job, audit work, accounting work, everything this law provides. That's why we thought it was logical for you to accept a amendment like this and once deviate from the path of unnecessary experimentation and introducing new institutions into our legislative practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27224	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic submitted an amendment to the subtitle above Articles 4 and 4. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this bill and I will read it because it is very important, above all, for all the auditors and accountants who are probably following this session, because this is an important matter for their profession. Article 4 is amended as follows: "This law establishes the professional title of 'authorised Public Accountant - Authorised Auditor', 'authorised Accountant' and 'Accountant'. Professional calls referred to in Article 1 shall be obtained in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the national accounting standard ROS 31-Procedural training of accounting officers". Therefore, there is no authorised auditor, no authorised internal auditor and no chamber of authorised auditors. This bill has caused a lot of controversy in the public, more specifically than condemnation by the professional public and those involved in this profession. The letter sent by the Union of Accountants and Auditors to all MPs in the National Assembly, as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, we have read and studied this, while for the MPs of the ruling coalition I highly doubt that they have even looked at it. This amendment proposes introducing more appropriate professional titles than is given in this draft law. The education of professional accountants must be left exclusively to the profession, not to some artificial form, such as the chamber, which is directly influenced by the state body, or the Ministry of Finance. There's literally no such example anywhere in Europe. Why don't you let all this go to the profession? It is of great importance that state authorities do not have an impact on the education of auditors. Only then will they remain independent professionals who carry out the audit and at the same time answer for the correctness of the audit, the drawing up of the audit report and the expression of the audit opinion. At that time, the audit reports will not encounter a bunch of incorrect data, because these are phenomena that need to be severely sanctioned and that have so far caused huge and inconspicuous consequences in many financial affairs, especially where individual authorised auditors have signed false balance sheets and successes. So, this amendment instead of calling 'authorised auditor' and 'authorised internal auditor' is proposed 'authorised public accountant - authorised auditor', 'authorised accountant' and 'accounter'. In a letter received by all MPs of the National Assembly from the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, attention is being turned to both the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dinkic, as well as MPs of the ruling coalition, that the Ministry of Finance has not received their consent to the use of certain professional calls in accounting. Such a solution, as is given in this amendment, would prevent the creation of a parallel, in a way, pseudo-professional organisation, which is unnecessary, because there is already a professional organisation that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants. The finance minister seemed to be at war with everyone, now he's even bothered by his party colleagues. Now here's the turn after the bankers, after the insurance companies came both auditors and accountants. In this amendment, the SRS proposes these calls which are also mentioned in this memo, such as the authorised auditor - authorised public accountants, authorised accountants and accountants. In this law, the current government again invents organs, as was the case with agencies before, all on the burden of Serbian taxpayers. In this case, the Chamber is authorized auditors, both legal and physical, which is a unique case in the world. By mode of work and function at all, this is a school example of what a conflict of interest looks like. According to which the EU directive enters the legislative system, it is likely that only current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who should know that he directly threatens thousands of professional accountants in Serbia with his reckless legal experiments. Since both accountants and auditors are now following this debate and they, as well as the official alliance, have made their contribution, which, in part, refers to Article 4, I believe that by accepting this amendment, would have somewhat improved this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27226	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Yes, Rajko Baralic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27227	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no longer time that allowed the system, when you hand over the final account, to be called that once, there was a state service called SDK or the Payment Service, which could still tell you whether what you offered was in line with what was declared. There is no possibility now that this professional association, even if I think so, is self-produced by accountants and auditors, because not the others, but others do, let's say, lawyers have their own chamber and, as you know, there is no one in the chamber who can do this work. Why don't I think we should accept the amendment? Because, unfortunately, at this point in Serbia, the largest number, I apologize to the honorable employers, the employers of their accountants, and it gives them tasks to, in one way that does not correspond to the right state of things, run accounting in their companies and for their interest. The state has a different interest and therefore there must be a mechanism for these people to carry out this work in accordance with the law, without distorting the normal business environment defined by law. In that sense, in my understanding of things, the more important thing is that he gave the bill in relation to what is proposed by the amendment itself. It is not easy to settle this matter at all, because it is known that the financing of certain businesses in this area is causing great damage to the citizens of Serbia, to budget users, to create a false picture of the business of a large number of enterprises, and I hope it is no one's interest. As to whether or not someone has looked at the letter sent by this association, good taste requires that it is not peeked into someone else's plate and into someone else's reading. So the parliamentary groups got these materials, talked to the representatives of this association, gave appropriate answers and the corresponding amendments, it's a matter of course of understanding and concept matter, but of course it's important to say that no one, not even the Association of Accountants, has the right to perpetum mobile. It can't be self-produced, there must be someone out there somewhere who can tell if someone's capable of doing the job or not. I'd like to remind you that the civil servants are taking the so-called so-called. The state exams or they almost passed it, they didn't put it in their association, they put it in front of the competent state commission, and that's normal, because they're doing a job of interest for all Serbian citizens. In that sense, it is important that we understand this. In the end, I do not want to abuse the Rules of Procedure for more than 10 seconds, I would like to congratulate Dražimir Marusic, who won the non-discipline coalition in Gornji Milanovac yesterday and remains president of SO, elected by the majority will and confirmed by the majority will of citizens in the municipality of Gornja Milanovac. I am quite sure that this job will be successful in the future. Of course, that's not the case with Mr. Martic in Uzic. Where the Socialist Party defends itself, that's where our presidents stay, and where they attack, they fall. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27228	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. I join the congratulations to Mr. Marusic. It's a 2-0 for socialists yesterday, whatever you want. Whoever's messing with us, he's a failure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Becic submitted an amendment to Article 4 which proposed that the term "exterior" in the corresponding decline be replaced by "sex" in the corresponding decline should appear in this member and other members. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27229	Mr. Angelkovic, everything is colorful and beautiful. I thought you'd be a little worried about brotherly and Serbian Montenegro, and you're laughing and talking about some alleged non-discipline coalition, because one man who's involved in malfeasance has remained in power. It's the will of the citizens, but we have local elections there now, and we'll see what happens next. In addition, do not defend him or celebrate him so warmly. Because he allegedly failed to be recalled, because he was running around a group of citizens, or you accept everything in order, whoever is offered to you, from these former apostates of yours. I know about Marusic 15 years ago. Before this term, he had three mandates at the time of your party's absolute rule, but he ran for office in 2004 as a group of citizens and I really don't see it, he told you nicely, why you abuse your position. Now you're challenging me, and you're throwing me from that chair as I prepare to present myself on this amendment. You can do whatever you want, but I expected you to say something to help us break up the common state along with the criminals Milo Djukanovic. I can move on to Mr. Becic's amendment. (President: I understand you're talking about the amendment. ) Are you in the story now, or do you want to join me as a neighbor across the board, as you will. I'm ready, I don't know what's on your mind right now. (President: Miss Jovanovic, I understand that you are talking about the amendment. Just keep talking about the amendment. ) I will continue on the amendment and I will begin only. As regards the amendment tabled by counterpart Becic and as regards these remarks that the Union of Accountants and auditors, as a professional organisation, delivered to the SRS parliamentary group in the most part, we agree with these remarks. Now I'm going back to that story about article two. The bill, and now we are at 4 when we said that our principled position is, our party's position to national values, and what the profession has shown and what it has achieved, of course everything in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the existing laws, we cultivate and help these people. And that these innovations and these innovations, which only a few countries in the environment know, which they clearly stated in this memo, are not used and that we are not still the fifth white mouse to experiment or six, besides these five countries. It is absolutely true that the information they have provided when it comes to the International Federation of Accountants and they have provided us with a list of full members, which shows that only five members of the Chamber of Auditors, namely Poland, Kazakhstan, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, and a full list of almost all countries of the world, and smaller and larger ones, which also protect their profession and national responsibility of their associations, which were only sought by people, who also supported the amendment that Ilic submitted to Article 4. So, the reverse trail, he did not read this memo, because it was in his hands five minutes ago, but on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group he submitted the amendment. This is the one that essentially changes Article 4, where an authorised auditor and an authorised internal auditor are introduced. They are right when they say that, we have told you all the time, that under the terms of implementation of all international standards and the directive only requires translation, updating and harmonisation of international professional regulation by a professional organisation, i.e. members of the International Federation of Accountants, who have obtained the right to do so, but the competent Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Minister and Governor cannot implement these international professional regulations in this way, but they only adopt a sublegal act. The roles have been mixed here, and since the first amendment, we've been trying to explain it to you unconnected to this. If you have already taken the right to do so, I am telling you, Mr Angelic and the Ministry of Finance, then you should have, which is the amendment of your colleague Igor Becic, correctly translated. If you have already put yourself in the service of those who ask for it and ignored the fact that both Argentina and the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, etc. They were deaf about it and they didn't want them to pass the law and apply these innovations, and then you should have translated it right and put the word "exterior" on the outside instead. Why would you now use a foreign term or English word, which has been translated your way and which has already become a novelty of all laws, but rather... What's wrong, buddy? I said on purpose, if I'm talking to you with a certain disdainful tone, because that's what it is, then I'm telling you, because that's what you would say, and you're usually talking about, I haven't heard any MPs, especially from this yellow organization, and that's what those from G17 plus Gods are, more or less, to say OK or okay. I always ask you what's okay with you. If that is so, and if we have rich and thank God the most beautiful Serbian language, and if it could have been in a certain decline to be placed as an outsider, why didn't you do it. How could you forget all that nonsense so far in the law or in the terms that have begun to be used abruptly since October 5th? You have begun, instead of the Messenger of the people, to invent a word, a letter for an apostle of women. We have explained to you a million times, and so have various people, and our well-known writers and linguists, what is a letter, and that it, thank God, can only be directed to our Orthodox people by the patriarch, the Serbian gentleman Paul. You stayed on it. You stayed in using the word transition, then transition justice, so the other day in the law that Mrs. Radeta warned you about, the chosen judge. The justice minister came, if he didn't say the word properly ten times, he didn't say it once. It's not a party, but there's a bit of a mix of terms about our language and what's supposed to be in the law. Don't deal with it when you have our Serbian language and all this can be done in a much more correct way. The concept itself is disastrous and the very fact that you have received so many objections from the profession, and every MP has received this, someone sooner or later, and I assume that you all have it in front of you and that the service, or courier in the assembly, has brought it to you. Read a little bit and imagine this fact. Why do you need that? It is nowhere to you as a condition by the EU commission. I've had that report since November last year. There is a clear order in the area of finance, in the area of foreign policy, the issue of the country, the hunter of Serbian heads, the delivery of General The Hague, it also writes for criminal legislation. I told you that's where the judge's training center is, that they're going to ask for it to be a new law, they were alive and they saw one like that. As far as this is concerned, no ultimatum has been set for you at all. You run before ore and do what you are not asked to do, only to find yourself in the company of these five countries: Poland, Kazakhstan, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Really, if these are all your role models and you want to find yourself as sixth, and you don't listen to the appeal of these people, who have been doing this job your whole life. There's nothing at all or suggested ultimately, nor did they perform from that function or position to look for, you have to do it otherwise we're going to say you're like this or you're like this. We don't have to do anything about Serbian radicals, just listen to what the people say, listen to how citizens live and listen to honest people doing their jobs. You've had the same thing with the Lising Act. We warned you, and those who are in that organisation, who in these banks that Dinkic brought in to operate as domestic and foreign banks, after two or three months of the bill was made, also sent us a memo and said this is a disaster, which mocks our profession and what this is doing. Whatever you want, that's how it's gonna be. Just one at a time, a professional association appears more and detests your legal projects. It is the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, they are not satisfied. The case wanted, or concept that we have not completely, but in 90% of what we wrote, they showed amendments to match the amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27230	I thank Miss Jovanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Otherwise, for accuracy information Drazen Marusic has been president of the SPS for 15 years in Milanovac. What are you going to do? We need to find a form to win. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted asks for Article 5 to be amended and it reads: ''The submission of the examinations for the acquisition of professional calls under Article 4(1) of this Law shall be carried out under the programme of the established national accounting standard ROS 31 - Professional training of accounting officers. The programme referred to in Article 1 gives consent to the Minister of Finance. The decision to give consent under Article 2(2) shall be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. ''The explanation for the refusal of the amendment says ''Amendment is not accepted. The solution proposed in the draft law is based on the rules of the Eighth Directive of the EU and on the recommendations of the World Bank and on the experiences of all the countries which have educated the chambers of auditors. In the chambers of Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Croatia and other countries, training and training are organised and tests are conducted to obtain a mandated auditor, so it cannot be said that such practice does not exist in other countries. However, it should be borne in mind that Article 6 paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Proposal for a law proposed to train and improve professional titles authorised auditor and authorised internal auditor may organise, in addition to the chamber, professional associations and other legal persons, etc.' Since the Eighth EU Directive is listed here, which addresses the question so-called Mandatory audits, Member States are recommended to regulate their legislation on the basis of guidelines. It is an incorrect claim that professional organisations cannot have the authority, as Article 3 of point 2 of this Directive states that each Member State shall designate the competent authorities responsible for authorising statutory auditors and auditors. The competent authorities may be professional organisations, provided that they are in the public surveillance system, as provided for in this Directive. This provision is logical, because the profession is the most competent in these matters. The view not to recommend that these jobs are done by a professional organisation is contradictory, because it is not well supposed to do so by the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, a half-life accounting organisation, is a member of the IFRS organisation, but it is good to accept the proposal to do so by a new professional organisation, a chamber that is now formed, without any experience and reference, which is also a para-state structure financed from the budget. As far as quality control is concerned, the EU directive insists that Member States provide public oversight of mandatory audits, which is not state control, as misunderstood. In all countries, special bodies have been formed for public oversight of the audit, with quality control being carried out by professional organisations and must report to those bodies in all Western countries, and to those you call upon. If the SRS amendments do not significantly correct the text of the Accounting and Audit Law proposal, we will get a much worse law than the existing one, with inconceivable consequences for financial reporting in Serbia. So far, the experience of all the laws proposed by G17 and the destruction that occurred after that in Serbia's economy as a fact talks about it and therefore I ask you to accept this and all other amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27232	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27233	Of course, since the DOS came to power, we've had a really scary state of everything and everything, and that's just one tendency. Now I would show it through one retrospective what it looks like. At a time when Angelkovic was in power, both later and when the radicals participated in that government, when Mrs Pop-Lazic was the minister of local self-government, then this group is here, sitting and absent, and the one who escaped, claimed that in Serbia the largest centralisation is, because for everything and everything, local authorities must ask the central government. There's been a democratic change, and that's the light when the Parliament, RTS, the National Bank, of course, didn't burn, there's the money, there's the younger one going in with his socks, and after that big democratic change, there's a bigger centralization going on. Here, nothing can be paid in the local government until it asks Mladjan Dinkic, and even if the number of employees is not reduced, the budget will not be transferred. Then the famous Gasha entered the scene. In the fight for the autonomy of colleges and universities, after the second amendment of the Law on Higher Education, a university that has autonomy and universities that are working units of the university. If it were done at a time when Mr. Angelkovic was in power and while I was in power, the NATO pact would have come off the globe of Serbia with rivers, even with Gerdap. But since the democratic government did it, it was done, and then the one who paints the mustaches, the Schumarac, the one who reports to Djindjic as captain and makes a new law on planning and construction, so he predicted licenses and something similar to being pushed here, which is some kind of chamber. This chamber has become full of money, doesn't know how to spend it, has to hold it in some account, and it serves as a backup to someone who, based on these pairs, qualify for something else, but it's not today's theme. The chamber of course questioned the meaning and existence of the Union of Engineers and Technicians in the Republic. Similar work has been done with other institutions. A traineeship has been devalued, an expert exam has been devalued, everything is on the license. So the educators must have licenses and health care professionals, and above all I think about doctors, who had to finish a college that lasted five years, probably finished it in six years, so they had to practice, so they passed a state exam, so if they somehow came to some specialization, a few years of specialization, then they got hired and worked in their profession. Then it wasn't enough, it had to be licensed again. The drugs are licensed, the pharmaceuticals are licensed, all new, licensed, licensed and licensed. We've learned from that experience that you've done quite a bit of exaggeration, and nothing good has brought about that reform that you've been carrying out for the last five or six years, which I've quickly declared chronologically what it looks like. We even got some negative stuff. When it comes to building buildings and responsible contractors, I know in case a licensed engineer, responsible contractor at 15 construction sites, and I was persuaded by an SPS MP to know about one case where 45 sites are licensed. So a new monopoly is being created. Let me tell you something, since I have a little bit more years and more experience in this and that building there, and when we're passing our first law where we're supposed to be an authorised auditor, an accountant, it's at a time when he was a normal finance minister, Jovan Zebic, I have to say, no matter what we disagree on some political issues, but I can't question his profession, because he had a team that worked extremely professionally and responsibly, unlike these new experts, who don't know what responsibility is. At the same time, an initiative was launched to introduce for the first time what would look like these authorized accountants. It's a bit of a mix-up with us, and I have to say that we've been a little bit of an objector, because we thought that the state should be authorized to issue these certificates, licenses and permits. Why did we represent it? Because it was just the system. We tried to put it in the same rank as the bar exam. Then I was wrong, because I wrote that amendment, for one simple reason why you can't judge and auditor, you can't put a doctor and an auditor in the same basket. Why? The entire accounting law is based essentially on estimates. It's based on some standards, there are international standards with us long ago, and the implementation of these standards was carried out by this specialized association. Maybe that's the wrong name for an alliance. I'm not getting into the property structure of that alliance, I don't think it's relevant to what needs to be jurisdiction. I'd like to warn you of one thing. Saving a hunting ground is a state-of-the-art business. The laws leave the boss to associations of citizens, called the Hunting Union. The Hunting Union has some regulations. When it comes to fishing, fish farming is also an association of citizens, as the state believes that the business can work so successfully, but that there are professional organisations that are trained to do some professional work. Of course, I don't want to identify the Union of Accountants and Auditors with the Hunting Alliance, the Fishing Union, or the obligation of a person to pass a judicial exam to meet the condition that there would be judges, because these are all different categories. This is about international standards. International standards are necessary for our accounting statements to be comparable to the statements of neighbouring countries and all states on the globe of the Earth, a team before our country is quite open and has always been open to foreign capital, and if the regulations are identical or approximately identical, then these views of performance, balance sheet, the balance of success can be monitored, regardless of where a legal person has its own capital. Is the state able and is it her job to do what is prescribed in Article 5? What does the state get with that professional chamber? He's getting a new monopoly. Who's winning? They get those close to the finance ministry. I don't think even the finance minister wanted to go to an international meeting in Belgrade, almost the accountants and auditors from all the countries of Europe came to the celebration, I don't know if there were 40 or 50 years of the Alliance, which is relatively well listed in those international associations. Now, because of personal vanity, which goes all the way to anger, something similar to what was done with the association, that is, the Union of Engineers and Technicians. It's completely identical. Is the accountant, the auditor, not to use these other terms authorized, internal, responsible for his job, based on which it fits, as it suits. Do you think that responsibility will be strengthened if the tasks referred to in Article 5 are increased? The bill is for a new chamber to be established, what about these people who have worked for years as authorized auditors? I don't go into transitional and final provisions, I know you can find a solution, so you say, you haven't seen the transitional and final provisions; I've seen it. I'm asking a question, what happens if training these people takes over someone who's not qualified to train them for these things. Probably some people at the Faculty of Economics will resent me for what I'm about to say. Mladjan Dinkic came from the Faculty of Economics. You know how he quoted himself at that college? So his professor said he'd never doctor with me. One can imagine that from the Faculty of Economics, such personnel as Mladjan Dinkic are training someone with accounting jobs. Are we going to be a little honest with you about how much accounting is being taught at the Faculty of Economics, how many classes are there, what year and how deep and wide are you going into accounting? Very little. Do you want me to tell you what kind of personnel from the Faculty of Economics are coming out? When they graduate from the Faculty of Economics, a graduate economist, if employed in a company, first goes to plan and analysis, in normal companies, at a normal time, when he was a traineeship and when someone was preparing for the most responsible jobs of finance and economy in a company. First he goes into the plan and analyzes to learn what the financial plan is, as planned. Rarely any of them went to accounting and accounting. And if he's appointed director of accounting and accounting, whose services does he use? These people with a high school or a higher economic school who passed these exams in the Union of Accountants because they know this craftsmanship. This is purely craftsmanship and skill. Can you imagine a machine engineer working on a string? You can't imagine him. Why? He hasn't learned to work on a string, and if he goes to be a teacher or a teacher somewhere to teach practical classes for years, he's got a problem teaching kids what a stream is and how it's done. And you now know from an economist, a graduate, probably from the entire Faculty of Economics, accounting knows the college accounting staff and the two or three professors who hand over this subject directly, and these two or three professors are always in contact with the Union of Accountants and Auditors about international standards and practical applications. Other publishing houses have now come forward, those offering fine fees to ministry officials, governments and others working in other institutions to make an expert opinion on how to apply the relevant legislation or some standard. I'll tell you right now, it's already been seen, it was during that gunvald-minister for work, that union official, with that clerk of his who forged the vote here. He takes the law, prescribes it to have an expert opinion on the application of the law. This is what some people do about the Ministry of Finance, through some other publishing houses, which Arsic talked about, so that their publication is seen as a mandatory guidebook that applies to those who control what these accounting statements look like, etc. So, in this area there is absolutely no reasonable reason to form a special chamber, nor is there any reasonable reason to stand for what is stated in Article 5 of this bill. This can't be defended professionally, this cannot be defended by the directives, because Miss Jovanovic has read a small portion of the list, a large list of countries in which the accounting and revision of the solution are almost identical to the existing law that is still in force these few days. Why are you changing that? You're changing because you have no control over the Union of Auditors and Accountants. You count it legal and normal only what Mladjan Dinkic listens to. I'm not arguing. You from G17 plus can turn this into your head, you are experts in everything and everything, but those who support or who make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who are represented in this National Assembly should think about where the government of the Republic of Serbia's work leads when it comes to proposing these, previous and similar laws, because for the next time, you won't have time. I call on the MPs not even to accept this bill in principle, because it gives rise to this insolence and insolence, to put everything under the control of one, more people or one organized group of people, who has declared themselves great experts. There was no monopolization in the work of the Union of Accountants and Auditors, which you would in some way insinuate. It is even very specific on the basis of which member and whose laws they adapted international standards to our needs. The Ministry has never dealt with these affairs, and let me tell you why...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27234	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27235	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27236	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vitomir Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on accounting and audit so that Article 5(2) changes and reads: "The programme set out in Article 1 of this Article gives consent to the Ministry of Finance." The reason is that, according to the SRS concept, such transactions should be carried out exclusively by the State Administration, not by an individual. Why do we think our concept is better and what it looks like when an individual decides about it, I'll give you an example from RTB Bor. In 1998, RTB Bor established a Commission to assess the value of the company's total capital. The Commission found that at the lowest liquidation value, the value of RTB Bor's capital of 836 million and 454 thousand dollars. The debts at that time were several times lower. This value was also verified by the Republic's Capital Assessment Directorate. Secondly, for the sale of RTB Bora is never called a tender. Since these are two basic criteria under which a restructuring process can be introduced in the company, since none of these conditions have been met, the restructuring process in RTB Bor has been introduced against the law, which is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Ten days ago, under the orders of Mladjan Dinkic, the work of the Bor smelter in Bor was suspended. In early June, the government is due to open a tender for the sale of RTB Bor. Workers are under terrible pressure to leave RTB, assuring them that there is no further perspective, and the reason is that the government, designed to suspend the production process, wants to present RTB Bor from Bor to the already agreed buyer. Four audit houses, one of which was "Deloitte and Touche", analyzed the business of RTB from Bor and found that RTB Bor had lost 302m euros in business in two years. This report was signed in February of this year by Mr. Labus and Mr. Naumov. It's so stupid that 302m euros can buy all of Bor's living space almost three times. If RTB Bor hadn't produced and sold anything in those two years, business costs wouldn't have been nearly that high, but auditors' houses invented such a figure to give the RTB Bor privatisation process as something completely worthless. Our fellow SRS MP Branislav Rankic in the Assembly showed a programme to revitalise the base Bor, which would provide mining in the base over the next 100 years, but with the help of the government, which would be interested in preserving natural treasures and exploiting them for the benefit of Serbian citizens, not giving gifts, as this government does. It is important to note that the citizens of Bora and Majdanpek are exposed to a huge fraud, and they are kept in full informative darkness, because no one from the government or from the management tells them anything about the upcoming privatisation, which clearly points to the will of individuals. Whose concept is more acceptable for the citizens of Bora will be decided by the citizens themselves already on 28 May when voting in the election for the president of the Bor municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27238	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what it looks like when a finance minister brings in individual acts, especially if the profession is no longer asked, especially if it is a way of determining the value of an enterprise. In the very proposal for a law on accounting and audit, it is the minister who determines how international accounting standards are calculated and applied. We had the Final Account Act, where the minister is again the one who determines what way of amortising and revorizing the basic funds to be applied. So in one of these ways, you can, by applying two or three laws, completely devalue state capital. It seems to me that this is also the goal when such laws are passed, not by an organ, but by an individual, who sets himself above the law, who sets himself above this congregation, who sets himself above the state. For whose interest one such act was signed by Mladjan Dinkic, we will see if he succeeds in the privatisation process of RTB Bor, we will see what standards Mladjan Dinkic will apply when he tries to sell the EPS, when he tries to sell the Elektro Network to Serbia, NIS, the NIS sales network. All that is done now is to prepare all economic operators, which are so far in state property and which are really worth it, whether because of their monopoly position on the market, but it is state-owned enterprises, or because of the right to use certain mineral raw materials and ore, meaning for which value such companies will be sold. Too much authority for an economy that is privatized, too many ways to abuse that privatisation. However, with such legal proposals, you will give the minister the right to act this way, not to answer the law, and to sell out what is most valuable right now in the state. These are the great giants, who even the old Yugoslavia, I mean the SFRY, supported. Now someone for small money, for modest means to come into possession of these businesses, to exploit our natural resources, our ore. When he's done exploiting it, all he'll be left behind is a wreck, he'll be running without any program. You've already started it with the concession law, which will apply to companies like this, to those mining sites that haven't started exploiting yet. So, someone with no problem, for little money, to come into possession of these treasures, and to make things worse, we should also give legal consent to the minister for one of these robberies.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27240	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 6. Amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27241	Since it's in the same text, Mr. Angelkovic, don't be angry that I'm going to explain this on your behalf?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27242	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27243	That's very important. Mr. Angelkovic, look what made you and me write this amendment. You too have seen the intentions of Mladjan Dinkic. He wrote in Article 6. "Organization of the examinations for the acquisition of professional titles from Article 4(1) of this Law shall be carried out by a chamber. In order to conduct the chamber exams, he educates a special commission." Article 2 states: "The Chamber, the Association of Professionals and the Second Legal Person can organise training for passing tests to obtain professional titles from Article 1, as well as professional training of persons certified to such titles, in accordance with international guidelines and requirements for the education of professional accountants." This means that it is passed before the chamber's commission, and training, to learn something, can carry out more exams, and only one who prepared the exam where Mladjan Dinkic directed it. So, you from the Union of Accountants and Auditors after this law can consider yourself to have been extinguished by Mladjan Dinkic, because if such primate gets a chamber, colleges and other organizations, which as employees have a minimum number of experts who can train, then know that both membership, both accountants and auditors will be directed to other destinations. What are these destinations? These are those destinations that guarantee that the accounts will always be made by one selective principle. What's that gonna depend on? Only from Mladjan Dinkic. No more naives today. Whoever resents Mladjan Dinkic doesn't exist. That's the experience. You saw for yourself, he doesn't have that power, but he pretends everywhere that he is the representative of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, that they accept him, that only thanks to him came the write-off, the shut-down, he's the leader, he's the perspective, he and Djelic are running a dead race which of them is a greater perspective for Europe in the 21st century. I have no intention of treating the pathological states of the consciousness of certain people here, but I have to tell you that it drives a man to some kind of activity. You could have noticed, all the laws coming from the Ministry of Finance, for which the befel gives Mladjan Dinkic, have that line recognizable. Now, as he ends it in the government, you know, there are ten interesting plots, ten interesting groups, you to me -- I to you, if you to me -- I won't to you, etc. For those who are members of the Security Committee to remind me of this, it means something like listening to a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia held during Zoran Zivkovic. So Batic says -- we have to arrest that guy, and Ceda Jovanovic says -- and no, if we arrest him, then Batic will be arrested by this one of yours from "Sablje". Now he's not threatening to arrest, but the impact zones are present. The SPO still exists until the Genex is privatized and probably this Fairground. I see that Trpkovic growing all the time, his weight growing. So that's it, the citizens of Serbia need to know that. There's no profession here, let you talk about the profession, about the experts, there's no such thing as that. What Mr. Angelkovic and Mr. Ivan Radic suggest. They suggest that article 6 be changed, that there are no two attitudes, that there is only one attitude. "The organisation of the examinations for the acquisition of professional titles referred to in Article 4(1) of this Law shall be carried out by a professional organisation of a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC)." Of course, this amendment follows what was previously required to change into an article. Four and five, not to go much sooner. So I tried to tell you what motivated Mladjan Dinkic to do this, what effects would it be if what was proposed was adopted and called for you to take care, because you see for yourself, nothing in this Serbia can hide. It's only a matter of days before it comes out. If they couldn't hide what they were doing in Sabre, then 12, 13 thousand were arrested, so they did all kinds of things. There's gonna be a time when I'm going to show that file that I have from Sabrela, which I've been collecting anonymously. And you'll see, and these privatisations, and I have this file, and I didn't want to give these to my Privatisation Committee guys to keep them off file. There's all this report, who's sitting where he's sitting, who he's been making deals with, who went to Bulgaria, who went to Turkey, how it all exists. Serbia is a small country, and it knows everything about what's going on. But believe me, since it's so small, this bar has been reduced, and crocodiles have become grammistical, used to the same apanaze. The number of crocodiles has increased, and now you're going to be biting each other, it's inevitable. It's a natural flow of things, when everything is reduced, then the Gramps come out to the surface and crash each other and compete with each other. I have to tell you, you see there in 1985, 1986, and even in 1987 the first beginners of the private sector in Serbia were commercial travelers, and they formed some companies there on paper, so the transge-fange, when they sell state goods, they sell their goods a little bit, so they got a little money, they saw that late payments, and then they said, let's make expensives. They've been spinning around, spinning around, making a little more money, which system -- they take goods from a social firm, they've got 90 to 180 days, and he turns that money around three or four times, so there's this splattering of SFRY, so whoever stays as long as they owe, they make a little bit of drive, some stores, and so on. Ninety percent of those died in 1993. And then a new group came out. Which one? Those who were below the line could do whatever they wanted and bring there to the SDK and change the currency dinars. So that group's a little out of breath, it's formed a third, now you call it tycoons. Now there's a fourth, it's an organized system, remember. As the fourth is created, so is this, among other things, this. So everything has to be under some control, no matter what the system is. America has an extremely dissociative system of state authorities and para-state authorities, simply capillaries, but it's all in the control system. You're trying to imitate it, but be assured, you can't exercise control. Why? Because the government is not unilateral, it is multiparty and there is an imminent conflict of interest, especially in these times as it is today, when it is quite certain that in a few months there will be elections and positioning is needed. You'll see how you'll bite yourself in an election campaign and prove who was right, and then it will be confirmed, in your campaigns all our words from this pay phone will be confirmed. We talked to you seven months in advance about Karic, and you said, "In, right on the job, you're done." We've been telling you about Kljajevic for two years, no, you're done. And don't make me order any further. So Mr. Angelkovic and Mr. Radic have submitted an amendment that they practically want to keep existing. Why, among other things, do they want to keep the existing ones? So this existing thing so far has also been in line with international standards, and then it's impossible that it's in line with international standards, and what you're proposing, and it's the diametric opposite of each other. If it didn't bother you so far, what's it that bothers you now, what's the rule, what's the standard, which is why the principles have to change the provisions of this law? We were trying to propose to the Assembly a completely different concept of accounting and audit laws. We didn't offer it, to tell you honestly because we didn't want to let anyone live on our bill. That's how many laws we've proposed, that's where the hands get up, the legs don't go through. And even if our law had passed by chance, you would have again called the Constitutional Court to bring a temporary measure not to apply the law, even though the maltenes had not yet come due for its application. As you did with the Law on the Rights of Indictees who voluntarily surrendered to the UN tribunal. The law hasn't lived for a day, it's dead. For what? Dinkic said - I will not pay from the budget, I do not recognise any laws. He's a measure of law, you see people, he's a measure of law. Then let's rephrase it into the Constitution, glamour it in the Constitution, first page when you open the Constitution His Majesty Mladjan Dinkic has made a statement and says - I am the Constitution, I am the law. This looks a little bit so scrawny, but believe me, it's just like that. Last time I told you, they did some B-92 control, there they all worked wild, who knows what Veran Matic flies etc. The inspector had to bend his ears and run away so he wouldn't lose his employment, even though he applied the law. It's all covered up, but Mladjko shows up at that spring girl Bećkovic. No, the law is Mladjan Dinkic, and Vojislav Kostunica, of course, sleeps.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27244	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. We'd like to change, but we don't want to change this term. That's the only thing that, by the way, we got along just fine. Does anyone else have a word on this amendment? Well, I don't think, in the right way, he understood our amendment, Mr Krasic, and I thank him for not making me leave the pay phone. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27245	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is at least surprising why this amendment to Article 7 is not accepted. It's about the division of legal entities, how they're going to be classified, into small, medium or large. However, there are certain financial institutions that still need to be classified as large legal entities and must be subject to international accounting standards. In article 7, MP Momcilo Duvnjak, who submitted the amendment on behalf of the SRS, asked for a new position to be added after Article 4, which reads: "To large legal entities, within the meaning of this law, banks and other financial organisations, insurance organisations, stock exchanges and stock exchanges are considered. The government has rejected this amendment. Now the question is why, especially when it comes to banks, someone does not seem to want international accounting standards to be applied to banks, especially given the authority of the National Bank that it is the one that determines what standards will apply to banks, insurance companies and stock exchanges. If the bank is not classified as a large or medium-sized legal entity, will it be obliged to follow the instructions of the National Bank. In that case, the law goes into its own collegiation. What are the conditions for someone to be classified in a large legal person? One of the conditions, it doesn't matter which one has more than 250 employees. The second condition is that it has more income than 10m euros in dinar equivalent. The third condition is that his business assets are higher than fivem euros in dinar equivalent. Now I'm asking just one question -- how long does it take for the bank to pay into the NBS deposit to get permission to work? Is that her business property, too? How long does it take an insurance company to do the same? How long does it take someone who's working on a lease to pay the NBS to do that? So, there are no answers to all these questions, and now I'm asking the question -- and how these banks and other financial organisations are going to do business if they are not subject to international accounting standards, because our banks, as they are, as payment agents, are not only in internal transport, but also in foreign affairs. They are those who can also deal with the business of trading securities of value, which can participate on both domestic and foreign markets without the consent of the Commission etc. Now one logical question is being asked - and on what criteria will this bank show its profits? Is it the bank that has to be staffed and organised to be able to run its own bookkeeping or will even the banks hire this chamber to do so for them? At the very least, it's a wonder why this amendment is not accepted. Is there any reason why it would be assessed and based on what criteria would these banks be assessed for staying in social, or state property? Will international accounting standards or other specific standards be used in the privatisation process, so that someone comes back to this little bank still owned by the state? How will their assets and how will they be accounted for, how will the revaluation of the underlying assets be done, how will depreciation be done? Will they be obliged to adhere to the specific frameworks for the continuum plan, etc? At the very least, it is surprising not to accept this amendment, especially for the reason that banks, insurance organisations, stock exchanges and stock exchanges, as you say, are now in these system laws, which have been here a few days ago, bearers of a new business system and a new practice here. The only question is whether international accounting standards will be applied to them or whether they will be subject to specific standards, which apply only to them. And in particular, I mean "Dunav," an insurance company, which has, thanks to its many-year presence on the market, a certain monopoly, which, in spite of the great abuses in the company itself, has preserved itself, which has its own market, which is not little? How will they and by what standards do you calculate their value in the privatisation process? In the privatisation process that you're conducting, you forgot about the other thing, which is that it's not just about the value of the company's assets and crafts assets. It's also the market he buys when he buys that company. When you realize that, then we can talk about why you didn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27246	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragutin Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27247	To Article 8. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on accounting and audit in the part of Article 8 in particular to Article 1, and all for the reasons I consider that the solution I propose to this amendment is much more precise and much better than it was given in the draft law. This amendment requires that Article 8(1) be amended and read as follows: "Legal persons and entrepreneurs shall, by means of a general act, regulate the organisation of the accounting system, internal accounting control procedures, determine the persons responsible for the legality and regularity of the creation of business change and the establishment of documents on business change, regulate the movement of accounting documents and set deadlines for their delivery for further processing". Comparing the solution given in the draft law and amendments I have made to Article 8(1). The draft accounting law, I believe, is a much more precise, precise and better solution in the amendment than this solution given in the bill. I therefore believe that this amendment should be adopted by law on accounting and audit.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27248	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, submitted by MP Milomir Minić and Zoran Antić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27249	Here's how it goes with international standards, what they say and how they represent themselves and how they change depending on what I just talked about. Article 16 The bill, the article begins with a chapter -- trusting the management of business books and drawing up financial reports. Article 16 has two bets. The first reads: "The legal person, i.e. the entrepreneur, regulates school equipment, work experience and other conditions for a person who keeps business books and draws up financial reports. ''Stat 2: ''The legal person and entrepreneur shall, by means of a general act, determine the person employed by the legal person and the entrepreneur entrusted with the management of business books and the assembly of financial reports. 'Now, if I don't get around much, I'm going to say what is proposed by this amendment by Mr. Miniæ and Zoran Antic. They are asking for a change in attitude 1 and it should read: 'The legal person, that is, the entity of the general act, regulates the school's equipment, professional title from Article 4 of Article 1 of this Law, work experience and other conditions for the person who keeps the books and draws up financial reports. ''Of course, I am incentivising this Article 4th paragraph 1 refers to one of the previous amendments which we asked for to be classified in that Article 4th paragraph 1 by the names of this person. So this amendment 16 has been worked out. Unfortunately, it is not accepted by the Government, with the reason that a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur, needs to establish on his own the conditions regarding the professional arrangement and other conditions for persons entrusted with the management of business books. If I'm supposed to determine, then he can put a locksmith on. That's your answer. So the head of accounting can be a locksmith. I don't know that locksmith who'd accept running accounting. Now, let's tell you, in these regulations that you consider to be undemocratic and that there are no international standards in which we once voted here, just to remind you, Article 6. The 1996 Accounting Act was prescribed professional calls in accounting, which were taken over from the National Accounting Standard, that is some standard number 31. These same professional titles, so now to remind you, accountants, independent accountants, authorised accountants, depending on the level of work to be done, are contained in Article 21(2) point 1. of the now applicable Accounting and Audit Act. And to remind you, it's a law that was passed when democracy was maximum in force in Serbia. It was adopted and published in SRJ Official List No. 71/2002. It's probably October 2002, then democracy flourished in Serbia. And in Official Messenger number 55/2004, the government proposed an appropriate amendment to the law, but it did not touch it. Such a legal solution is understandable and necessary because, most often, the legal representative of the legal person, as well as the entrepreneur, is not professional enough to determine the necessary conditions, given that their field of work is related to completely other areas and not accounting. For every country, it should be the most important thing to have good records and true financial reports, and that only by review can't be provided, no matter what it is. In the absence of this obligation, as has now been formulated, the conduct of business books and the collection of financial reports can be entrusted to any person, regardless of their schooling and professional professional training, which would lead to further publicisation and chaotic status in this area and be completely contrary to the idea of forming a chamber. So, on the one hand, we have to promote the idea of forming a chamber, and on the other hand, what lays there has nothing to do with it, the legal face and the entrepreneur can figure out what they want. These are some things that the most democratic part of the democratic bloc proposes as a highlight and as some standard that applies everywhere in the world, so it would have to be applied to us. So, it is purely the private law of Mladjan Dinkic and you who will vote for this law, for, against or you will be abstained, you must know that this is how you support Mladjan Dinkic and enable him to pursue absolute personal interests. You see that from members to members there is a contradiction and we are going for a few spears lower than we have now achieved some development.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27250	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS are trying to fix a bill like this as much as possible. It seems to me that the bill was written for someone private, but the law is a public document that is in place and someone needs to implement it. Article 16, whose amendment is required, reads: 'The legal person, that is, the entity of the general act, shall regulate the school's equipment, work experience and other conditions for the person who keeps the books and draws up a financial report. By means of a general act, the legal person and entrepreneur shall determine the person employed by the legal person and the entrepreneur entrusted with the management of the business books and the assembly of financial reports. ''Now, when a man reads this like this, it's an impression that anyone can do business in keeping business books and putting together financial reports. Just to remind you, in some other times, the law that regulated one of this kind of matter forbidded even that the person that the cashier was putting together a financial report. That they can't even be connected persons, you know, in blood relation, marriage mates, on the Tazbin line, etc., just to prevent possible abuses when compiling financial reports. You know, an employer can require someone to put together a bad financial report, which doesn't correspond to the actual state. Most often it can also be rejected, if the one who draws up such a report simply does not want its profession, knowledge, to be subordinated to the objectives of the employer. But if they are related, such abuses may arise. However, it is not the subject of this amendment now. But here's how it used to be handled. In an amendment submitted by MP Goran Dunjic on behalf of the SRS, the following text is required to be included in the law, which is: 'The conduct of business books, the assembly and presentation of legal entity financial reports and entrepreneurs shall be carried out by a professional person. An expert referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article must meet the following conditions: 1) that he has passed a professional examination for an appropriate professional calling (accounter, independent accountant and authorised accountant). ''You even now that you have people who have finished college, so in that seventh degree, an accountant doesn't need a special exam, it's enough to have a degree in economics and that's quite enough to do this job. For example, when it comes to working in state authorities, despite the fact that someone has graduated from college, that they have passed a professional examination in the area or what was previously called a state exam. In order for someone to be able to perform medical practice, they have to finish the internship, pass the state's exam and be a doctor, a doctor, for a specialist is already another story. However, this is not about such high titles, but in any case, because of the extensive matter and importance of the final account system itself, and the keeping of business books, that job should be performed by a professional person or at least by an engaged person on the part of the employer, regardless of whether it is a legal person or an entrepreneur. With such a proposal, as we have in law, this job can be done by anyone. So let's say that the condition is that he only has high school equipment without having anything to do with accounting itself, if he passes that exam, he can do it. However, there are no conditions here, with elementary school. There's no conditions for him to work in any place. He can do it with a primary school. It's a real paradise for the tax police, though, for market inspection, because unprofessional people are going to run business books. Because unprofessional people will run business books, you will be able to run all over Serbia and charge the fines. You know, so far, this is how it's done, your inspection services are going, so they punish people because at the very price of the item a bit faded color, they punish because the hours of work have faded a little bit, he doesn't see a nice company above the store, he didn't issue a fiscal bill before he took the money but at the moment he was taking a knock he had a fiscal bill. You charge huge fines for that. When those who are not professional do so, those who do not know how, by proposing such a law to legal persons and entrepreneurs, because people look as cheaply as they are, you will give them the opportunity to run their own business books, so unprofessional as they are in the vast majority, and then your tax authorities and all the other inspection authorities will lean on them, so they'll come out much more expensive than a contract with some house that will do the job for them, or for example. to accept someone in a working relationship who will do the job for them again. So I suggest that the MPs accept this amendment in voting day. However, some will not like it because of penalties and other duties they will not be able to fill the planned budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27252	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Istvan Takach. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. MP Istvan Takach withdraws the amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27253	We're gonna speed up a little bit after we're near the end of business hours, and then six isn't worth talking to in front of a half-empty gym. I would just like to comment on what has been proposed to change in Article 17, which is behind the words "employees" to add the words "only to an appropriate professional calling". This is in the sense of who is authorised to run the business books and, of course, makes a logical connection with the amendment that we have submitted to Article 28, where we are asking for attitude 2 to be changed, that, in addition to the managing body of the legal person, i.e. the entrepreneur, the responsibility for the accuracy of the statement with the managing authority also has a person who has been designated by a general act to draw up financial reports. We don't know why he's getting rid of that person's responsibility. For the sake of some parallels, I must tell you that there are violations in our regulations when a body has formally committed an offence, so since the state cannot be held accountable for the offence, it is very often prescribed that the person responsible for the work in the name of the authority should be responsible for the offence. So no matter what he does in the state organ. Here, a face directly executed by these financial reports is simply thrown out. This is where the legal person and the entrepreneur are forced, that is, the so-called. objective responsibility. It is also present in the criminal provisions of this bill. However, these are economic offences under Article 68 and a violation only for the entrepreneur referred to in Article 69. It's a completely different concept. Earlier, much greater responsibility had a person who directly compiled those reports. From what I read in the explanation, there is something proposed, very often the hostage responded, and they had to book something on the orders of the director, so the director was not responsible under the law, but was responsible for the person who, in the course of his duties, had to manage accounting and display this. We believe that, in addition to the legal person's responsibility, which is unquestionable and that of a commercial offence, it must be the person who runs those books, and what you have defined here in paragraph 3, as the legal representative of the legal person. It's probably meant by the managing authority, or the director, and we don't think it's good, and it's not consistent with the intensities. Everyone's responsible for the job he did, everyone's responsible for what he did. The legal person responds in an objective manner, the Director as the responsible person of a legal person, but as a direct perpetrator of something that is a commercial offence, the act of a commercial offence or the act of an offence, should correspond to the person who is authorised and obliged to run those books. If you take that face out of responsibility, then you really ask the question of why the chamber, why training, why the exam, why the general act that determines jobs, faces, the movement of accounting documents, etc. You're in one piece going towards some precision and strengthening responsibility, we don't touch that part, and then here when the question of responsibility comes out, you throw that face out. I've only shown you on one occasion how illogical it is. So we have a lot of laws where a civil servant is trespassing because of something he didn't do in time, etc. Why does he answer? The state can't answer as a legal person, but he as a natural person, as a citizen, as an employee of the state authority responds because he has done something that is a violation of the public order, and that is some kind of violation. You are here ousting the responsibility of a person who is a direct perpetrator of something that was later identified as a failure in the financial report and inaccuracy. Just for the sake of clarity, since two words come out here, true and fair. Differently, what exists in international standards cannot be translated, and those two words in our language should be interpreted as true, because the word includes both truthfulness and honesty, and it is much better to have used it. We've been looking through your simplests for a while. We didn't want to correct your obvious failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27254	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Skrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27255	Mr President, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on accounting and audit. The amendment speaks of Article 29, where it is simply required to delete that member. I know that the parliamentary majority has a lot against the fact that we, in a brief explanation of the amendments that we write on various laws, say briefly that this member should be deleted, but I will try to explain to you and explain to you that this is not true and that this Article 29 must be deleted, as Mr Jovan Todorovic, MP of the second parliamentary group, a group that supports this government, also agreed. In addition to those Members we have discussed so far, this amendment to Article 29 has not been accepted and is proposed to delete this article as unnecessary, given that internal audit is not mandatory and that it is a question in the area of internal regulation and management competence and their assessment of the need to introduce an internal audit. However, in the light of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a reason for not accepting my amendment, it is stated that the company with limited liability and companies must have an internal auditor or an internal auditor's committee. It's in the government's explanation, which is absolutely not true. Namely, the Business Society Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, number 125/04, prescribed Article 168(1) that a limited liability company should have an internal auditor or an auditor's committee, if so determined by a founding act or contract of members of society. Article 329(1) states that the founding act or the Statute of an open company may be determined, and that the company has an internal auditor, supervisory board or auditor's committee. So it's about dispositive norms that only give opportunity, and it doesn't create obligations, except, as I just said, when it comes to listed stock companies. Thus, these allegations of reason by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that the Business Society Act, are prescribed that companies with limited liability in stock companies must have an internal auditor or an internal auditor's committee, that is absolutely incorrect. Of course, I wouldn't be saying this by heart if I and my colleagues from the SRS group hadn't consulted with people who deal with these problems every day. Instead of the successful work and activities of these people and these alliances to award some recognition, this alliance is being attacked by the Ministry of Finance or some profitable companies, stock companies, who are being forced to be what the government wants. This is about something else, or to cut short, as counterpart Krasic said, as the working time expires, so I don't explain everything, because I'd have a lot to do with this member, to explain, and maybe I will, because besides that, the bill has a number of shortcomings and makes it incomplete and vague, and in some parts and inapplicable, ladies and gentlemen. The particular question is that the law does not comply with international standards, European Union directives, which you want to enter at all costs, and World Bank recommendations, although it is stated in the explanation that it is harmonised, which is not true. A colleague Krasic just found it. I can't keep both things in line with that law, both this and that. Finally, finally, to say that the general assessment that adopting such a law would certainly cause major damage to the financial reporting system in Serbia, and believe me, accounting and that profession would bring a completely irrelevant role and marginalise it. For this reason, this proposal should, in the opinion of many, be withdrawn from the adoption procedure and put or drawn up a new text, which would be clear, applicable and based on the modern achievements of accounting practice and theory, but with the participation of competent scientific and professional public and agreement of all parliamentary groups, not just one. When I say this, I mean Minister Dinkic, Ministry of Finance and G17 plus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27256	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sava Urosevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Jovan Todorovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 50 and 50. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27257	We've accelerated a little bit, we didn't want to report for a few amendments, as the reasons are repeated. Probably this amendment, maybe two more, we'll need to explain, the rest of us don't need to explain. I'd like to return to Article 29 because it has something to do with Article 50 that I've submitted the amendment to. I think this has got to be stamped somehow. Internal audit is given as a possibility and no one is against it if anything is possible, and it is not mandatory. Probably all companies need to have their own internal audits, be aware of what's going on in time, so they can see in time what the final financial results of a business year will be. However, we cannot accept what the Government thus informs the Assembly when something does not accept. The government can notify that it does not accept the amendment, can potentiate in its opinion, as the beginning of the sentence in paragraph 1, that a legal person can provide, but cannot say in law in certain cases -- it is duty to provide. I would interpret this more from the point of view of banks and insurance companies, but you don't put it in your opinion. In your opinion, you refer to the relevant provisions of the Company Act, which relate to limited liability companies and companies, and under which conditions it is known that it may, above all, depend on the founders and the founding act, but there is no obligation. It's not good for you where there's a possibility to represent us as if there's a commitment. If you are already doing this, and you intend to amend those provisions in the Business Society Act, then you have to tell us: it is true, in the existing Business Society Act, there is no obligation, but the possibility is given, but we think in the next phase to change the relevant provisions of the Business Society Act, where we will create the obligation to have an internal audit. As far as I'm concerned, there could probably be a commitment when it comes to large enterprises, because it's not quite the state that at the end of the year the business of a large company will end. To get back to Article 50. All the members we have submitted to the amendments, from Article 50, possibly to Article 59, are concerned with the conceptal disagreement. You interpret the chamber of authorized auditors as a mandatory association of individual auditors, and we accept that there is a chamber, but as a chamber that would be an association of audit houses. That's the principle difference. That would be the audit company. They should have their own chamber because of some other significance. This is where you tie it to an individual. Since we are, in principle, different about the appearance and composition of that chamber, it is quite normal to have submitted amendments to the next nine members, where the individual and I are turning this over to an enterprise that is authorized to deal with audit operations. Of course, you know for a fact that there are a lot of these companies in the country dealing with the audits that foreigners have set up. It is much better quoted than our businesses, because this subjective mentality has done its part - as soon as it is there in a foreign language, then it is European, worldly, like this Vlahovic "Dilaj shower", that it is very serious. There was a crowd there, with Djindjic headed, who cheered and clothed Serbia's economy. I wouldn't explain any more specific things. You know, we're very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, You're building a chamber in which the members are individuals with appropriate titles, and we suggest, if you already have to build a chamber, then create a chamber where members would be audit houses. In the end, since I have no intention of answering, because we're working until 6:00, and now it's 18.15, by 6:00, and we have an obligation to talk in front of an empty room, but since 18.00, we really don't have the obligation to talk in front of an empty gym, we think that today we've brought enough reason for this bill. You can see for yourself that there is quite a discrepancy. I'm a little upset that there are disagreements from the G17 Plus MPs, because they've dared to write some amendments, too. It probably indicates that it recognizes what motives are, and what is the aim of this concept of accounting and audit laws. We cannot accept this concept of law. We must immediately tell you that by accepting our amendments, it is likely 70-80% of the objections, i.e. the shortcomings, but know that it will continue to be a law that will be below the level of the existing law, regardless of what it means "Employment Review", some college professors, some directors of audit houses, some who have long-term arrangements with some banks, etc. Just to remind you, one auditory house gave its findings when Jelasic shut down this bank where Sister Cedomir Jovanovic works, they argue these Democrats, the Social Democrats in the West just fight, and now they have different names, this Credit-Export Bank. It was this Vlahovic's house that made the find, as Jelasic asked some authorised auditor to assess the founding capital and whether the bank meets the requirements, a minimum of the capital base, and she found that the conditions had been met. You see, you've kicked off such a significant auditory house, shut down and entered some disputes. Of course, the case worked afterwards and this Simic guy, Mickov's friend, was arrested, etc. I could tell you a lot about this, but we're going to have to leave for a few more days, because it's going to take so long for this assembly, since this is probably the pre-last session of the National Assembly in this session, because you've done so well in these six years: you've destroyed the SRJ, you've made Solana, you've debted us so that we can't take another 20 years off, you've put us in charge that our chukunuanas can't even be disbursed. Part by piece is lost and in terms of emotions, both in terms of territory, and in terms of importance and influence. Celebrating the Ustashas in Zagreb, the glory of Shipari in Pristina, the glory of Albanians in Tirana and the celebration of Milosevic Albianic with G17 on the streets of Belgrade. You are conducting a referendum on Serbia's independence, enjoying it. The government stands for community, one part of the government for destruction. You're listening to the citizens of Serbia. Citizens of Serbia, everything proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vojislav Kostunica and Miroljub Labus, as Mr Albianic knew until a few days ago that he was boasting here, is bad, and you can see how bad it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27258	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milovan Radovanovic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Jovan Todorovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27259	Ladies and gentlemen, it's already been seen here that someone who wrote this law, who invented this chamber, some things and relationships in the International Federation of Accountants doesn't know. He does not know that by the statute of that Federation, bodies that are not independent, which are not professional, cannot be members of that Federation. That's your problem when you wrote this law. In Article 52 that you have proposed, it is only for the sake of order, that someone has some authority, so he will become a member of the International Federation of Accountants, in accordance with the statute of the Federation. And why would the chamber become a member of the International Federation of Accountants, or what such a chamber, when they already have members here, the Union of Accountants and Auditors has been a member of the International Federation of Accountants for 55 years. So, one professional association. If you want to educate the chambers, watch how the chamber is educated. "Members of the Chamber shall be authorised auditors who are employed in the audit company and authorised internal auditors, as well as the audit company", Article. Position two 50. So, in order to become a member of the chamber, it is understood that it must be in a working relationship in a legal person. When Serbia's Bar Association was established, no one was asking whether anyone was working in a legal person or doing the job independently, as a lawyer's office. So this is where you've already set up and defined the condition that he has to be employed by an audit firm, where an internal auditor is authorized or so on. So an accounting audit can be freely said to be a kind of trade. In article 52, you overcome yourself and say that the chamber is authorized to become a member of the International Federation of Accountants in accordance with the statutes of the Federation. The statute of this Federation rules you out. This is already seen in Article 54, it says: The Assembly is the highest body of the chamber. The assembly elects the speaker of the assembly from the order of authorised auditors of chamber members. So it is said -- in the last position of members of 54 -- the representative of the ministry is a member of the assembly, the Executive Authority is a member of the Assembly of the Professional Association. You think you'll get away with this at the International Federation of Accountants? Let's see what it looks like next. The Supervisory Board has five members. The Supervisory Board consists of the President, the Vice-President, one representative of the Ministry and two representatives of the audit firm. So there's not only a representative of the ministry in the assembly, there's also a supervisory board. Let's see how far you go to control and you set accounting and audit standards. Article 59 states: ''The Chamber shall obtain funds for the work of a member's contribution, fees for the conduct of exams and the issue of certificates, licences, registration fees and the provision of data from the registers it maintains, donations, sponsorships, gifts and other sources, in accordance with the law. ''In the following position, you say, ''The funds for the beginning of the work of the Chamber can be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. '' Which means that if the president is not at the will of the finance minister there will be no initial funds, the vice-president, if he is not willing, there will be no initial funds again, two representatives of the audit firm unless they are on the Supervisory Board at the will of the finance minister there will be no initial means to work again. So whatever body is proposed by this law, the assembly, the council, the supervisory board and the disciplinary committee, unless they are at the will of the ministry, there are no initial means to work. Now tell me that this chamber is an independent professional association of auditors and companies dealing with audit affairs. That independence has nothing to do with it. If you want to make one such organ, leave it, give it a legal option, let it itself, in accordance with the law where there are no such provisions, be established. If he's already got some trusty jobs to do, then on these entrusted jobs, the program that he's gonna do, etc., you're just giving him consent. And this is what you do, out of this desire to, I don't know why, maybe because of the interest of some other consulting houses, the Exclusion of Accountants and Auditors, you're ready to engage with the International Federation of Accountants. First, they will hardly accept any member other than the one who has been there for 55 years, and the second reason, they will not because there is a representative of the ministry in one body that should be professional and independent. And yet, to make things worse, you set a budget for him to fund. So, em has a representative of the executive authority, whether they are delegated or appointed or how you imagine it to be one story, em on the other hand you give them initial funds, until prices are determined, means membership fees, the price of passing professional exams, the price of extension licences, or the license for accounting, audit, registration etc. So what will happen then means whether you have prevented any abuse; you are not one. Even because the ministry is present, because this is a larger conglomerate that is more expensive, which is more expensive and more expensive and those who want to deal with accounting audits, to be burdened with various licensing, extension of licences, etc. You know, that story from the beginning of this debate that the aim of the promoter was to prevent the monopoly between accountants and auditors from falling into the water here. So let's prevent one monopoly, instead of limiting it, from setting him up with the frameworks that he can find, we're now making another, and only by the state, where the state, at least when things like this are involved, should not interfere. He can give consent, refuse to make recommendations, etc. But there is a certain practice in the world when it comes to this area. You don't respect that practice, and we'll see how this ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27260	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 53rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Paja Momcilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to a set of these laws we're talking about these days, we can say that they are written selectively, so we can say freely, as my colleagues in the SRS have said, and the private laws of the finance minister. In fact, we Serbian radicals, as well as in principle, as well as the amendment proposal, have done everything we can to show our amendments, which are systematically linked, to explain them professionally and to show you fellow Members and the public and to prove that we are right and that one such legal project simply does not bring any good to anyone. These are, in my opinion, some populist laws, in part, you want to get in touch with the international community, and in part you want to centralize or bureaucratize those things that can get out of your hands, especially the Ministry of Finance. And this accounting and audit law shows that there are many shortcomings, that there is simply no progress made in relation to the previous law and the previous period, especially when we talk about my amendment, which I have submitted to Article 54 of the Accounting and Audit Act. A member who is characterized by this law by the fact that you want to create a new mono-political organisation or a para-state organisation, i.e. chamber. We know that so far in this area we have had the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, who have been competent in this area and recognised by the International Federation of Accountants, so they are right when they raise their voice and say that since the organisation, whose name is the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, is the association of all professional accountants, whether they are employees or work in public practice in accounting and audit or related affairs. They spent 55 years doing this work. Normally, if there was an abuse in the area, it could in some ways be limited by a legal proposal, and it could not be established by new monopolitical organisations such as the chamber. My amendment to article 54 predicted that the chamber organ, such as the congregation, does not exist. Why? Because the ingenuities and affairs of the chamber match or overlap or may be defined together, so we think that there is no need and no congregation of the chamber, especially in this way as defined. I'll just mention that the assembly is the highest authority of the chamber, and here I'm not listing its work, but I'm going to say that the finance minister is giving consent to elect the president of the assembly. Whether it's an independent organization now or not, you have to evaluate it yourself. Let's just go back to Article 50 and just remind myself of the work done by the chamber, and then I'll say the work done by the assembly, and you'll see that these jobs overlap and match and simply double some jobs, and we know that every organization that is financed from the budget, spends budgets and normally gives new pressure on the citizens of Serbia. It is said, among other things, that the chamber performs the following tasks - follows the process of harmonisation of accounting and audit regulations with international professional regulation, adopts a programme, conducts training of candidates, organises examinations and certifications for the acquisition of professional titles, as well as rules for continuous professional training, in accordance with international requirements for professional training under this law, prescribes conditions for obtaining, extending and withdrawing licences for the performance of audit operations by authorised auditors for the work of audits of financial reports, in accordance with this law, issue, extends and withdraws licences for the conduct of audits of financial reports to authorised auditors and manages the register of authorised auditors for the conduct of audits of financial reports. It's only part of the chamber's jurisdiction, and here's part of the congregation's jurisdiction, so you'll see for yourself why I filed this article. Among other things, the responsibility of the Chamber Assembly is to adopt a programme for the acquisition of professional titles under Article 4 of this Act, in accordance with international guidelines and requirements for professional training and with this law. They're a complete match of these ingenuities. It educates the Board for the conduct of the examinations referred to in Article 6 of this Act, prescribes conditions for obtaining, extending and withdrawing a licence for the work of authorised auditors for the performance of auditors’ affairs, etc. We predicted that this article was changed 54th and that it reads: "The chamber receives funds for work from membership fees, fees for the registration and submission of data from the registers it runs, donations, sponsorship, gifts and other sources, in accordance with the law. The chamber, with the consent of the ministry, determines the amount of membership fee, as well as the amount of registration fee and data from the register it runs." What were we going to say to these? We wanted to sort of relieve our draft budget and budget spending, so that the Chamber, if it has to exist in this form, is financed from these revenues that I have listed. I have an explanation for this amendment, an explanation that is mostly contained in the fact that my colleagues have repeated several times today for this speaker, that these professional associations that you and you have characterized as holding a monopoly in this area, simply these professional associations get space free to establish these associations according to the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Everything that is limited and bound by law is no longer independent, it is not on a voluntary basis, it is binding. In this case, you're doing a binding thing, or you want this chamber to be a semi-state organization. You see only part of that argument, so I'll fill it in. "Employments placed in the work of the chamber by the draft law, such as giving licences to authorised auditors, then monitoring the process of harmonisation of accounting and audit regulations, adopting a training programme for candidates, prescribing conditions for acquisition, extension and withdrawal of licences, nostration of professional titles, recognition of professional titles etc. According to the application of international standards and codes, such as everywhere in the world, professional and professional organisations, and not half-state organisations such as the Chamber, are performing." Here it turns out that the chamber is practically a business association, not an inconceivable professional association. This is the main reason why we Serbian radicals disagree with this bill in general and these amendments we wanted to improve as much as possible this text of this law, so that in this area all those who can be affected by such a bad law and also professionalise order and discipline in this area would be relieved. That is why I ask my fellow Members to accept our amendments and my amendment to article 54 of this law, in order to improve this legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27262	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milomir Minić submitted an amendment proposing that members from 55 to 59 be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Blagoja Krajinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what it looks like when a conflict of interest is made in the bill. Article 55 regulates the council of chambers and says immediately in the first position: "The Council is the executive body of the chamber. ''In Article 54, it was read behind this pay phone which is all the powers of the Assembly and which business should be dealt with by the chamber, etc. Now, the council consists of the president, the vice president, one representative of the ministry, one representative of the National Bank of Serbia, one representative of the Association of Banks of Serbia, one representative of the Securities Commission, one university professor and four authorised auditors employed in audit firms. Let's go in a row, one representative of the Ministry - executive power. Furthermore, one representative of the National Bank of Serbia -- again executive power. One representative of the Serbian Banks Association, you already have people close to you, although you have sold some banks, so you may have weakened that monopoly in that association, the owners have changed, but I'm sure there are people there who conduct politics for the account of the executive government. One representative of the Securities Commission, again the authority of the state administration, again the executive authority. One university professor and four authorised auditors employed by audit firms. He says further, the president and vice president are proposing members of the chamber from the chamber's ranks. So he says, for the president and vice-president of the council, a person who is a member of the political party and a official in terms of the law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions or the function of a union organisation cannot be elected. Look, here means that we have representatives of the Association of Banks, we have a representative of the NBS, so doesn't it define the contiguous frameworks, let's say, the way the accounts are accounted for and how to run the books for banks. Now, in this situation, it can directly affect the decisions of the chamber council. A representative of the Securities Commission, many of the reports to be submitted, especially when it comes to securities of value and the takeover of stock companies and where ownership relations are changed, etc., is again regulated by the Chamber. How does this mean that an independent, professional association has as a representative of one of the government's authorities again, so the executive authorities. For the President and Vice-President of the Council, a person who is a member of the political party cannot be elected. I don't believe that a representative of the ministry, especially the Ministry of Finance, could happen not to be a member of the political party. It may be funny to you, but here we have representatives of the ministry wearing the badges of certain political parties. So the NBS, the governor, the vice governors, are hardly able to be at these functions unless they are at the will of Mladjan Dinkic. A representative of the Association of Banks of Serbia, we have already seen Minister Dinkic do so. If some bank isn't willing to lose his license to work. One representative of the Securities Commission, we also saw how Miroljub Labus did it, was written the whole law just to change the commission. Authorised auditors employed in audit firms are likely to have to be at the will of the finance minister again. Take care of this, if the president and vice president can't be a member of a political organisation, then it's moral that none of those on this list of council members can be a member of a political party, or a functioner, or even less of a public office official. The finance minister agrees on the appointment of the president and vice-president of the council. If the council takes control of the finance ministry and the executive government, there is still Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic who will veto himself. The president and vice-president of the council are elected for a period of five years and the same persons cannot be re-elected to the post. There is, however, one restriction, but as long as the mandate of individuals extends to five years. What if that person simply, if there were already so much interference from the executive authority in this whole procedure, simply when the change of power came, would not have been replaced. Is it a wish that the parties that now form power, that the G17 plus that now participates in power, retain their personnel and at the loss of power. That doesn't look like it. Whenever a decision is made on the establishment of an agency, when the directors, the board of directors are appointed, etc., when the commissions are educated and we hear chambers now, the goal is to simply continue to be in office and to keep certain political parties, which have no support in the people and have failed to enter some new government of the Republic of Serbia, continue to rule in certain areas of public life. What are the responsibilities of the council? The Council shall draw up a proposal for statutes and other general acts adopted by the Assembly. So the statute is for one chamber, for one company, for one political party the same thing as the constitution for the Republic. Preparation of a proposal for a programme for the acquisition of professional titles under Article 4 of this Act in accordance with international guidelines and requirements for professional training, in accordance with this law. We can also see that she's talking about the monopoly, which is why this law is still being passed, just means now, let me say, she's going to abolish one monopoly and introduce another, which is likely to be even more drastic and larger. It proposes members of the Committee for the conduct of the examinations referred to in Article 6(1) of this Act. So members of the commission must also be politically alike. Probably those who pass the exam must be politically alike. We are witnesses when elections are organised even for the advice of local communities, if one director wants to keep his principal post, even for the advice of local communities, he must bring 20, 30, 40, 50 people who will vote publicly. That's how far it goes. It proposes conditions for obtaining, extending and withdrawing licences to authorised auditors to carry out audit operations of financial reports. So they also predict conditions for withdrawal of licenses. Does this mean that if someone simply has the opposite attitude, the opposite opinion, they can lose their license because of it? That's the way things are. This reminds me of the time of the one-party system when simply, just because someone else thinks, it could have ordered him to lose his right to do one job. It decides to register and delete members from the chamber's register, determines the procedures for monitoring the application of international standards of audit and code of ethics for professional accountants in audit firms, etc. So that's what determines and applies international standards for revision. Who's prescribing that? Who's the one who makes the recommendation to that chamber? Well, the International Federation of Accountants. You can't have an associate with her. You're training a chamber that's contrary to the statutes of the international Federation. So, everywhere you have executive power, it's funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which simply puts itself, as an independent organisation, aside. When you've made various commissions, various agencies, you're always in the laws of instructions that they're independent bodies, or professional bodies, so they're doing jobs that are entrusted with law, constitution, etc. Now you're going one step further, because a chamber like this will be necessary for you, so that you can do much easier to arrange the privatisation process for big business giants and thus degrade those same giants. What is written here reminds me of a house which dealt with the assessment of certain economic operators and I believe that this house and wrote the Privatisation Act, which former Minister Vlahovic of the Democratic Party proposed to this assembly, is "Tuš Diloit". '"It looks like this law was written by the same organization. However, the Business Messenger has now been involved, and he is essentially very close and "Tush Diloidu", we will see there is probably a Serbian Chamber of Commerce somewhere. When the MP, director of the Chamber of Commerce, wrote a law on the Chamber of Commerce, it is a real conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27264	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56. Proposal for a law on accounting and audit, which requires that Article 56 be deleted. Article 56 shall regulate the work, authority and composition of the Board of Supervisors of the Chamber of Authorised Auditors. It reads, "The Supervisory Board has five members. The Supervisory Board consists: the president, the vice president, one representative of the ministry and two representatives of the audit firm. The president and vice president are proposed by members of the Chamber Assembly, members of the chamber. For the chairman and vice-president of the Supervisory Board, a person who is a member of a political party and a official in the sense of a law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions or the function of a union organisation cannot be elected. The finance minister agrees on the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the Supervisory Board. The president and vice president are elected for a period of five years and the same persons cannot be re-elected to the post. The Supervisory Board shall carry out: 1) supervision of the legality of the work of the chamber; 2) review the annual work report and the financial report, as well as other acts of the chamber; (3) carry out other tasks under this law and the statutes of the chamber. ''The amendment to Article 56 proposes to delete a provision that regulates the work of the Supervisory Board. According to the SRS concept, the chamber statute should regulate the types of chamber bodies, powers and part-time work of the chamber authorities, as well as the composition and method of selecting members of the chamber organ. It is unacceptable for the law to restrict the election of the chairman and vice-president of the Supervisory Board because they are members of a party or union organisation. The 5th Minister of Finance also agrees on the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the Supervisory Board, which directly affects the composition and work of the Supervisory Board. The Chamber, and therefore the Supervisory Board, must be professional and professional associations, not branches of the Ministry of Finance. Since the law is not good, the law is not applicable, it is only applicable to Minister Dinkic, and I hope that in the day of voting my amendment will probably not be accepted, but I also assume that the law in general will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27266	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are near the end of the review of the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. At its mid-month session, the government considered, gave an opinion and, of course, rejected any amendments submitted by the SRS. In addition to each of the rejected amendments, she gave an opinion and a brief explanation, but given that, in this explanation for some of the amendments, it states that they do not have a foothold in other legal regulations, nor in accepted international practice, this way I would like to say that thanks to our presentations, defending these amendments, it has become clear why no proposal by the SRS parliamentary group has been accepted and will likely not be accepted. And we had an idea and motive and were giving amendments, all in order to regulate the chaotic state of the accounting and audit services market, but the Ministry of Finance did not accept our amendments. I'm saying this more for the Union of Accountants, more for the citizens of Serbia, who are still watching this transmission, regardless of how few we are. It may also be the same reason for contesting the alliance, its international importance, international obligations and rights, its professional efforts to pass clear and applicable legal regulations, so that everyone is responsible for what they do. That was our goal. The question is also raised why the Ministry of Finance does not want to co-operate with the Alliance and will not receive any advice or any proposals from the SRS parliamentary group, and even to answer at least one tenth and dozens of questions or suggestions from the Union of Accountants and Auditors to the Ministry of Finance, to receive them for a conversation, at least so much to be accepted. In a transparent process, with the participation of the most prominent experts, the Alliance has brought in all national professional regulations, translated and updated all international standards, and the minister, although repeatedly informed of this, has neither adopted nor published a solution in accordance with Article 20 of the applicable Accounting and Audit Act. Finally, I want, for the sake of your information, and other MPs who are not here, to point out that the Alliance has achieved enormous results in the education of accountants and the implementation of recognised standards in the process of harmonising with EU texts, which is of great importance in the development of accounting practices and professions. People's MPs, I'm sorry they're not here anymore, let's remember, there were more drafts of the law, getting worse than the worse proposals, which never came to life, so I don't think this law will see the light of day in practice either. Bad laws and unsettled by following regulations certainly meet some profitable goals, as my colleague Arsic had just said. If I were to say, some profitable goals, I could agree, Mr. Arsic, with you, that there is also the Business Advisor Action Society and just before what you listed, that this is about the personal interests of some persons associated with them, but not the harmonised accounting and accounting profession, and even less the taxpayers of Serbia, and at least our own thorny path towards the European Union. This law will not speed up this path to the European Union, I repeat, which you insist on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27268	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27269	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you are seen in article 57 what it looks like when someone is playing by the bill. So, Article 57 regulates the disciplinary commission of the chamber, which means that it is the authority of the chamber that exercises the powers laid down in the statutes and the rules on disciplinary procedure, with the implementation of disciplinary and other measures in accordance with this law. It is said that the disciplinary commission consists of three chamber members, one representative of the finance ministry and one representative of the justice ministry. Now in this whole story, you've reached one point. Let's say that the disciplinary commission is made up of three representatives from the auditor's office, but here you put three members of the Chamber. So, a member of the Chamber can be, by law, one from the finance ministry, so, in these three members, he can, that's already one. So one representative of the finance ministry doesn't have to be the same, that's the other. And the third is a representative of justice, so, of five, three can be from the executive authority. So, the executive power is in this situation, if such a law is brought to life, one that will conduct a disciplinary procedure and other powers established by the statute and regulation of a disciplinary procedure; that means executive power. Don't say it's impossible, because in law you didn't foresee those limitations. The executive authority is the one who will act as a judge in some disciplinary procedure against those led by the chamber. Who's he going to lead against? Most likely against those auditors, accountants, etc. who didn't want to embarrass the profession because of something. You know, there's been pressure even on the executive authorities for a long time. No one can convince me on the globe that the president of the Securities Commission wasn't pressured to sell "The Book", no one on this planet can convince me. The man was pressured to put that transaction out of effect. Pressure has been made for small shareholders to return to action, so that only someone close to the executive authority would finish the job and become the majority owner. Tomorrow, when audits are being carried out or when auditing the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, who will be doing those audits; the companies in charge of the audit, or you'll say foreign companies have to, so you can say that the party, here is Deloitte and Touche, there is next to the Serbian Parliament building. So you'll be able to influence the final account of any audit company that exists here. You will be able to conduct disciplinary proceedings against these companies if, in the process of reviewing the budget of the Republic of Serbia, spent by Bozidar Djelic, the one known as Boza Derikoz, and Mladjan Dinkic, do not give a passing assessment. Will such a report be considered by the congregation? Hardly. Such a report goes to the government first, so it comes from the Serbian Parliament government. Furthermore, it is the finance minister who will, by means of his act, determine which audit house will do the audit and final budget of the Republic of Serbia and the public enterprise budget, and do not pretend that it is not true, even has a circular letter to all public enterprises that are obliged to carry out that audit, and it is the minister who will determine the companies. So here is the executive authority that will be in a position to, under the threat of taking someone's license to work, force that auditory house to make a report on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and final accounts of public enterprises that correspond to the executive authority. If that's the story, it's not over yet, when it comes to the power mafia, what kind of report was made, and what kind of report was adopted. In a report conducted by those members of the Committee of Auditors, all these abuses are revealed in a fair manner. And in what way is it suggested to end? By hiring an auditory house to determine whether or not there was an abuse. It is likely that such an audit house is awaiting now, but first this law must come into force, that Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic do not respond, that the business of the Ministry of Energy and Mining is not put under proper review, that it is not known that Serbian citizens have been robbed by 450m euros. So when you pass one of these laws, so you determine who gets the licenses to work on the basis of the profession, and you determine what kind of reports he's going to write and audits to run, then you round up one continent that leads right to dictatorship. There is no independent, professional authority here to do its job on the basis of profession and profession, but exclusively a job for the Ministry of Finance, Mladjan Dinkic and those two bastards and thieves, Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27270	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The governments of the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27271	Article 59. The bill determines the source of the chamber's income, saying: "The chamber receives funds for work from membership contributions, fees for carrying out tests and issuing certificates, licences, registration fees and data from the register it keeps, donations, sponsorship, gifts and other sources, in accordance with the law." The following is said: "The funds for the start of the chamber's work can be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget." We'll come back to that part later. Item 3 is particularly interesting and says: "The Chamber, with the consent of the Ministry, determines the amount of the membership contribution, the fees for conducting the exams and issuing certificates and licences, as well as the amount of the registration fee and the provision of data from the registers it runs." Let's get back to Article 5. In Article 5. The bill states: "The passing of tests to obtain the professional title referred to in Article 4(1) of this Law is carried out under a programme that determines the chamber. The programme of the 1st member's position is given by the finance minister." National MP Vitomir Milosevic has submitted an amendment to this article, that Article 2 is amended and that it reads: "The programme set out in Article 1 gives consent to the ministry responsible for the management of financial affairs". The amendment was rejected, explaining: "These tasks cannot be done by the ministry, because it is an act brought by the head of the competent authority, in this case by the finance minister, who is the head of the Authority, i.e. the Ministry of Finance". And this proposal for a member of the 59th says, "The Chamber, with the consent of the ministry." What's the difference? So this is where the minister is responsible and you explain that it's an act brought by the head of the competent authority, and this isn't about an act brought by a manager, it's about an authority. When you write those laws, at least be consistent with yourself. So for the same attitude, which is in accordance with Article 59. Bill of laws, you refused the amendment. The member of the 59th is contrary to the 54th article, which reads: "The Minister of Finance gives consent to the election of the president of the Assembly". Article 59 also contradicts Article 55, which says, "The Finance Minister agrees on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Council". Article 59 also contradicts Article 56, which says, "The Minister of Finance agrees on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Supervisory Board". What's the matter with article 59? He didn't read it well, so he didn't tell you to fix it. It's just that a man wants to be above the law, above all else. If he can't seem to break it, then he'll ask the Assembly to give him that authority himself. That's the problem. Or is it just a problem here that the amendments were submitted by the MPs of the SRS? There are also constructive amendments here, i.e. they are all constructive and not written for the very obstruction of the bill itself. So we've also hired experts from this area, who helped us write these amendments, which give us guidance and instructions on how to conduct the discussions, because MPs can't all know each other. It wasn't about the profession, it wasn't about the profession, it was about passing one law. From my previous explanation, it is quite clear and why it is important to pass such a law - in order to put the audit business under the control of the executive authority and under the pretext of transparency. It's a foreign word, but well, it might be better if business, the way the government is clearer to the citizens. You call it transparency, then you hire some audit houses, which you're scaring at Article 57, because you can take away their work permit whenever you want, to get your final accounts audited properly, i.e. That someone who spent that money doesn't answer to the law tomorrow. It seems to be the sole purpose of writing this law. However, those who are in an extremely strange way a public company, such as the Business Messenger, privatised, is now a company, likely few of the few hundreds of thousands of euros in dividends they receive annually. They're going to expand their performance like this, they're going to have a few hundred maybe a couple of million, because I don't think this price list is going to be anything lower than it's worth. It will certainly be higher, especially if it does not correspond to the International Federation of Accountants, which nevertheless makes sure that its members do not exaggerate in their being, so that it, as an international organisation, does not lose authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-22-0.u27272	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the MPs. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
