ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27963	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. He has reported that he will be absent MP Ilic Borko. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of an important law on the founding of a news-issued institution "Brothership" You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in principle. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27964	Ladies and gentlemen, respected friends, the responsibility of politicians, responsibility to the public of all of us sitting here, but also in other important state places, is to create an atmosphere in Serbia. And yesterday's debate and debate from the other day, and what's going on here in the Republic Parliament, in public, doesn't have to be a direct cause, but it can create what happened in Luciani last night. Tonight, the president of the University of Luciani is in front of the apartment, broken legs and arms. I have to, and I'm taking this opportunity to say, of course, I hope and deeply believe that it won't go unexplained. I am deeply convinced, too, that nothing else can stand but political motives. Whatever the political difference is, I'm convinced that this congregation too has an obligation to condemn such an event and condemn such violence, wherever it may be, whether in this room or elsewhere, and especially when it's like this, with these consequences, as it was in Luciani last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27965	Thank you. The proposaler's representative is not here. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I would like to ask whether the President, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93, would like to hear it. Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The People's MP Alexander Vucic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all about "Brothership" that could never function as a profit enterprise, as a public enterprise that could only survive on the market in any other way, for the simple reason it always had to be touched by the state, that the state would worry about it. For those who do not know what it is, therefore, it is not about one newspaper, but about something that was a complete publishing activity, or most of the part of the publishing work in Bulgarian, so it is about "Brothers" and "Most" and "Others", if I am not mistaken, and I think it was just like that from songs for children to those basic educational concepts that our children, in accordance with the programme of the Republic of Serbia, and in Bulgarian language, could learn, learn, see, and today we see that, because of the decision of the Council of Ministers and the Government of Serbia, the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority will assume the rights, obligations, resources, employees and documentation, and in this way, will use the future National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority. I have to admit, it would be a good idea if we got the report, if anyone showed up to tell us what was wrong with the functioning and behavior of the Brethren. Unlike most of you, I have read and followed, and I have visited their main office in Nis, visited Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad, and I would just like to say that at one point it may have been abused in favour of the Milan Milutinovic campaign, if you remember, against Vojislav Seselj, but that there has never been a lot of politics, there have never been many texts that went to the interest of certain political parties, and in favour of some other parties. It would have been good if someone had told us what it was that bothered us with the current behavior of the editorial team and all those who worked on the publication of the List of Brothers, and the Bridge, and the "Druggarcet" and all the other lists. This is how you come before the MPs and read, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, no one knows anything about it, no one in the far line cares much. The important thing is that some paper came before the People's Messengers, and now they're going to adopt it, and they don't even know what they've adopted, how they've adopted it, what they're talking about. I would just like to show a lot more responsibility than has been shown so far and to discuss it in an incomparably more serious way. I heard that the National Assembly is criticised by various NGOs and by professional associations of Serbian journalists. Imagine those who call themselves independent, and are openly put aside by certain political parties and openly against some other political parties, thinking that this is normal, okay, that this is the most beautiful thing they can do for this country and this people. As far as the SRS is concerned, we would like that information in the languages of national minorities to be fully, that they have the right not only to one side of political action in Serbia, but to clearly and precisely in all languages, both in Bulgarian and in Slovak, Russian, Hungarian, Romanian, Ukrainian and many others that exist in northern Serbia, to allow these people to hear what everyone thinks, and not in certain socio-political workers give themselves the right to judge how, who, and how should be supported. In that sense, the state-of-the-art indignity is a statement by the editor of Serbia's information programme, I still call it that, and they are probably called Serbia's media public service. It should be a shame both Tijanic and this Stefanovic. This Stefanovic said in "Politice" – I didn't want proscration and primitiveism, I don't know whether Vojislav Seselj or who I don't know to publish. Wait, are you the director of the media public service of Serbia or the editor-in-chief, the editor of the information program? You're asking for money from these people, asking that all Serbian citizens pay you for it, to make it clear to the political side you're on. It's none of your business, master. It's your job to report to Serbian citizens about what's going on, not to lie, as you normally lie on your television, through your obedience reporters, or I don't know who. I'm interested in something else: who gave you the right to do politics here? Instead of saying - no, we don't interfere in politics, we don't deal with it, it's our job to objectively report everything that's going on. What is it about in this country? I can say that it's good that the editor of the information program, I have no idea what his name is, TV Pink, pleaded against the SRS, so that they know the citizens of Serbia whose side they're on, but they're private television. It's a good thing she showed that she loves politics, that she hates the SRS. I don't mind, it's her private problem and her television problem, what most Serbian citizens will think about that TV. I don't want to go back to how suddenly someone hates Serbian radicals, and they weren't contentious with some others, which I think is undeniable that they were, with DS and G17 plus, the worst in Serbia. I mean the ones from JUL. But the media public service of Serbia cannot be tolerated. Is this Serbia's media service, whether it's a public service or a self-proclaimed democratic bloc, where they can say what they want, invent what they want, and also to report to members of the national minorities, or in this way prepare for an election campaign, so it doesn't suit you by managing the fit, so you would now take some other people who will lead you in a better way, so you won't get any more votes in Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, Pirot and Nis. So, the SRS wants to point out only one thing that you should take care of, which is that members of the national minorities in Serbia should have the same legal status, but also a fundamentally equal status with representatives of the majority people in Serbia, in this case they are Serbs. Why would I think that? They don't need to see that there's only one side of the medal and then nothing else and no one else can talk to them and tell them what's really going on. Do you think it's possible to inform in which you will call a Serbian radical? Let me tell you what happened to me so it doesn't happen to you. I'm called the journalist of a media that is funded by Dragan Gilas, this thief from across the street, the one who boasts that he stole fivem euros on an annual basis and no one reacts, as it is understood that they are kidnapping fivem euros each. I was in The Hague visiting our President Vojislav Seselj. They call me, but I have patience, as a professional, to answer questions, and they say, is this about the magistrate, etc., what they've been saying five billion times, how and how you leased it, etc.? I'm trying to respond in a civilized way and I'm saying: people, all parties are available on equal terms, if you count it that way, then this thief DS took about 25.42m euros for a building in Krunska Street, if you count a lease on which she had no right, because it was once an Iraqi residence, and from the DIPOS fund exclusively, so it couldn't be rented, so illegally purchased, bought, etc. That's absolutely not a single word. So I killed myself by talking, and there's not a single word, completely falsified. I just want to tell people in Serbia, whatever it says, that they don't believe anything, absolutely nothing. They're all lying. I'm ready to go to the lie detector, whatever you want, to confirm that this is all true. Last time they said – some accounts etc. I'm saying -- well, three months, all right, I'm guilty, hang me for it on the terraces, etc. I'm saying I don't have five million euros, that at least I stole like this criminal Gilas. There's no sign of that in the paper either. Wait, are there any protected bears in this country, so you can't even tell them your name, or because they have so much money and control all the media, so no one can say anything? What's this about? Or there's only some people here who are allowed to come up and say things, to make up all kinds of nonsense, not to know what campaigns they're having every day. I don't think that makes any sense, but the citizens of Serbia need to know. Professionalism and objectivity, I fear, in this case too, you are imposing a synonym for obedience to anti-democracy parties, which you yourself have called democratic forces. We don't have anything against it either. It's only good for the citizens to know that. Is that what you want? We won't run from any kind of political struggle. Of course, we will never force ourselves to come to power, like you, to burn down congregations, to build television, not to lynch political opponents, like you're in front of a TV building or I don't know where else. So it doesn't occur to us that we're doing something like that without being conducted even a criminal procedure afterwards. They don't need any amnesty or pardon or anything else. That's what we're different about. Citizens of Serbia who love Serbia, who do not tolerate thieves and criminals and who love the SRS, and who have endured all the hajka and haranga, all sorts of campaigns, I thank you for your patience and for your great courage, and I advise them to show a little more patience. We are not afraid of these, nor of anyone else from the false democratic forces to our president, who is the most important task when and how he will get to the football game, since nothing else in life is working, nothing else in life is involved. Regardless of all that, we will defeat them and bring freedom to Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27967	Since no word has been reported, does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE SCHOOLED FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE TRUTH ABOUT NEW CHILDREN MURDERED IN MORE CITY IN SERBIA You have received that report, which was submitted by the Survey Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the report on the work of the Committee of Students to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, with a proposal for a measure. Does the representative of the Committee of Pollutants, the People's MP, Mr. Zivodarka Dacin, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27968	Dear Vice President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, but first and foremost respected parents, you who spoke to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, you who personally communicated with us, presented your problems and your documentation, you who did so in the mail, but also you who never spoke to you. For all of you, this committee of inquiry has done everything he could and what was in his jurisdiction. I also want to say to respected parents, you who believed in us MPs, but above all in the institution of the National Assembly, that at least she would open her door and make certain things move for the better, but also, respected parents and you who suspected that we would do anything. Today, I should have a feeling for this speaker, like all of you MPs, pleasures, above all we've had strength and endured to the end in this story of finding the truth about missing babies and saying that, on several occasions, the National Assembly has educated several committees of inquiry on various issues, but that this is the first report to be presented here before you. Of course, somewhere in my soul I am truly deeply unhappy and sad, and I can't say it today, because with us is not dear colleague Miroslav Nedeljkovic, MP of the SRS, who has really done everything he has done to ensure that this committee of inquiry with all of us persists and succeeds in the work. I think we owe on behalf of him who believed, like all of us who worked in front of all parliamentary parliamentary groups, to support this report and to really get off the dead end. Believe me, I have enough life, work experience, and I'd say political experience, and I've come to know and I've always wondered somewhere why there's so little honesty in life and why there's so little truth in political life. But, of course, as a great optimist, I always believe that the truth must come out eventually, so let this be the first attempt to know the truth about all the cases of parents who have come to us, but also to come to the truth on all the cases that have happened to us in the past, that are happening to us today, because in the truth alone we can find salvation and the truth can lead us to a better life. This is a very difficult story, emotional, sensible. It's hard to persist in the story and stay objective, try to see quite objectively everything we had in our hands and what really happened. It gave us hope that our parents realized that we were the most legislative body, that it was above all our task to look at what the obstacles were so far that actually made it impossible for parents to come to their truth. None of them asked us to look for a child they suspect died and none of them said they were expecting it. They expect the state to prove the truth, whatever it is. The truth isn't always the way we'd all want it to be. It's a tough story, because in 4-5 days, it's a year from the moment the Survey Committee was established. In fact, on the 20th of July of last year, and it is likely to be filled one year until the time when we should declare ourselves on the work of this polling committee in the voting day and that our measures should be further forwarded to those to whom due attention should be paid. We've had a lot of parents talking to us. If we wanted to bring all the paperwork here, trust me, this chair of the table behind my back, to make everything quite nice, it would cover everything and no one would see it, but that's not our goal. Parents have lost confidence in all institutions, and that's definitely one conclusion. On June 6th, I received a letter from a father in Belgrade that I would draw one sentence from, because it's actually the point of what these parents expect from us and what they expect from their country. He says in his letter, "Who in this country does he address to achieve justice, if such an institution exists? ". This must be something that is somewhere in the heads of all parents, and I would say to all citizens of Serbia, enforcing. Let's prove that we can do it and we can. We have, of course, millions of data that convinced us that really the constitution of this survey board is justified. No matter what our active work was, believe me, to this day I was getting letters, new evidence, new parents, new people, they were talking because they began to believe that we were going to send a message to our state authorities to hear them, hear them, try to get to the point of knowing their truth. I shall state only the most recent moment, which we really didn't have, and I believe that the members of the Survey will now hear this for the first time, one parent who was with me a few days ago because he was brought by our esteemed fellow MP, gave me the information where the first time from a medical facility was signed, said the child who passed away on November 24th, the same day the chapel was called at eight o'clock in the morning. The death toll was written, which is not common, was written the day of the funeral, that the child would be buried on December 7th 1979 and diagnosed. At the same time, everyone was looking for their records, and he brought me a certificate of death saying that the child had passed away at 9:00 p.m. Can we really consider this only an administrative error, and in self-initiative pursuits, I also have here a copy of the Public Communal Services Company that is certified paper, where it is said that the child with that last name is not buried, and here we have a date again. I'm sure a large number of parents wouldn't have gotten into this story, that just after a long series of years since all this happened, they haven't been practically stressed and involved in this story for a reason, doubting what it was like, what happened to their kids. Many have told us that they have accepted the fact, because it is simply life, that their children have passed away after giving birth at the Institute of Pregnants or whatever. However, when someone as a mother receives a seven - year - old invitation to enroll the same deceased child in the first grade of elementary school, I ask you how each of us in that situation would feel. If one of the parents after 32 years gets a call from the welfare center to come and give names to his twins, and he got black on white that they died 30 years ago and change years ago, how would each of you feel? If, in these searches through medical records, as a parent, with a health inspection you find information that a child who has a certificate of death with one day in medical books, and in the protocols that after three days regularly received a "BSZ" vaccine, how would you feel and can we all assume that it was just an administrative mistake? It's a hard story, it's a hard life for all these people, all these families, and that's why it's an obligation for all of us to do everything we can to make it possible for people to get to the truth. The Committee of Auditors has worked very seriously. You received a report saying that the 28 sessions were held for a total duration of 71 hours. These were official sessions, and believe me, with parents and all the people who could help us learn and learn the facts and the truth, we held a large number of meetings in the building of this congregation. We took the turn. We first held meetings with our parents, allowed us to hear their claims, and then, in turn, we recorded the whole way, where it began to happen, where it ended, or where there was never an end. The fact is that the largest number of these children that parents are looking for, to determine their truth whether they died or not, and under what circumstances they were buried or not, originates in a period of 20 years between the 1970s and the 1990s, but I also have to tell you that the oldest case comes from 1969, and later we got the information and one from 1959. Of course, I have to tell you that it happened after the 1990s, and the latest data we have, fortunately, is in 2002 and 2003. These parents were on the thresholds of all state institutions, including these. In the last session when I was chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I first officially met 104 parents from a group of signatories. Of course I knew then that there was nothing we could do to help them, that they had to knock on the door of other state institutions. They individually went into that fight and what hurt them most, the general impression is that they didn't actually come to an understanding. So here today, five years later, this congregation, this congregation has respected these parents ’ problems, and we want to enable each one of them to come legally to their own truth. We started with a medical facility, where you saw a string of failures were found. We talked first and foremost with representatives of all health institutions, and we were trying to cover the whole of Serbia, because at the beginning of the story and when the parents started to come to us, it seemed to us that it only happened in large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and then other parents joined later, and we saw that, unfortunately, in some years, it was a wave that this state needed to answer why and whether it was happening. We spoke to representatives of health institutions, health inspectors, the Ministry of Health, eventually and with the minister, because logically this is where it all begins. I have to tell you, both by parenting and by our knowledge, the most they've done. They went out on their own when parents asked for the Health Department's inspection and to come out together to review that file. They've done it, they've even realized all this and a lot more, a lot of things I've been telling you about. Of course, there was this problem that consisted of it, even our question of the chief of inspection, the Ministry of Health and other inspectors from Serbia's field, we said: well, you realized there was a mistake, what could be done further, what sanctions could be possible if such a mistake was identified? The answer was, and that's what the law says, I quote: "A person like that can be prosecuted, by limiting the time limit for its launch to a period of up to one year, and then becoming obsolete." So there was nothing objective, legal, no response, no results and no reaction except what the Health Ministry's inspection did. Of course, after that, we talked to the people in the home service, and we also found that there were a number of irregularities, even though it was all brought back to administrative error. But somewhere in our memory, knowing that it's impossible for one parent to ask within a month, two or three, three or five times for a copy of the birth and death birth certificate, each time it gets more or less than one piece of information that he didn't have in the first copy. Look, it's just impossible, and that's why we told her and we realized that we should actually have inspections from the competent ministry that they belong to, for the administration and local self-government, a little combing, evaluate, see how it's done and, of course, that absolutely every mistake has to be sanctioned. A positive impression in this whole story, where people have never encountered an obstacle to getting the right information, is the Public Communal Company of Cemetery Services. Parents, wherever they were speaking, in Belgrade or any other city, they were all given proper documentation that the child had not been buried with that name. So they've been stalled everywhere, even in getting medical records. They talked everywhere – once there was, once there was, once the medical documentation was submerged in floods, once the rats ate, so it was fatal for the Serbian people in 1999, bombing, emigration, so it wasn't stored in the historical archive, there are millions of different data, but these people had very neat documentation and each of these parents got the answer. Of course we were wondering and looking for an answer to what happened to children who were in the same period, in the same month, at the same place died, and parents weren't in this story where they wanted to know the truth about what happened to their children. If they died, all right, where are they buried? If they're not, what about those kids? So, the children who really died, whose parents know they died, have data for them at the Public Communal Company "The Cemetery Services" there. So there's still one question left, and there's no answer. I think as a state, we really owe it to give that answer at the same time, and what I mean is it's very important, it's said: we've been stressed by the responsible people who came to a public conversation with us that it's impossible to perform a face funeral without being seduced by permanent documentation in an adequate way. So, no matter what, it's being kept permanently and everything can still be checked. Of course we talked and analyzed what kind of adoption process it was, we talked to the representatives of the Social Labour Centre, and we saw that there was a huge difference which is partly certain, because it was the period that existed in the period until we adopted this family law and where it was practically given to subjective evaluation and identification of local centres for social work, which are the least limits when a child can be adopted. Somewhere we were getting information that the baby had to be at least eight months old, about six, and we were getting information from parents that they had knowledge, with a specific name and last name, that some babies were adopted and directly from the maternity ward, or children's wards, which absolutely shouldn't happen. Then, what was most expected, where there were most comments, was actually when we spoke to representatives of the MUP and the D.A. and when we definitely came to the conclusion that there was a complete blockade of the MUP and the D.A.'s office. Somewhere we were deeply convinced that the people in front of the MUP were not the happiest and most subtle ones chosen in that professional, professional sense, because they were practically people who worked in the Department of Economic Crime, and we all know that their task was to re-examination all these health institutions, to re-examine all that documentation, and to find out that she was inspecting the Ministry of Health, and that they were finally individualizing and parents. When we asked them why they didn't continue doing some research, they said they thought the collected data was enough, and the public prosecutors didn't give them further orders. The answer was that anyone from the D.A. asked for additional research, of course they would, and we're sure it would be. The thing that hurt the most about all of this is the procedure in the prosecutions regarding the criminal proceedings. I have to say here that, personally, over many years, I have tried to amend the Criminal Law for amendments, because in our Criminal Law today, it says that only genocide and war crimes never go out of date. And can motherhood go out of date, I ask you? Does anyone, because there's no cover in Criminal Law, have the right to seek out their child suspected of deceased? For many arguments and for a reason on the one hand, and on the other hand, I would say that the prosecution is bound to come to the truth and tell the parent whatever she is. Because look, here I told you at first that we had between 250, now and 300, because I say we're still getting, the objects and the data of the parents they were collecting. However, the D.A. told us that they had received, I quote, so that's the data they gave us - 764 applications, that 539 applications were rejected, of which 383 for obsolescence and 147 for other reasons. So basically, these 383 have no one opened or analyzed, but simply, when I see what year that subject comes from, it's immediately ad act because it's out of date and there's nothing to open objects, analyze, to give orders to the MUP to verify these data, even if it's all wrong, but I think it's an obligation to verify the truthfulness of the data. There was one interesting thing, which I really want to say in public here, and that we, the MPs, the members of the Survey Committee, didn't get an answer, even though we don't think it's anything that should be a secret. In all these years precisely because of this stalemate blockade in Criminal Law, the Republic Public Prosecutor was in the years when they were in 2002, so in 2003, etc., who organised by parents, who self-initiatedly went into the story, sent the lower prosecutors two instructions. One comes from April 8, 2003, and the other from November 1, 2004, so almost a year and a half later. The instructions differ greatly, they are totally contradictory, as the first, since 8 April 2003, allows for the conduct of criminal acts for which absolute obsolescence has taken place. So somewhere around here, it seemed that the state had heard and that it really wanted to clarify this story, that after a year and a half in the second hand, that possibility was not even mentioned, and then it was called to the existing Criminal Law. We asked why it was given the first time, let's say that this is the second time in accordance with the law. We didn't get the answer. Of course, we also talked to professional people doing DNA tests, because we said that DNA analysis is the only key evidence of origin and connection between parents and babies. When parents were looking for these famous paraffin molds that were talked about in public, some weren't allowed to get it, and some were getting it. When they did those DNA tests, it was found that no DNA could be done, because the chain was broken and, of course, the parents suspected it was just a broken chain or something else, because it would be practically evidence that the paraffin mold that was done by the autopsy of the deceased child corresponds to the DNA of the mother and father's parents. And then of course, not really wanting to be subjective in any way in the story, we found out and met the following. First and foremost, DNA analysis is something that is a newer date in medicine and can really only be used as evidence of a relationship between a child and a parent. But it was first done in 1995, with us in 1996, and since these cases, these paraffin molds that are somewhere in health institutions and found, come from the 1970s and later, so they really couldn't have been followed as permanent preparations from which DNA could be made today. And of course, this is a big story and I could give you a lot more details, but what we definitely noticed as very symptomatic, and if it wasn't practically implemented or legally, it's that the child is definitely losing track of the health care facility and the funeral home. Of course, we suggested that there should be a record for all newborns who are not wanted by parents, and they died those years, but that there should be records of all those newborns who are reportedly deceased from medical institutions, for whom parents are searching and are not there. With all these measures and conclusions that we have come to, we have also proposed some measures that I am quite sure this assembly will vote on. First of all, 1) must deblock the work of the MUP, the Prosecutor's Office and courts; 2) The Committee proposes that the interior minister of the Republic of Serbia educate a specialised unit composed of experts dealing with blood crimes, organised crime and human trafficking, which would be directly responsible for the minister and has the mandate to work at the level of the Republic of Serbia. This unit would have been tasked with investigating in detail all cases related to parental suspicions, that their newborn children had disappeared from maternity care. Of course, we, as the Committee of Auditors, are at our disposal and are prepared to provide all the documentation we received from our parents, so that we can proceed with the conduct of these cases. But I also want to make it public here today that all parents are ready to cooperate, because it's in everyone's best interest to get to their truth. Of course, no measures would be proposed if they weren't given some deadlines, at which time something should be done. The interior minister should submit within three months of the adoption of this report to the National Assembly Security Committee on Labour and Knowledge that the MUP has come up with. Of course, we have made a commitment that we, members of the Committee, are present to that committee, because simply, believe us for a word, we are the people who have entered this story to the end and we will be able to react, let us see, comment on what they have done and done. The Committee suggests that all missing children's criminal charges be handled by a special prosecutor and a special court established to fight organised crime. Someone has to open this story. We even suggested that the Assembly organise a body that would be composed of expert representatives of all parliamentary groups, to analyse and clear all these laws and to find opportunities, in a legitimate way, to process all these items backwards. On the other hand, if there was a deblockation, these people wouldn't have to make a proposal to amend and supplement the current laws, because I'm quite sure that since this polling committee was established, there's no chance that something like this would happen again. That's good for the future, but what about the past? We need to get this straight, because if it's not a clean past, we can't even have a clean future. During the study committee's work, you all voted for amendments that I, as chairman of the Survey Committee, submitted, which was precisely the result of the story that I was in, where we were able to change some things in the area of the Health Protection Act. Why? Because a large number of parents received some strange story and that story is identical in 99% of cases, that children who died were not seen by their mother, nor by their father, that they usually received instructions that it was not good to see them because it would be stress, trauma, that young parents, tomorrow they would have more children, that they would not bury them, but that they would do so by a health care institution, and then one information where we asked openly: do you have any account that the health care institution paid for the funeral of those children, the answer was negative. So that there may be no doubt that there is no possibility that potentially this kind of thing can happen, regardless of the tragic outcome, which absolutely no one wants to see such a thing happen with a child after childbirth, it is now by law the obligation of a health care institution to identify their child and take over the funeral. One more thing, there's going to be a lot of catching up to do. At this point, I thought I'd tell you something. We have a case where parents didn't bury their child, but it was done at the expense of a health care facility or whoever did it, and in doing so, when they dug themselves to get to the file and to the paper, say at the Health Insurance Office, they came up with information that someone was raising funeral costs, don't hold me to the word, 20, 30 or 40 days before the child is born. The question arises – who did it? How someone knew that a woman carrying a baby would have such a tragic outcome after childbirth, not to say that we also encountered a series of abuses that were indirectly related to this story. Of course, we insisted that the Health Care Act be followed until the end of the procedure, that a tissue sample should be required for technologically adjusted DNA analysis. In addition, the Committee requests that the adoption of the DNA register law be speeded up and ended within 90 days of the date of adoption of the report. We are here, even heard from Mr Stojkovic's Justice Minister, who was our talker at a public conversation at the Committee of Auditors, that this is in preparation. We realized that it had just entered the procedure, and here, it's been a long time, and we expect that in the next period at least to respect the measure we've said here, and that we're going to have the next 90 days of adoption, because that would somehow be the solution. It's a big, heavy story, and I'm sure I'd be ready 24 hours to talk about it, and I certainly wouldn't say much. But at the same time, I want to thank all the MPs and all the media for not having any moment been abused by this story, not human or political, and that's very good, because it proves that we are all, first of all, humanists and politicians, and I would like to keep it that way. We all have a great responsibility, first of all to adopt the report, and then the executive and judicial authorities will open up all cases and give the conclusion, end of the case, the truth in the case, and then these parents, and I believe all of us, will find peace somewhere. I really invite you all to vote on this report in the voting day and to really take these proposed measures after the Serbian Parliament adopts it, of course, that it is binding on all those to whom we have defined these measures. I ask all MPs, I ask MPs who, perhaps in the day of voting, which I respect, will not vote in favour of the laws that the Government has proposed, to enter the Assembly and vote in favour of this survey committee's report. I also ask those MPs who have decided for political reasons not to participate in the work of the Assembly and do not attend the meetings, to come and vote for the adoption of this report, because this is not politics, this is life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27969	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, it's particularly hard for me to say anything about this, because I know little about it, even though I once received a delegation of desperate and sad parents, people who think their children were either kidnapped or murdered, that they don't know when, how and where they were buried, or that they don't even know what really happened to them. I find it difficult because he knew everything about it and talked about everything, in every place and not maximum, but after everything that happened to him, if possible, so as not to make a linguistic mistake, and more than that hired SRS MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. He fought against injustice, fought both thieves and criminals. Unfortunately, his heart betrayed him because so much injustice, so many thieves and criminals couldn't stand. I don't want to abuse anything in any way, because this is a subject where no one should get or lose political points. I'll point to only one thing, which is that parents are not satisfied with this, that they're looking for concrete measures and concrete action. Would it be possible to do something else, I don't know. I have some questions, and that's why I said I wouldn't say anything to the team specifically, but I have some questions, some things are very strange, and the report itself is listed as very strange, but without any sanctions, without any proposal. It says here that 764 criminal charges were filed, that 539 were rejected, and 383 were rejected for obsolescence. Now look at the logic of self-proclaimed democratic forces in this country. You, Mr. Mihailovic, as an honorable man, can also punish me, according to this Tanja Jordovic, with 10 to 20,000 euros, as she says she would punish, so here you are, punish me if I make a mistake in something. So, we have a law, popularly called, on lustration, a law that, to make it clear to citizens, is being persecuted by those who have not broken any laws, which refers to a period longer than 30 years. So we're going to chase people who are bothering us, who we can't beat, because they're better, smarter, prettier, fairer, whatever you want, than they are. We're going to go after them because our commission is going to decide that even though they haven't broken the law, none of them, and we can't do anything about it, so we're going to act strictly in accordance with the law, we're going to take them out of public life, we're going to bring them different prohibitions, and, at the same time, when someone kidnaps a child, when someone hides the truth about his child, it's out of date after a year, two, five, six or ten, depending on what crime it is. Is it the one in the process of running the parent's books, is it the one in the funeral services, or is it the one in a particular hospital? Until recently, until we had changes to the Criminal Code, it could have been a year ago, he can no longer answer for it. That is why they will respond in your system, in the system of thieving and crime, in the system through which you think thieves can manage this Serbia and act as if they are the best part of Serbia, because they have media to support them, media whose chief editors say the opposition should be punished with 10, 20,000 euros. Only the government should exist, only the regime should exist. The only opposition party should not exist, only the regime should exist. That's why there's no justice for children and parents. That's why parents don't have anyone to say who's gonna answer. The report said, "Internal Affairs officials did not carry out pre-examination actions until the end, because they considered the collected data sufficient and the public prosecutors did not give them further orders." Of course not. What do they care, when they're placed on the party line, and there's no party interest, there's no regulatory interest, they can't prosecute political opponents. Children – what do some of them care? I can't say everything, of course, especially to officers who are responsible and honorably doing the job. Public prosecutors, most, honor to those who are not, to see which party will be next, who will set me up, until I can be there, what can I do against their political opponents and nothing else. We have nothing more important than our children. We don't have any more important topics in Serbia than this. What are the measures? He says, a proposal for a measure: "The deblockation of the work of the MUP, the prosecution and the courts must be carried out." Do you people here every day convince us that it works like a Swiss watch, that it's never worked better? Every day you convince us of that. Now they're gonna make special forces, and I don't know what the whole thing is, so the special prosecutor is gonna lead, and I don't know what. What was rejected because of obsolescence was rejected and nothing was rejected. I would like to specify precisely whose responsibility it is, to speak clearly of those who belong to that part. I'm going to speak plainly, because it's not about small money and it's not about being crazy or being arrogant, ossion or reckless. That's because someone belongs to the mob. You know what the mob's like and what they've been doing with our kids for years and decades. Someone has to expose the mob, point out who the members of that mob are, show that the state won't protect them, in accordance with these last measures that you've cited to be needed, but it needs to be clearly, precisely, the name and the last name spoken of. In that hospital and that hospital, he covered it up in that way and that way. There can't be data on the birth and death of a child without any data on the funeral, or that there's data on the funeral in one place, in the home books that there's no data on the funeral, on the funeral services, on those who buried the child. Let's ask, who are they that are calling someone to ask if the child is enrolled in school, since primary education is mandatory in Serbia? Who are they who called them? How is no record kept like that? Let's see if it's them or the others. Someone has to be responsible for that. That's what we think. Otherwise, I don't think this is a question of any political organisation, for any political party. These are the hardest questions. When you talk to these people, you don't know what to tell them. I didn't know at some point what to tell them, except that we're going to be looking for a survey board, working on as much as possible. I don't know what to say to a man who loses a child in this way and doesn't know where his grave is or anything else. I don't know what to tell him. There is no more difficult thing in life that can happen to someone. Nothing compared to that, absolutely nothing. These people have ruined their lives. It is ours to allow as far as possible that, if there is a chance, they return to life with justice that would be satisfied and that never happens again. It's good if it hasn't happened since 2003 in Serbia, but what happened in this way has to come out in the open and it has to show who the culprits are, who the responsible persons are, and without any dawn, without any scruples because they committed the most serious crime. A crime against children, against their parents, a crime against our country and against our people is the worst thing that can happen somewhere and what someone can do. Think again about what obsolescence is, and for what obsolescence does not exist. All I know is that the citizens of Serbia see it well, they know well, they appreciate it, and these citizens who have experienced this tragedy, who have been through this kind of disaster and this kind of hell on earth, I hope that they will get some kind of satisfaction and that we will take incomparably more concrete, stronger and significant measures as a state, not wanting to criticize people who have obviously worked seriously and hard on the Joint Committee themselves than we have taken as measures so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27971	The word is made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27972	Article 104 has been injured. In the previous assembly, I had the opportunity to talk to the parents of children who accused the white mob, so they say their children were kidnapped. Indeed, what is the subject of this report has already been updated. My predecessor, as a man of strong tongue, often a curvy one, tends to harass the public. He said in the introduction of his exposure that someone was killing those children. None of the parents were accused. It's about public harassment. No one's charging that "white mob" with doing it. The burdens are only for irresponsible behavior and for allegedly kidnapping. It's the subject of this report. It's not about killing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27973	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27974	Everyone chooses the way they turn to someone. Maybe my tongue is support, maybe ragged, you said it well, maybe I couldn't say it that way. I didn't say that it happened that someone killed a child, but I was talking about not knowing what happened and listed a few alternative things that were possible, either. Do you have any evidence of what happened to those kids? If someone took it, kidnapped it, then sold it, killed the kid, it still happened or anything else. What kind of public harassment is this? What are you talking about? About whether the child was sold or something else happened with the child, so it's easier now, so he's much better off. Now that's why you came out, like I said, I don't know what the hell is going on either. I said what was scary. There's nothing worse than having someone take your kid and resell somewhere and make money on it. Worse than this. If you can even compare it, you don't know what's worse, disaster. I couldn't believe it when people came to talk. I couldn't believe that it was so possible to run the parent's books, that such a procedure was possible in hospitals, as well as such funeral services to be carried out, etc. Obviously, anything is possible and therefore those involved in mafia affairs should be brought to justice. I haven't found myself at all caught up in something that would be false or public harassment or I don't know what. Don't just let people in power talk to us about public harassment, the ones that every day, if you watch RTS, you'll think we live somewhere between Zurich and Bern, and we'll stop by Geneva a little bit. Flowers, the sun shines, only the radicals don't work, only the ones in Serbia are not good. It's terrible what these people are like, and the government that's not good for us, all of you, it's a nice one, their mother, they're kissed by Serbia under them, honest, honorable, well-being, roads are built, spaceships in downtown Belgrade. The fact that someone earns five million euros as a thief, Gilas, is as pure as the sun, and if Vucic had earned $50,000, he would have gone to jail, hang him here or there, and Toma Nikolic 15 euros if he had earned it would have been the same. Since he's five million euros, then he's successful and that's the way it is. There's no public harassment. The public is harassing the regime and the regime media, and this is obviously most of the media in Serbia. Just let them do their job, and Public Service above all, but also those others who swear on objectivity, professionalism, and private media, have made it clear how and how much they hate the SRS, i.e. Their leaders. Let them keep doing it. We will not disturb the public, but we will tell the public the truth, as we have spoken so far. We'll never give up the truth and we'll win with the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27975	The word is made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27976	Once again, let's establish the state of things. You're right to interpret and speculate, but it's simply not the subject of the report. Once again confirm whether any of your parents have given you any suspicion that their child was murdered. You're saying it's possible that it was kidnapped, so later that kidnapper was killing. Spare us your fairy tales more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27977	The word has been issued by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, deputy president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27978	Dear fellow MPs, the importance of today's issue for all of us and for all of Serbia is undeniable. In addition to all the important laws we discuss daily, we are aware that they all have only one purpose and that there is only one significant thing behind them all, and that is man, individual, his personal happiness. There's something more important than that, and that's the father of a man, as Freud used to say, children. This is a very difficult thing, because it's not about children, but unfortunately, it's often about children's deaths. When you face such things you have a need, which is that you don't think about it, to reject it and say that something like that is almost impossible. I was very reluctant to accept the responsibility of being a member of the Committee of Auditors, knowing that it is personally very difficult for me, among other things, and because I have two children and I think it is really difficult for every man in Serbia. It's particularly hard to deal with it, because as I said, if there's any doubt that someone manipulated children, if there's any doubt that children are abducted from their parents, then it's really your first human reaction to dismiss such a monstrous crime as a possibility. The Committee of Auditors did not have that privilege, we could not reject it as a possibility, but rather, we were aware of our responsibility to take this issue very seriously. There is another extreme, which is that because of your strong emotional involvement, you go to another extreme, and you also don't contribute in the best way to solving this problem. The third, of course, exists here in the Assembly, is that the problem should be politicized. I'm sure every member of the Bureau is having a hard time finding that opportunity, and I'd like to ask you to avoid it to the fullest extent. What motivated us to do, among other things, was the fact that we all worked together, that this was the first Survey Committee where all the issues discussed, so here and at all in the Serbian Parliament, that there was no difference between us in the way we were going to work, in the course of our work, in the conclusions we had made and in the measures that we proposed. So we all signed this. With all due respect, I would like to mention the work of my colleague Nedeljkovic, who, unfortunately, cannot talk about our work today, so I would like to mention the contribution he made to our work, very constructive remarks, serious work and a large number of conclusions and a proposal for the measures that he proposed. This report has been signed by all but the party's representative who has left parliament and I regret that this signature is missing as well. We had one dilemma at the beginning due to the emotional involvement I was talking about, and the dilemma was whether to take several examples from all over Serbia, examine them to the end and show that there was or was no baby theft in Serbia. It was a trap where we all fought back after a few of our conversations and meetings, because from the very beginning it was clear to us that we were not in charge, that we were neither the prosecution nor the M.E.P., nor the court, and that we were practically unable to do this job and we can't do it well. What it was was our job, our task, is to examine in some way the work of all these services, to examine the work of the executive authorities, to see if there are opportunities to change it and, of course, if there are legal possibilities that led to the blockade in the research, and the parents conducted, to remove these legal possibilities as soon as possible. It's hard, as counterpart Dacin said, to talk about the pleasure in this work, but if there is, then it's a fact, and I think our proposals are really such that they can do it. So, all that if they get your support. A lot of things my colleague Dacin said didn't need to repeat, but I'm going to say one more time, so we followed the path of the children who were born and unfortunately, according to the doctors, died, that at least we talked to a large number of parents, and it's very difficult to satisfy each parent, it's actually impossible to satisfy any of them, because they don't have their children who are born. We tried to talk to a large number of representatives, we talked to health services, we talked to health inspectors, social services centres, funeral services, prosecutors, DNA-based institutes, we talked to M.O.P. representatives, parent services, almost anyone who could play a role in that chain. In the end, we talked to those in charge of monitoring the work of all these services, which are ministers. Of the three ministries, two responded to the polling committee's call and I hope that regardless, all ministers will make a full contribution after the National Assembly's decision. What was in common in these cases? It was common disrespect or lack of clearly defined procedures, it was common that children were most often born with extremely high Bulgarians, which is the assessment the child receives at birth, that mothers are separated from children, that children are often without knowledge or consent to mothers transferred to another institution, because they were needed according to the doctor’s findings. Mothers were often later informed of the sudden deterioration of their baby’s health and were suddenly also informed of the death of babies. Often other relatives didn't get that notice in time, there was no identification, moms weren't allowed to see their babies, supposedly really died babies. Most often there was no autopsy or when there were, then often the findings didn't match the manual diagnosis and it was clear that they didn't always have to match, but often these disagreements were such that according to doctors who worked with us, they were almost amazing. What's most important, and that's also colleague Dacin pointed out, there were no data on the burial of these children, there were no DNA samples, and for that we got explanations of what's most important, and which is why there was activation of the Committee's work, there was no epilogue, in no case at all. So, no court epilogues. As we could hear, there are 764 applications, 539 applications have been rejected, of which 383 due to obsolescence, and 147 for other reasons. What was also significant, as mentioned, is that there were two instructions from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, one that allowed all these cases to be investigated, regardless of the limitations and the other which practically prevented the investigation. Why is that, we did not get an answer to that question, because it is said that we do not have the right to answer that question. What happened to me during the whole work was something that I would single out as a special impression, that's the fact that the MUP was doing by investigating these cases by people who were involved in economic crime. In their own testimony, they spoke of the fact that they were in the paper business. So they were doing paperwork, not essentially dealing with the case itself. There are stenographic notes about it, so on the question, yes, their findings mostly spoke of there being no basis for prosecution. So, according to their findings, there were no objects, nothing that was suspicious and our layman's question – if a child was born, seduced in the birth certificate, there are deaths, and there are no data on the burial, there is simply no one, it is gone, as it is possible that it is not something that is suspicious, they have often responded that there are various ways to bury the newborn and so on. The funeral law is clear. Anyone born, registered in the maternity service of the born, must be buried in an adequate manner. It doesn't matter if it's a newborn who's old, two or three or a person who's 30, 50 or 70 years old. It's impossible there's no certificate of burial. That was certainly my dominant impression and the impression of the entire Survey Committee, and that's the point we've potentiated and we want it specifically explored. As your colleague told you, the records of municipal funeral institutions clearly state that the records are very well kept, accurate, accurate and that they exist in all other cases. I would also like to point out that I once again commend the Assembly for adopting amendments that now oblige healthcare institutions to perform the autopsy of every child who has died, to ensure the direct access of the mother or family member to the deceased body, and, of course, that access to the documentation has parents, closer relatives or other responsible persons. As far as the proposal was concerned, we were aware when we made this proposal a measure that was a sharp proposal, very demanding. We were wondering if our executive authority would respond adequately to our proposal. I absolutely can't agree that this isn't enough, because if you read it carefully, you can see that we were very restrictive, very sharp and very demanding compared to all the institutions in the entire chain when it comes to these cases. We have proposed the formation of a specialized unit at the level of the Republic. Why? Because, as we have told you, in all cities, not all, but in many Serbian cities, this has happened. Then simple jurisdiction had local units of the MUP that delegated responsibility to their economic crime inspectors, who worked the way we already said it was done, will mainly deal with paper. We were looking for a solution. What's the solution for the M.E.P. to start doing it really seriously? Our idea and our obligation was to make it possible for every case to be investigated to the end and that every parent who wants it would get their full truth. He can't get it from the Assembly, but he has to get an answer from the MUP, the prosecution and the court. He's got to get that answer. We've been looking for a solution. Our solution, our proposal for a solution, was a specialised unit at the level of the Republic that will deal with only these cases and where inspectors who are specially trained in blood-delicate, human trafficking, people who will really be able to deal with these problems seriously. We knew it wasn't enough just to suggest what to do without giving any deadlines. We've given you three months. The Home Secretary will be here within three months of the adoption of this report, let's say we adopt it in June, in September we would have to have a report here in the Assembly about what that unit did. You will agree that the deadline is not long, that it is very binding and that three months is something that implies the serious work of that specialised unit. The Survey Committee no longer exists with its report, but the Survey Committee has been all of you since the moment you adopt this report, we are all obliged to monitor how this will continue. Whether it's going to happen or not depends on us. Each of us who worked on the Committee of Auditors, no matter which party he belonged to, absolutely showed full readiness to no matter which minister he or she belonged to, invites every minister who doesn't meet what our assembly has committed him to. The Committee proposes that the special prosecutor and special court established to fight organised crime follow these reports. Why? Because so far, the actions have been conducted by prosecutors in cities, procedures have been running around, lastingly long, in the end they haven't received an epilogue. There was this vicious circle you were listening to, the M.P. found most often that there was no grounds for prosecution, the prosecution did not return to further investigation, because it felt so legal, that it was outdated, there was no reason to further investigate. There was simply one circle where the citizens, the parents couldn't get out. Believe me, the Survey Committee was hard to get out of that circle, because we really had to ask each and every single one of us what the problem was and how we could solve it. There's one problem that's hard to solve, and that's the problem of obsolescence. Lawyers say it's something to be respected. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we invite the Assembly to assist the Committee by adopting this report by making a full contribution to overcoming the problem of obsolescence. Here's what we suggested. The National Assembly, on a proposal from the President, shall, within 15 days of the date of adoption of this report, form a working group composed of Members of Parliament, representatives of all parliamentary groups and legal experts in the area of criminal, health, administrative and family law, which would establish amendments to the legal legislation which removes the obsolescence institute. Whether it is possible or not, let the MPs say, of course, fully respecting the views of criminal law experts. We believe that a solution can be found when there is a good will to find it and when there are people who are willing to seek that solution with full professional competence. So, this in my opinion may be the biggest problem and the biggest obstacle, but this is the obstacle that we can remove in the Serbian Parliament working together and if we adopt this report within 15 days that commission will be formed, the obsolescence institute can be resolved, the special unit will work. In a few months we can have an epilogue of the first cases, and they lasted from 20 to 30 years back, as you could hear. Do you consider it a good solution or not to be up to you to decide when you vote on this report? Whether it's a three-month shift to solve any cases or not, it's really up to each of us to decide. In addition to what we consider to be crucial, the fact is that it is crucial to introduce and control all institutions. This control was not good enough, administrative failures existed at all levels and we said so in our report and at the level of health services and maternity services, on almost all levels there were things that could be called failures, or at least they could be justified by a failure which is inadmissible. Whether or not it existed or not, we don't know exactly, but if there is a failure, it gives the parents and the citizens doubt that it may have been something more serious than a failure. So failures must be controlled and sanctioned. The inspection services must work more seriously, they must sanction unscheduled document keeping, they must enable access to documentation, remove any suspicion that the administration is in some way taking part in actions that are illegal. So these are our suggestions, this is the result of our very serious work. I would like to point out once again that it is the first Survey Committee to give its report, and I hope it will be a report that will be adopted unanimously, because I want to point out once again, it is really of the utmost importance for all of us who worked on the Survey Committee, and it was not recognizable to which party we belong. So, neither when talking to people who work in institutions nor when talking to ministers, nor when talking to each other, agreeing or proposing measures. We all respected each other, we all had only one idea and only one motive, that it was the Serbian Parliament that had to give the citizens a solution, to create legal certainty with citizens and that had to show people who couldn't deal with some problems in this country that they could solve these problems in their favour. And I really call upon you that, not as a party, I have not mentioned my party in a single word throughout this whole speech, I invite you to show as a Assembly that we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27979	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted two parliamentary groups: the DSS and the SRS. The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Paja Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27980	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, thinking about this report of the Committee of Auditors and about their participation in this survey committee, I just thought we slipped on the subject. At one point, referring to some other lustration laws, it will be related to some other people, and before us is an important topic that has plagued Serbia for decades. I don't think any kind of story like that is decent. It's not polite that we faced each other in our work, talked to dozens of parents, and each story was both very difficult and very special and painful. So dozens of parents spoke to the National Assembly. We got lots of material. The president of the Survey Committee, Mrs. Dacin, explained it very vividly. If that material were lined up on this table in front of the chairman, believe that the one thing you wouldn't see at all. Reading all these materials and seeing the gaps that were happening, I was a health care professional who had been working for nearly three decades and whose task was to take care of the health of the population was primarily one thing. So what was going on in health care, and what is the responsibility of healthcare professionals in all of this? To my surprise, I saw that there was a series of failures both in the management of medical records and in some other things that gave parents the right to express doubts. So people learned from these stories that it was very often a twin pregnancy, that it was often said that one child was perfectly fine and the other was in very difficult condition. But then there was an incredible twist. It happens that that child who was born was perfectly fine, dies, and that child who was born with some severe anomaly stays alive. Very often, the initial diagnosis, those found at birth, and the final diagnosis have absolutely nothing to do with it. On other things, about the failure of the administration, the irregularities of the delivery protocol, the irregularities of the history of maternity disease, the absence of the history of newborns, the crossing of these sheets, the split of these sheets, the correction of the date by the checker, as a healthcare worker, I was very concerned. About the loss of medical records, floods, the fact that medical documentation was eaten by mice or rats, that the paraffin molds were kept in the basements and that these paraffin molds were destroyed by rodents and thus were completely useless, so all these facts and all that knowledge were said that there was a very serious failure in the profession. I must say that the health inspector did her job and made these mistakes and imposed certain measures, in my matters the chief of health inspection was two key things: whether there was regular and extraordinary expert supervision. I got a positive answer. Obviously, even so, someone ignored these instructions, recommendations, and written things. So what's the problem? One part of the people over many years obviously did not respect the law. He didn't respect him because the sanctions weren't applied. If they had and had been held accountable, he would probably have acted differently and acted differently in his work. The object of our interest was the work of the MUP. So in that conversation with those people who were given orders to investigate these cases, they did that part the way their education allowed them to. But we were startled by the fact that a group of these people were involved in economic crime. We said -- you know, it's good that you're doing it, but this doesn't belong to economic crime. So things have to change because there is a suspicion that what is today and in the world is the subject of many countries' talks and co-operation. Could it be human trafficking, could it be human organ trafficking? So these people have to be specialized, trained and educated to deal with this kind of problem. The proposal for a measure adopted by the Committee of Auditors, I am confident, and all members of the Committee of Auditors are confident, will deliver results. The proposal for a measure is binding. I call on all MPs in the National Assembly to be heard in voting day, to accept the report of the Committee of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27981	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27982	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have before us a report from the Committee of Auditors, where you have seen from previous discussions that there has been the agreement of all the participants of this committee in the work and in the making of the conclusions that we have been offered here today. First, in a way to legitimize myself, I may not be the right person to speak objectively about all these problems, since I spent 30 years in the largest maternity facility in the Balkans, at the Institute of Gynaecology and Accumulation, where I participated in the arrival of a world of 50,000 people through life and professional circumstances. In my work, like all people, I've had light moments and mistakes and failures and I've never been inclined to talk much about it, but I wasn't inclined to deny such facts either. I know that the profession I belong to is doing an extremely difficult job, socially responsible and terribly stressful job. We pay it with our lives and it is to be explicitly determined. I would like to point out at the outset that this committee has worked extremely, to thank all the members of the Committee for the great effort and again for something that is very important, by finding this minimum of agreement on something that is an important social problem. But let me be allowed with a few critical remarks to try to give sight to someone who's on the other side, who's potentially accused, who might see things differently. For 30 years, I've been doing this job at the largest maternity facility in the Balkans, and I've never seen this intention before, and even less that there was this act. I'm not saying that the dishonest activities in society that had what we had, the economic sanctions, the war and the misery, were not and that there were no unconscious doctors who might, in individual cases, have not tried anything similar. What's good, what's said, what the Committee has avoided, running an investigation into cases, it's not competent and it shouldn't have been done. What I'm trying to say is, first of all, it seems to me that in the making of the conclusions, two of my main shortcomings happened, I'm not going to say "failing," because these are inadequacies and not out of bad intentions, but out of good intentions. What's this about? In fact, there were many conclusions, 14, and in these conclusions it was going to describe the situation, which should have been expected to be up to page 10, because it was all so specific. Let's say, when you see Article 5, he's quite extensive, conveying the story of his parents, but from a medical point of view he's incorrect. For example, it is said: it is very often suggested to parents that it is good that the baby died, because if it remained alive, it would have severe consequences for growth and development, and then it says: this is also what happens in cases where the child’s medical records are not seen whether the child was born with visible deformities or diseases that could endanger the development of the child. It wasn't necessary to go into such a wide story, because, let's say, there's AIDS, Suden Infant Death Syndrom, a sudden inexplicable death of a child, and that's the problem that our profession and pediatricians pay great attention to. There is an international association that deals with this, there are world conventions that deal with it. It's possible we can do that, but okay, let's let it go. In my opinion, the four conclusions are the only one in the whole story and which, when they're focused and in short form, are the key. The first undeniable conclusion is that the administration was not adequate in all the cases that were launched, with suspicion that there was a alienation of children from parents. This is in an unnecessary political debate, interpreting Mr. Vukic's words, which he says - they killed children. You know, when you take away a parent's child, you killed him. It's in a figurative sense absolutely clear. Now let's go on and explain to Mr. Cirkovic, who reads the newspaper carefully, that it may also be murder, because at the time we live, all democratic societies are fighting against human trafficking. Part of that trade is intended, unfortunately, not only for prostitution, but for human organs. Unfortunately, children who are kidnapped are believed to serve this wicked and terrible purpose as well. Therefore, Mr. Cirkovic, if parents suspect that someone has kidnapped their child, someone has done so, they are their opinions, in order to provide themselves with care for offspring that they cannot have, but unfortunately in many cases these children serve that terrible purpose. Unfortunately, it's also true that society won't talk about it. Or, let's say something else, that society doesn't have the guts to face it, because when it does, that's where the heads fly. It's known where other heads fly, and there's also a terrible head of someone who wants to light up some of this. So, this intervention of yours was absolutely inadequate, maybe you didn't have this knowledge, I guess that's possible, but let's just drop it. If the administration was concerned, then it was necessary to specify what the problem was with the administration, because it was inadequate, incorrectly guided or missing, it should have been said, or it was messy, and why it was so, to get an answer right away from here. Because we have inadequate medical records today, because doctors write hand-to-hand, reports, they're overloaded by administration, because there's no administration here in the modern European way. We have computers, but not the ones that were purchased by the state that was responsible for it, but that were obtained by the personal initiative of the doctors themselves. Here, from my life to tell you, over the last 30 years, we've been giving birth to 40 women a day, and after that, the next day, we've been doing our job normally, doing our jobs, going and operating. We've been overloaded, we've had low personal incomes for years, and we've worked without wrestling and without an elevated voice. In such conditions there are administrative errors, so you will have crossings, as well as the correction of some data. So the first problem is the administration and the conclusion is that it's inadequately guided, that it's unsatisfactory, that it's not stored in the right places. What should we say at the institute, when we had the floods and the destruction of the wall in the room where the history of the disease was delayed, some of which were permanent documents? What could we have done? Is that what the medical service is for? You'll say it is, that we didn't worry about it happening. Yes, we were worried, but there was no money to bring it into normal condition. There's not much going on right now. Six months ago at the Institute of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, several doctors specialize in medical suits, hats, and masks in the basement listed a classy history, to bring them into order. Today, in the 21st century, medical specialists do that, is that their job? In such times we live, and you should be aware of that when you talk about administrative mistakes. I don't justify them. I'll say how I think that should be regulated. The second conclusion is that the identification of deceased children and the funeral process was not adequately done in cases that caused parental suspicion. The third conclusion is incorrect treatment of parents when providing information, which existed in a number of cases. The fourth conclusion is that the MUP and courts do not solve cases and investigate lead the wrong way, giving people in charge of economic crime. These are the conclusions, what you described there, which should have been in the previous part where you took statements and gave facts. So the conclusions should be brief and clear. I've seen from this report that these are the conclusions. This process is being buried in an inadequate way, it's being subdued to you. You felt that as a problem, and you didn't solve it the right way. What's this about? In earlier years, and you say that from 1970 to 1990 there were most of these cases, the remains of these children were cremated. I'm surprised you didn't get that information. What's missing is the funeral's done, it's going here right now. We haven't even been regulated today on how to treat a child like that. Today we have to discuss the Regulation at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. It is said to be a rule on the disposal and destruction of biomedical waste. Be careful how ugly and disgusting the name, instead of saying: postmortem remains of newborn children. That's how we talk about these problems day and day. Another flaw, maybe it's the biggest and maybe it's an injustice, all 14 points you've written in a normal font, but point 12 you've embed. That point 12 is indeed the conclusion: "The Bureau considers that there is a blockade of the work of the MUP, the prosecution and the courts". Then, in the proposal, you said, number one, probably the strongest measure you propose: "The Anket board believes that the deblockation of the work of the MUP, the prosecution and the courts must be carried out." Turns out this problem is all about the prosecution, the M.O.P. and the courts. If you've made this kind of noise, it means you're distracting us, then you're making the most of this. Personally, I think it's wrong, that they're somewhere at the end of the chain of events that led to these accidents. Of course, I'll explain. What's very important is I think these 700 and some people who have reached out to a criminal lawsuit and who have sought justice in court, not being able to be satisfied with the answers given to them by the health care and the competent authority who handles this work, which is the Ministry of Health. You've dropped the major and key responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The implementation of laws and legality is responsible for the competent ministry, according to positive regulations. This ministry to its Rules of Procedures and Rules, which you have read, you have really worked very safely and you have handled a lot of things, so it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health that these cases do not happen, and not the MUP and the court. That the ministry found a breach of the rules, that there was a criminal liability, why didn't they report it to the court? If it is, then we can blame the M.O.P. and the judicial authorities for not doing the right thing. So primary responsibility is health care. Not to be too long, to come up with something that I think should be the conclusion. You gave them seven. They're all useful and they all have good intentions, but I'm afraid, as it is said at Dante, that all the paths that are paved by best wishes don't have to lead to heaven, they can lead to the other side, of course, not to hell. Why did Mr. Vukic say that he would not be satisfied with his parents, and what did we doctors, especially the accused, expect, would not just say on behalf of my parliamentary group, that there would be a proposal for the conclusion of the Survey Committee? Number one, we thought that what you suggested couldn't absolutely talk about the limitations of all these cases. If he doesn't even want the legislator and this parliament to break legal standards, and he says it's wrong, then he could follow two recommendations that this parliament should, in my opinion, adopt. Then the job would be done again in the best possible way. First, if the ministry were to establish an expert commission, let's say independent, I don't know which way it would be independent, but it could happen. We often use strangers, so-called. "experts" who here for fat money do something we don't see, and when we see it, then we often see that it's something that's not really in the interest of this country and this people. You have professional organisations and associations that should also be involved in this and that those in the first step examine each case and say what is not medically done properly and where there is a mistake. Then, in the second step, to justify the ministry's power to form a team of lawyers, an expert who needs each of these 700 cases to appreciate from a legal point of view and to say which failures were made. Of course, what you said was prevention, to say that you should do with legal regulations to be adequate, what should be added as some final advice. On that basis, the judiciary and the ministry can go and pursue. It's the right order of things, and only those three conclusions are, in my opinion, what pleases these people to come to some truth, and this with commissions, with a divorce problem, I don't think they'll be happy. Perhaps if we were to achieve this agreement to adopt all of this and if the legislator and the executive authority were willing to act on these orders and recommendations, some future generations would absolutely benefit. So, I'm not contesting any of what's been proposed for good intentions, but I'm just saying that these people who live and today in a nightmare because of all of this, they might be far more pleased that the Committee of Auditors has offered that it requires the competent health ministry to form an expert commission and, on each case, to state its opinion, whether or not there are medical failures. Of course you say, DNA typing in this case can be done on the basis of that and that and let it be done and done and done, and then that opinion be completed. Then a legal team at the Justice Department takes the case and says that you and you have failed from a legal point of view and, of course, after that, such a case, where there are elements for it, can be referred to the competent courts. This, if you wanted a special prosecutor's office, what do you need it for? These others are incapacitated, and what makes the Special Court more capable, based on what? If you think the special prosecution that judges criminals should judge this, then you don't trust the other courts of this system. I understand absolutely that there is no need to trust the judiciary either, and we doctors are branded that corruption only flourishes in the medical profession, because only in the Criminal Code is there talk of corruption in medicine. This company of hypocrisies does not know corruption in the judiciary, it does not know in other sectors, but it has prescribed that it will pursue doctors. So this way you don't achieve anything, the same people sit in courts, they don't have a way to raise a pedestal to trust them anymore because they have an attribute – Special Court. It's just plain throwing dust into your eyes and it's not solving problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27983	Replica, MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27984	Mr. Momchilov, I know you're loyal to your boss, and there was no need to convince me that I knew that before you left. So it's about the simplest thing and it's sad if it's politicized in such a delicate subject. If these babies died of natural causes and there is no record after that, there is no sin, it simply belongs to some Serbian wiseman, so we don't do anything. If these babies are kidnapped and then sold to families without children, there is sin, because they were simply taken from their parents. You're saying they might be tired after that. I don't believe that. I don't believe there's a Mengele in your branch. Mengele belongs to another culture, not ours. I'm absolutely sure, and I wish I was right that no baby was kidnapped to be tired. You don't have any proof of it, like I don't have any, but you're speculating that it's possible and now I don't know if you borrowed that status from your boss or loaned it to your boss. As far as loyalty is concerned, she was never disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27985	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27986	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. First of all, how can you even begin to resent me for not appreciating or esteeming someone, anyone, or even being Alexander Wolf? What makes you human and moral right to deny me the right to be, in your opinion, loyal. I'm loyal to myself and my family, for your information. Second, don't twist what you don't know. I've made it perfectly clear that I don't know any case that someone in my area from my colleagues who I've lived with for years and worked with and who I live with and who I do something so unfairly. Don't make it up. I made it clear to you that those parents who have been damaged have doubts that their children, unfortunately abroad, in Italy, have been organ donors somewhere. If you don't know that, it's your problem and your ignorance, but you are now conducting a political speech here, I can tell you – very prismly. Therefore, I am loyal to no one, nor to Mr. Wolfich. I highly appreciate Mr. Vukic and he is one of the prominent members of the SRS. What he says is normal that I support it, because it binds us to the same program, the same ideology. You be loyal to your ideological program, I'll never blame you, and it would never occur to me. So, please, when you say, to interpret exactly what I said and not to twist my words, they are quite clear and I think most citizens, including these unfortunate parents who seek justice in Serbia, understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27987	The word has been made by the National MP Živodarka Dacin, a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27988	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am truly pleased that you have realized how difficult this has been and how difficult this has been the problem, man-made, first of all, for all of us who have worked here. Again, I regret that, unfortunately, my colleague Miroslav Nedeljkovic is no longer among us and can say nothing, and I will not abuse anyone who cannot confirm that I am telling the truth. What is very important, which is that we were all absolutely unique, with complete consensus, for these conclusions and proposed measures, which we have and proven by our signatures at the end of the report. I think it's very important. We spent all the time working on the Committee of Auditors practically walking along the edges not wanting to side with either parents or their claims, nor advocating it as incorrect. We wanted and we did it, and today here in front of you, I can honestly say, let's be objective. So no one in this report has been charged. For three decades I worked in health care, the late colleague Nedeljkovic was an intern, a health man, counterpart Paja Momchilov, who had just discussed, no one was charged. It's been a little awkward for me, and that's what we've always said. We invited people based on data and some of the most common names that appeared in these parents' cases, simply to explain the procedure, from how books are kept from the moment a woman is due to have a baby enters the hospital, when she goes into maternity care, and so on. Only one doctor came in, because the sessions were open to the public, and he reacted very unpleasantly in terms of who accused him. We have strictly stuck to our intelligence, we have not investigated, we have not accused, nor is it our intelligence, but we want all of this to be examined to the end, and we know who in this country, as well as in any other, can do it. As far as the certificate is concerned, just to be clear about the funeral, since the years mentioned were between 1970 and 1990 and that a respected colleague of Momchilov said that he was then cremated. When I say funeral, we have confirmations from public utility companies that these children are not even cremated, because cremated are also kept in a book buried. It's a matter of choice now, I just didn't get into those details, but it's not bad to clarify, because of those who are surely listening and following us. As far as the Health Ministry's inspection is concerned, I'm quite sure that fellow Momchilov didn't come in from the very beginning when I was talking, and this report said, even according to the stories of parents who only said that people from the Health Ministry's inspection were coming out, and we asked, you were and confirmed that the claims of parents were correct and that everything they found there, and you found that too, nothing is better and more orderly. We have colleagues from all the health institutions that have come, confirmed, we have stenographic notes, if you're interested in reading, so that you get chilly, yes, so he says, it was corrected by the correction, so this happened, so that's what happened, but of course he can't, because all of this shows how much every spoken word obliges us. So, to our question of the Health Ministry's inspection, well, what you've done, how you sanctioned, because we simply think, until someone is sanctioned, we're such a people, that we have to do so. They answered us, I even quoted, and I want to say once again, today, when they enter a health care facility and when they come across something like that, when they're monitoring, of course they can initiate a misdemeanor procedure and we all know it from experience, they come to me in the service, and whatever it was, it's the first time that something needs to be removed, and then, if not, they're raising a misdemeanor case against a responsible person and, of course, whoever's at the head of the facility, but the deadline for the initiation of the infringement is limited to a period of up to a year, and after a year of age. Since they went and analyzed these cases five years ago, and back to 40 years ago, so basically, based on what they found to have happened in 1972 and 1973, they couldn't carry out a misdemeanor procedure, because we're simply in agreement. What I was about to say, since it was mentioned in the report, really, I was absolutely checking and I'm ready, no matter how much the report can't stand the amendment, because every correction and consideration is welcome, when it's said that an ugly expression, from which I've been creeped out, is that I found in some reports that the bodies of babies and children are referred to as pathoanatomic waste. No, we didn't write a report in that context, just for the sake of truth let me read you the whole part, based on a statement from the Public Communal Company "The Cemetery Services". When it comes to funerals, the Public Communal Company of the Cemetery Services considers there has been an irregularity before, as every content that reaches the cemetery has been buried, regardless of which it has not always been accompanied by adequate documentation. Due to these cases, a letter was sent to the medical institutions on 8 October 2002: the GAC, the National Front and the Institute of Neonatology, the Institute of Oncology, the Institute of Pathology, which expressed doubts about the contents of the bags containing the pathoanatomical waste, as well as the inadequate documentation accompanying it. In some cases, it was not exactly stated what was in those bags. It was suspected that there were syringes in there and anything else that belonged to dangerous waste, and all of us who do health care know what is meant by that. So, here's simply, I really want to correct, I don't say at all, we agree and I always believe that it can be better and more, but if we agree on that, and we are, that the only one who can do this today is the D.A. and the D.A., or the Court, then let us adopt this report, so that we can enable those who have a duty to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27989	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27990	Without the intention of questioning the work of the Committee of Auditors, I pray that my words that I speak for this speaker are not interpreted in any sense, that I question what the Committee of Auditors was doing, because he's worked long enough, he's done a lot of things, and he's found out a lot about his work. In the beginning, I must say that I am extremely glad that the members of the Committee of Auditors have found that Dr Nedeljkovic has made an appropriate contribution to lighting this topic. I'm sure it means a lot to his family and to us as strangers. Just to remind the public, Mr. Nedeljkovic was once the minister of child care and apparently with a lot of elana and a lot of strength he wanted to help resolve this issue in some way. Once again, I mention, without the intention of questioning the work of the Committee of Auditors and without intending to point out some differences that can be interpreted as taste, not just as a political attitude. At first, I would like to clarify some things again, not so much for MPs, as does this socio-political public who reports some times, since it is inclined to turn everything that has been said from this pay phone, and I am trying to make sure that I am always exacting my thoughts. This report shows that the Committee of Auditors was facing a major dilemma. How to comfort people who suspect that they are the kindest thing that God has given them, lost and whether they are right or without reason, but suspect that something wicked has happened, and these people cannot be resented for that suspicion. Because, at the very least, our overall biological survival and our life are about leaving those generations, preparing them for life, fulfilling our mission, and in this context, the role of mother is particularly important. Another dilemma, how to determine what's true. There are several aspects of truth here. The truth is being reported as a criminal notion that the Committee of Auditors must not talk about, because it is not an investigative body and it does not have mechanisms to come to the truth in a criminal and procedural sense of the word, what is formal truth, what is essential truth and what is the truth that resembles justice and justice. In that passage, it is clear that the Survey Committee went to moments and too wide, so it took so long to work. In order to be precise until the end, I would remind you only that the provisions of our Rules of Procedure are the regular work of the committees and committees and are said to be – the committee and committee are educated to carry out specific tasks by a decision on their education. So that's the mission. Next article: The National Assembly can educate from the ranks of MPs of the committee of inquiry, to look at the situation in a particular area and determine the facts of certain occurrences or events. So, looking at the situation and determining certain facts. If this is taken as a basis, and I draw your attention because on the first page of this report, the task of the Survey Committee is defined and it writes nicely in what way, and says: The main task of the Survey Committee is to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in the Republic of Serbia. Such a defined task, with limitations that it cannot look like an investigation, indicates that there is little chance of establishing the truth and what truth. In any case, the truth that would be found in the Committee's work is something that can't please parents, but it can't satisfy the public either. I'm saying this first of all because of the Survey Committee. I have no intention of disputing the work. I don't think they did anything wrong, but I want to leave a message to the public. The Survey Committee is not something that should be an excuse for the state to parents, nor is the Survey Committee something that should be an excuse for some individuals who have been in the competent authorities. He's not an excuse. He is simply faced with this problem of limited powers and opportunities to determine the truth. Right at the beginning, what truth? Today you have seven million, eight million truths in Serbia. Every newspaper has its own truth about a simple event. You've seen the truth in a stenogram these five or six days. So the problem with truth is a planetary problem. I'd like to draw attention to page three on the paragraph of what all the Survey Committee was doing and who he's invited to talk to. We have here a finding that the Republic Public Prosecutor has not arrived, as it says here, but it is said, in spite of a number of calls made by Dragan Jocic, the interior minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's written here. I now need to draw attention to the MPs and the public that Article 75 of our Rules of Procedure stipulates that representatives of state authorities and organisations, as well as citizens, are required to make true statements, data, IDs and notices in the work of the Committee of Auditors. So, if he's a state official, he can't be justified by someone being prevented, etc. I think we can conclude that we are not satisfied that the representatives of the competent state authorities have not responded to the call of the Committee of Auditors, and they had to, the Rules of Procedure oblige them. In your report you gave several thematic areas. One is under the title – claims by parents, the second – the management of medical records, the third – funeral services, the fourth – the process of keeping parent books, the fifth – the adoption process, is a very short text section, the sixth – pre-criminal procedure, the seventh – the criminal procedure of articulation through DNA analysis and then the conclusions with the proposals of measures go. I have to say, as far as I'm aware of through the media and how many opportunities I've had to read those parents' statements or to see on TV when they came forward, etc., here all their statements and demands have been reduced, they've expressed their doubts and knowledge that they've been searching for the truth about their missing children who have been documented as dead. I don't think that's a bit fitting to what we've had the chance to hear from these people. People have said very specifically – we have received some documentation that our child died immediately after childbirth, and we express our suspicion and it moves in this sense that the child is alive and day-to-day, except somewhere in another family was adopted, and the parent has received some documentation that allegedly established the fact of death. Maybe this is just a matter of formulation, I'm not getting into it. I think it was the main task of the Committee of Auditors to determine whether there were such cases, that parents get the proper documentation from which it is seen that the child died in childbirth, and that the child is alive, so now whether he is in another family, whether abroad, in the end, it is not important that the new location. I think that's the core of the problem that made parents raise their voice. Of course, they publicly raised their voice when they saw that they kept the prosecution quiet, the police, the Ministry of Health, etc. That's where the answer should be found. Have you come to the Bureau's work to find out that there have been cases like this? Yes, medical records indicate that the newborn is dead, and that it is now alive, 20, 30 years old has a child, is a member of another family. That's how I interpreted the mission of the Survey Committee. In this context there are certain circumstances, some facts, without being able to go there now towards an absolute truth, if it can be absolute. I have to tell you, it's now my personal impression, you've given here what problems medical records, home books, funeral services, etc. I don't argue, this is as good as a guideline to those who need to prepare some regulations that regulate this area and here's every honour to the Committee of Auditors, I think it's a good endeavor. However, I must draw your attention to where the conclusions are, what these people are most interested in. You only concluded under regular number nine, on page 13, you wrote: "The Ancesst Committee specifically draws attention to this fact – the loss of a trace of the deceased baby from the health institution to the chapel and the cemetery and believes that this fact is extremely important and that determining the circumstances regarding this fact by the competent authorities must be given a reasoned answer". I'm sorry, but I think you had to sort of tell us that there was a reasonable suspicion that the parents who objected, alarmed, rightly that there was a reasonable suspicion that something had been done, which was not in accordance with the regulations. It is recommended to the competent authorities to pay attention to the responsibility of those involved in that part of the hospital in the lighting of these applications, in respect of these parts, etc. Here, of course, there goes the recommendation, the answer to that question, I'd give a more complete picture to determine the truth about the missing newborn. I agree completely, but everything had to come down to this point, to this conclusion. This is what the parents were looking for, which was put in place by the motion for a decision to set up a survey committee as a future task, and I think we've gotten the impression that this is why the Survey Committee is being formed. Simply, the state authorities are powerless to give a real qualified answer to what happened from the hospital to that NN place there, and the parents have received documentation that the baby died, and they suspect that the child is alive and that, through adoption, I am not going in which way now, separated from biological parents. I have to draw your attention, because I completely agree that it's very difficult for a parent to answer a question like this, a problem like this. I don't give myself the right to even think about saying – with this argument this parent who claims is right, and this parent is not. I can't say that, like losing a child is the biggest punishment for a parent, and that parent has the right to doubt what happened his whole life. My parents before me had one child, it died in childbirth, and they spent their whole lives thinking about it, even though it was '52, '53. A year. They always thought, and when I asked if I was an only child, they said, "Son, there was a man before you, but he died in childbirth." And it haunted them all their lives, so I fully understand those parents. Of course, I got a handicap later, because I didn't have a brother or a sister, but those who hate me tried to find my own brother even though I'm an only child, but they don't matter anymore because the people already wrote them off. I need to draw your attention to the fact that you had to sort of find out when you wrote, I know that you wrote from the best intentions what the proposal was, so I think, under the regular number four, where you're considering something about the limitations of a criminal procedure, the conduct of a criminal procedure for these acts. I know that under the influence of what you had the opportunity to hear at the meetings of the Committee of Auditors from those parents that something had worked and said, so how can it become obsolete? I totally understand, but absolute obsolescence depends primarily on a threatened punishment for some crime. You know, if the punishment for a crime is, say, two years, then the maltene is defined and absolute obsolescence and then what happened in 1970, let's go to some pleonasms, several times it's an obsolescence and now that principle, it's the principle of legality, it can't be annulled. Bringing these crimes into contact with some other criminal acts where there is no possibility of obsolescence and the conduct of criminal proceedings anywhere on the globe does not exist. So, it's more than one of my suggestions that, I agree with what you wanted simply, if someone found out that they committed a crime, although now it's a question and what I'm saying if they were to be determined, how to determine if a criminal case is not being conducted for obsolescence, but if it's well-founded, and I think you had reason for that reasonable suspicion because in the work of the Survey Committee, a doctor showed up, how informed I was, who said – what you're attacking me, it's out of date. A little rude in that case, he appeared in front of the Survey Committee, but I'm not going to mention names now because when I mention a name, some of the tails of these socio-political workers are immediately added. The problem of absolute obsolescence, believe me, could not solve any commission, but I agree that this should be reconsidered and your initiative is to form some group that would examine what opportunities are. This is how the prosecution's deblockation would be carried out. Well, the prosecution isn't blocked, you know. If the prosecution is blocked, it's blocked by not obsolescence, but by not doing what needs to be done in time. The law can't block the prosecution, because the prosecution is acting according to the law, it has to apply the law, but if there is a blockage in the prosecution, then the NN is responsible for the deputy prosecutor, who kept the case in a drawer, etc. So I'm saying, here the multilayer problem of truth is material, formal, judicial, human, ultimately, sense of justice and justice, etc. He says, it's a good thing you've realized this is basically some quality surveillance, and this other one is also good. I'm just interpreting this as a recommendation when it comes to some law on the DNA register, etc. That's one of the recommendations, and from what I understand from the opening statement of the president of the Committee, it's either in principle or to say it verbally accepted, but it's not coming. It's that promise, and we're looking forward to it, so I can figure it out. I really understand what kind of problem you've been facing because, as you said, everything on some ledge needs to be satisfied with some justice, something that's true. I haven't heard the truth of the Survey board here, you know. What you've given is like a medical statement. The truth is, it wasn't well done and it had to be arranged. And about the documentation relating to the parent books, that there are some gaps and that it should be arranged, about funeral companies that there are protests and that it should be arranged, but there is no truth, a sign of truth that would satisfy all these families, and I think 700 and some of the parents who have addressed it, 764 applications were, I don't think they got any satisfaction, and I'm getting the impression that they were represented – and now that it's taken by the Survey Committee, it's going to be true. It was easy going with those promises. The Bureau can determine some facts, it can only determine some circumstances under which something happened, what happened and possibly express, if at that level, a reasonable suspicion that there is something illegal. Special attention deserves what is found to be something that could be said – administrative failure in the work of the service, so I would now define it as an administrative regulation of hospitals and maternity homes, rules of parent books, funeral companies. Now, probably after this report, the competent state authorities need to prepare a change, an amendment to those regulations that regulate this. So, if it's medical records and protocols, probably the Ministry of Health needs some sublaw to prescribe it. I may be wrong, but by some logic of things, if it's about birth certificates, it's probably up to our law on parent books, and if it's about the functioning of these funeral companies, then there's a part of it that has to do with the law of the Republic, and a lot more local self-government in whose jurisdiction these companies are. In what sense, to introduce, if I may say, the administrative order in seduction, the keeping of documents, and even if the proper sanctions are prescribed, whether they are infrequent, whether or not they are anything else, but given these regulations, they should probably be violations, to introduce more rigorous control of the work of the competent services, it's entirely in agreement, and I think it's coming out of this and that it should certainly be supported. However, we do not respond to our parents. I hope no one will object to me for comparing things that are incomparable at first sight. A parent is always a child, even when a child is 60 years old, and a father and mother at 90 years old, is that it is 60 years old but it is a child for a parent. You know, when there were bombings from these villains, not just RTS, but other locations, a lot of young people died, parents were injured, they lost some of themselves permanently, they're angry. They are angry at themselves, and at the state, and at me, and at you, and at your neighbors, and at everyone, and at those who bombed, and at the one who signed it. You see, and then it happened that it was impossible to reduce the pain of some people and I completely understand them, I never resent my parents, but then a situation came together, so one man allegedly was to blame for the bombing. He's even been made up of a crime. I'm not going to mention names and last names on purpose so I don't irritate some of the NGOs to abuse their parents again, etc. You know what this is about. If there was more pressure here, be safe and independent from obsolescence and independent from other things, someone would be in jail. It's simply how the regulations apply in Serbia. If that lobby is blowing through the media, I'm still not going to give my judgment on these media, but it's very bad, it's negative, if they pump up a story, there's some results, there's going to be a lot of pressure on everyone who needs to apply. Today we have judges and prosecutors who fear NGOs. When a campaign starts in the media, then the essence forgets, forget what anybody did, what anybody said. They're driving them crazy, until they get bored with people, at some point it gives some results, as you can see, now it's giving results and it's good, let them attack. Finally, to repeat, I had no intention of questioning the work of the Committee of Auditors at all. I only tried to explain what problems he was facing, how many levels of truth and the types of truth here, not in the Report, but he's asking the Committee of Auditors if we're going to be satisfied or not, probably parents can't be satisfied, especially if the situation is such that the parent got some documentation about the child, that he died, when it was being done, asked, there's nothing, then there's some doubt left with the right. We cannot treat this suspicion by what we say – there is a problem with medical records and records in the parent books. Believe me, that doesn't satisfy you as an answer. As I left with some personal examples, my father, for example, died in surgery after surgery. They're talking there, there's some medical care missing, help, I've been busy, etc. That suspicion stays with me. I've never initiated a single procedure and I have no intention of initiating the procedure, but that suspicion remained with me, biting me from time to time, so maybe this is, maybe it's that, etc. These parents, I know they're in a nightmare, in one mess, they're quietly killed by suspicion, if there's any documentation, so there's another story from former workers of a particular maternity ward, etc., then it gets intensified, they're rightly burdened, I don't know if we can satisfy them with this report. Believe me, I'm not sure this report is enough pressure on the authorities. I don't think so. I think there should be some truth that fits the facts, without entering a criminal-legal aspect or some other aspect. If the authorities could come up with some facts, why, let's say – we've found that and that, but we can't prosecute NN faces for obsolescence. The truth must always win, you know. The truth can never hide, as hate can never hide. A man who hates doesn't see at one point, loses his eyesight, and then slips into something else, something that sucks, and then the truth comes out again, but painful for him. We need to find some truth. I'm deliberately saying "some," not criminal-legal, because apparently obsolescence has done its part. However, you said in the report that this refers to the 1970-1990 period. You said it mainly refers to that period. If there are those that are not covered by obsolescence, then it would have to be discussed, because the law exists, the law obliges. In that sense, I am also taking this opportunity to call on the competent state authorities, if there is any application, it is some suspicious act that does not cover obsolescence, that the state demonstrates its effectiveness and that these applications and acts are illuminated, so possibly, if there is a basis for criminal responsibility, that the relevant regulation is applied. It's the most difficult thing to do on a flat-rate attack without the right fact. I fully understand Mr. Paiu Momchilov for coming out here and saying. He didn't criticise the Bureau, I think you misunderstood him and that observation of his, as far as your medical term is concerned, Mr. Momchilov talked more about documents that were central, that is. A health institution where a new rule was made, so he said they were using old inappropriate terms again. I think you've got it all wrong, but it's not the first time in this assembly that everything that's said from this pay phone turns around. It's best to always read a stenogram. The stenograms say exactly who said what. Probably what he's saying, that's what he's thinking. The word binds, and thoughts are the wealth of each individual. It's not good when someone else's words wheeze their luxuriant thoughts. Unfortunately, we have a situation for these socio-political workers, journalists, who process their thoughts as other people's words. Take care, in this room each of the 250 MPs can at some point be the victim of such manipulation. Smile, make sure you don't get into a situation so others smile at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27991	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a unique search, do I ask if the representative of the Survey Committee, the MP of Zivodarka Dacin, wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27992	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I am pleased that you have been involved in the debate on the report submitted by the Committee of Auditors here in front of you and in front of the public. The Committee of Auditors had a very difficult task. This survey board, of course, that at no time on behalf of all the members of the Survey Committee, I don't think anyone wanted to make any criticism, but rather, that he shared dilemmas, doubts, and probably all that he would think about was an actor in the work of this survey board, and we understand that very well. But, to the truth, this is the fifth survey committee established by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the only one who gave the Report, the conclusions, proposed measures, and they also serve to discuss all of this, whether there was any excuse to form one survey committee or not. We think there was an excuse to form a committee like this. I must say that I respect the remarks of my colleague Krasic, a respected lawyer, because he was making a game of legal terminology in which, truth be told, none of these five signatories are from that profession. Of course, that wasn't our goal. That's why we said, precisely by respecting that, besides colleagues, Krasic, we have other colleagues whose profession, professions and who will be able to analyse, and as MPs, to give the opportunity to amend and supplement all those laws or regulations that have never been so far. Of course, we were aware of the fact that neither at the very beginning nor at the very beginning did he promise anything, except that he promised to work, that he would give the reports, that the reports would be in front of you, that we would give the proposed measures. This is what is in line with the law and powers that we as a temporary body, formed in the Serbian Parliament, and as MPs, we have both by law and by the Rules of Procedure. Of course it wasn't our goal, nor our desire, even in direct communication with them, to comfort our parents, for there is never any comfort. Even the truth, can she be a comfort to her parents? What I am doing, and I want to speak out loud and clear again, on behalf of all the members of the Committee of Auditors, that we do not consider that there is a reasonable doubt by these parents, would we suggest these measures and would we ask that the MUP, the prosecution and the courts give the answers that something like this has happened or has not, but has been justified, factually. So, I want to thank all those, and these weren't just the MPs, who helped us in the work of the Survey Committee, that we could propose the measures that this executive authority and the state authorities would have to implement. It's the only way to restore trust in this institution, and then to everyone else. This way I call upon all those who can, in any way, help in lighting and learning all the facts that some of you have, to address the competent authorities, because I trust you deeply, and I tell you for a reason, that these proposed measures will be respected by the ministries to which they are addressed. We have promises like that, and we have no reason not to believe it. All the MPs and many people employed in this congregation building stopped me and told me that somewhere in their past they had a story that floated, which is smoldering, but never determined what it was. I want to say that right now, while I listened very carefully to all my fellow MPs who spoke, my distinguished colleague Toma Busetic gave me his cell phone, because one father called and wanted to talk to me, and he said his name, last name and the sum. Do you think that man should still be called by the M.O.P., say and check all that data? People are watching this, people are watching this, they know that we are neither investigative nor executive, but the Serbian Parliament, the MPs and your consent to form the Survey Committee is the only one who has responded to their five-year refusal of all the doors of this country. Therefore, on behalf of all of this, I call you once again – allow, give your parents a chance, give your country a chance to the truth, vote for the report of this survey board and let us check all the deadlines for what competent authorities will do. Let's forget our party divisions, forget our political ideas, because like I said, this isn't politics and it shouldn't be. This is life. So please, in voting day, if you vote this report, you'll give your parents a chance to come to their truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27993	I'm concluding a unique search on this agenda point. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – THE SCHOOL OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS For this part of the agenda, you have adopted the following draft decisions: 1. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges, number 119-926/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor, No 119-927/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, number 119-927/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. At the same time, I'm setting a break by 14.30 p.m., when the proposing representatives will arrive, and we'll open a search.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27994	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 160(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for a decision. We have Olga Đuricic, a member of the High Council of Justice. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27995	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no conditions for continuing the work of today's assembly. With all due respect to the lady who's here today, we can't discuss the proposals, because we don't have an authorised representative. Just because we have some paperwork here, that file could have been sent from the Justice Council to get a courier, but we don't have a man we can communicate with here. So, when Mrs. Vida Petrovic Škero was at one of the sessions, she said she couldn't react to one of our remarks, because we didn't tell her in good time, and if we had, she would have known right away to respond and to react in the sense of whether or not to withdraw any proposal. Since we do not have such a possibility today, we do not have an authorised representative, nor Minister Zoran Stojkovic, or Vidu Petrovic Škero, nor a public prosecutor, since we also have prosecutorial functions on the agenda, so we from the SRS insist that the Rules of Procedure be respected and that today's work, that is, we discuss this part of the agenda when the proposings, or representatives, are present. Please, Mr. Chairman, that you are taking care of this, we cannot really accept it, especially if we do not know whether these proposals were on the committees in charge, nor do we have the opinion of the board, because it is known that the SRS MPs are not taking part in the work of the board due to the coup that was carried out by the government of Vojislav Kostunica in Serbia, and it has been said afterwards that there have been comments that there is absolutely no importance of the work of the board and that the failure of Serbian radicals on boards, or the failure to participate in the work of those committees, cannot endanger the work of Parliament, and on the other hand, we have a Rulesman who says that only one MP can sit in this room, because everyone else is working on boards and we do not know whether the committees are so important or that they are irrelevant. But despite this view of the Justice and Administration Committee, which we do not have here in writing, we insist that these very important issues, today we should discuss whether anyone will be appointed as a public prosecutor, for the president of one of the courts, for a judge, etc. In addition to all the findings that we have often had from the minister, and based on the knowledge that we have from the SRS, the very poor situation in the judiciary and given some platform and reforms that are ahead and discussed here, which you of the assembly majority have praised, it would not be good, nor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nor is it permitted to discuss today without an authorised representative of the motionor. We insist that the session be terminated until conditions are met. Mrs Vida Petrovic Skero and Zoran Stojkovic cannot ignore the National Assembly and MPs. Do they have any obligations, I don't know, and I'm not getting into it. The agenda of this session was long known, it was known when around this point would be on the agenda, and if someone had to coordinate their time, then they would have to align it with the work of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27996	The president of the assembly informed me that Mrs. Djuric would be present here today, informing me that he had reached an agreement that we could work in that sense that a member of the Council would record the objections that are here, so that from that position, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, there are two members who sort of regulate the presence, but not the obligation. At the meeting of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, members of the government, authorised representatives of other legislators, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who are calling for the president of the National Assembly. I realized that the president of the assembly invited Ms. Olga Đuricic, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. There is another member who regulates this issue, which is 93 – at the opening of the search of each session agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak has an act promoter, a committee rapporteur, a MP, representatives of parliamentary clubs, MPs. A member himself regulates who has the right to speak. When it comes to the Ministry Act, the minister's presence is foreseen. That's what the Rules of Procedure predicts. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27997	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 31 and Article 27. Article 27 speaks of the obligations of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and of Article 31 on what are the powers of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. I will also refer to Article 87, paragraph 2, which you, Mr Angelkovic, quoted, to explain to you that this is a precedent and that this is the highlight of the insolence of the ruling parties and of the 99 MPs who signed this session for the National Assembly. For the sake of continuity, as some would say, they tend to use these expressions only in the function of clouding crime and corruption in the country, which is a key problem for citizens, thieving on all sides, which is no longer normal to suffer, that the mafia is doing whatever it wants, as well as various criminal clans and because of this continuity and suffering that citizens face with all the problems that we, MPs, expect to protect their rights, especially from the haughtiness and passion of the government that behaves like this and who does not want to deign our public and, above all, MPs, to explain from where these proposals, especially individual ones, for prosecution functions, which we want to talk about and that some proposals are challenged, taking into account neither the qualification nor the role that Mrs. Djuricic has as a member of the High Council of Justice, but this is incredible. The president of the National Assembly, Predrag Markovic, was in the afternoon section, so before the break, when the chairman of Mr Radojko Obradovic knew that there was this, conditionally speaking, problem for you, or for him, but that is not a problem for the SRS and for the citizens of Serbia. When you called, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I can now get off this list, and there are 99 MPs on it, to call you exactly how many of you are in the hall, the ten of you are in the hall, the eleventh has entered and you, sir, are 12, you are the ten of you from the list of calls in which you invite us to decide such important points of the agenda. Point 19 of the agenda, which was left for the very end of this session, the large session, where we had active participation, gave numerous amendments and objections, reads – The choice of legal holders, the proposal for a decision on the election of judges, the proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor under the number of teams and teams, the proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors who submitted the High Council of Justice. It's never happened before, and it's in the function of the president's business behavior, if it's such a day that he wants to respect the Rules of Procedure that he proposed himself and you adopted him, that he behaves in this way when it comes to any topic and any point. Never did Predrag Markovic continue to violate the Rules of Procedure on our insistence, by sending us a deputy, assistant, deputy assistant, and in this case a lady who is a member of the High Council, it is our insistence that this offends the dignity of the National Assembly and of us MPs and citizens, because today we need to discuss the theft, the robbery, the mafia, everything that is burning today in the state, that you do not cloud the reality of some of your inventions, nonsense, and everything is directed against the SRS, but in the situation, here, I am very glad that you came, in a situation where you may want to be like Predrag Markovic on your strong or weak shoulders, let the citizens and MPs take responsibility for not coming to you, Minister and Mrs Škero, we cannot justify it. We insist, as the only opposition political party, the largest parliamentary group, to bring here both Minister and Mrs. Shkero, with all due respect, I repeat again, Mrs. Đuricic, who is here, but we cannot talk in such a way. We can't, because she's in no position to go out of business, because the Rules of Procedure won't allow her to answer our specific remarks. It can record what individual MPs dispute, as well as SRS MPs, and especially because of the fact, Mr Markovic, that you know that as the most numerous political party, we came out with one position two days ago. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has also told you and the general public that we will no longer participate in the work of the committee, because a kind of coup has been carried out in our country, by means of no choice, but by setting up a citizen of Serbia, Vuk Draskovic, this unfortunate foreign minister and that other unfortunate minister of defense, against constitutional and illegal, that we are then the only way to express our objections, and the only right we now have is for the assembly speaker. Now you're going to go out with some attitude, and you're going to tell some stories, and this guy answered, and he didn't answer. Nicely, interrupt the session, call Stojkovic and Vida, see where they are, which is why they are not here now, and we, as responsible people, will be responsible MPs at the moment when you, as Parliament Speaker, can help you with this Milos Aligrudic, who signed under the names of these 99 MPs, ensure the presence of the Minister of Justice and Mrs Shkero and continue to talk and to present our remarks. First of all, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic, under Article 31, because you have been required under Article 3 to inform all vice-presidents and secretaries that, in case you are prevented from sitting, the vice-president you appoint will chair. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you have not just informed me, and she is the vice president of the largest political party in the Assembly, that Mr. Angelkovic will chair, and in case you don't, the oldest vice president, which is certainly not Mr. Angelkovic, which is probably nice and glad, but Mr. Vojislav Mihailovic. So, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and now wait a little while until I'm done, and you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27998	The word is Mr. Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I've seen you, Mr. Krassic. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u27999	First, thank you very much, Ms. Jovanovic, for finding the physical fact that it is necessary for you to complete the presentation, so that I can turn to you and ask you that everyone takes care of it, therefore, that they cannot expect that when they speak, that someone else answers them at the same time, and that is someone who takes care of all MPs, whether they are represented by a larger or smaller number. I can't do it that way, and especially, as you know in a situation where today you're a member of one parliamentary group, tomorrow another, how do I know, some people swear, so they break it, some other thing, so the president can't take care of it, but he has to take care of what the MPs say about this speaker and try to bring it into line with business obligations. Accordingly, there is no problem, of course, that the President of the Assembly ensures the presence of those persons who are necessary for uninterrupted work. In this particular case, thanks to the responsibility of all the MPs who participated in the debate, ending yesterday's session, and also during the session itself several times I said, in case it works so quickly today, that the principle debate on the agenda of the session will be concluded, the follow-up will be on Monday. Since I am able to keep my word, I am capable of obeying the law, certainly, means in case it doesn't end today, it won't work on Friday, because I've notified all MPs. Also, if I were prevented, of course, I would then be able to empower in a way that is perfectly clear, which I did in December, in the event of prevention, but don't trust so much with your eyes, because I am obviously not prevented here, but this is ongoing work and you have members who determine how vice presidents, of course, help in the work of the President of the Assembly. But certainly, since this assembly worked responsibly and quickly, so quickly that it came to the agenda point that the MPs claimed that it was important as soon as possible, because they would present the data, that there were thefts, that there was crime, that the sooner the judges and prosecutors had to react, the sooner they had to respond, I was absolutely right, on the edge of the business obligation, accepted and asked Mr Angelkovic to start the afternoon session, so that as soon as possible, in the presence of the person who is a member of the High Council, who has all the papers, heard the objections, and that the public heard the remarks, and that there was no time to lose, but to get to the situation that the judges and those prosecutors, to whom there would be no objections from the parliamentary group, would be really possible to prevent crime, because I thought you were in a hurry. Since it is not, apparently, a matter of course, always in front of good intentions to help MPs and Rules of Procedure, choose the Rules of Procedure as I have so far, and in that sense, in accordance with what I said yesterday and promised, I will set a session on Monday at 10.00, and since I failed, because I wanted to come out to you, to ensure the presence of the promoter, today, before we expected it to come to the agenda and that I heard about it to Mrs Šker and Mr Stojkovic, and they informed in due time that they could not arrive, she from Valjev and he from the cabinet session, taking into account your remarks, so I am determining that on Monday, at 10.00 hours, the session will begin by continuing the debate on the basis of election of judicial officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-15-0.u28000	I thank you, Mr. President. Otherwise, let me just say, Article 31 of point 1 says: "The vice presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly do business in his work." I tried to help. It doesn't have to, that's what the third point says, so I'm just acting in accordance with Article 31(1) and in paragraphs 2 and 3 is already about the President of the Assembly. I thank you and I'll see you Monday at 10.00.
