ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this would be clear to everyone in Serbia, if it hadn't been for the most brutal abuse in the meantime, and for the very institute of resignations, and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for ministers, and I would say, too, that the citizens of Serbia and all present MPs of the National Assembly are being manipulated. In fact, if you had read this news at any other time, there would have been salves of enthusiasm and applause of the MPs and I am confident that there would be great joy in the streets of Serbia's cities, in the villages and villages of Serbia. But, Mr. Markovic, you announced this, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, at a time when we all know that the President of the Republic will hold elections tonight or tomorrow for January 21st, 2007. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] You are now informing us how they resigned. Until the last moment, they were sitting in government, using everything they could from the government of the Republic of Serbia, money, state privileges and everything, and now, for God's sake, we realize that their resignations are correct. What changed, Mr. Markovic, in those papers compared to what you had last time? Were the ministers illiterate then, and now they became particularly written? Are those ministers, or vice-presidents of the government, who do not attend the formal session for the declaration of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia -- those who call for no vote for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are these members of the Government? Mr. President of the National Assembly, are those whose shift we've been looking for several times, and you didn't want to put it on the agenda, and today you're informing us, you're saying, in order to say that they're more of a moral person. No, these are deeply immoral people, who have destroyed the country of Serbia in previous years. These are the people who, until the last moment and moment, drained everything from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and those in the government suffered them and told them that they were the best -- who you are -- that's what it says about Vojislav Kostunica and the whole government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause by the Serbian Radical Party.]] But don't distract us by fulfilling someone's party tasks and orders, so today you're going to declare it, and last time they were illiterate. As the coat of arms is born, time does not correct - said Valtazar Bogisic. They were illiterate for two months, they didn't describe themselves in two months, because a man has to finish elementary school for eight years. I doubt you'd be able to describe them in two months. And we will soon, on January 21st 2007, no matter what you read to them or not, free Serbia from those who destroyed it in the previous period. Thank you very much. [[A large round of applause from the Serbian Radical Party.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29632	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I've seen you, Mr. Omerovic, I'll give you my word. Mr. Vucciku, I understand the parties have their political views and their views. My job and my obligation is to do exactly according to the law, and this fact confirms everything that has been said publicly at the pay phone and what has been accepted by the Assembly already by the MPs present in the hall. It is a pleasure to work under the law and the Rules of Procedure, so I now give my word, according to the Rules of Procedure, to Mr Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29633	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, it is my pleasure to be here tonight in this high house. However, I am advocating the breach of the Rules of Procedure and, unfortunately, I have to admit already on the first step and violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we declared yesterday, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia confirmed in a two-day referendum, held on 28 and 29 October 2006. Article 126 of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, subtitled "Incompatibility of Functions", states: "A member of the Government cannot be a National MP in the National Assembly, an MP in the Autonomous Province Assembly and a committee member in the local self-government unit, nor a member of the Executive Council of the Autonomous Province or the executive body of the unit of local self-government". Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak only of one person present here tonight in the O.R., who is also a National MP and minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I demand a break for the session of the Legislative Committee, for the session of the Obera for Constitutional Affairs - to declare whether Mr Slobodan Lalovic, who is also a National MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Labour and Employment in the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, violated the Constitution - so that we can continue uninterruptedly to fulfil our obligations and duties entrusted to us by the citizens. I think it would be very bad if in the first step, since we have determined the resignations of the Ministers of the Government from the G17 Plus, we continue to work so that we violate the Constitution at its first step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29634	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. I ask all MPs to concentrate on what we say in this room. I have made clear to the MPs whether it is possible and how to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I'm glad they're all tolerated. I am also pleased, I see by the reactions, that the majority is still concentrated and aware that we are just opening a session where we need to create an opportunity – because of this in such detail, responsible, sometimes nervous, with little bile, as the journalists have seen today, we have been working, and I thank the representatives of all parliamentary groups, who have finally reached that we can, just to apply the Constitution that has been declared – to meet today what you have been preceding, and that is the adoption and declaration of constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution, and then there will be the conditions that you have spoken of. Until then, it's not possible to decide this. Thank you. We move to consider the proposal for a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government. I ask for a little understanding, because we've all decided until a moment ago, so I have to make sure that I don't accidentally skip any of the MPs who have been responsible for presenting and submitting the amendment. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Miloljub Albianić, Predrag Marković, Hranislav Perić, Toma Busetic, Zoran Andjelkovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Dusan Petrovic, together Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic and Toma Busetic, together Zoran Andeljković, Rajko Baralić, Milorad Vucelic, Živodarka Dacin, Ivica Dačić, Milan Janković, Dragan S. Jovanovic, Dragan M. Jovanovic, Bojan Kekić, Svetislav Krstić, Milomir Minić, Milan Nikolic, Zarko Obradović, Milisav Petronjević, Miloje Savijanić, Zvrodorad Smiljanić, Zvojmir Stević, Živojin Stefanović, Brance Stojanović and Jovan Todorovović, as well as the government of Serbia. You've received a report from the Constitutional Affairs Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Hranislav Perić on Article 3, Zoran Andjelković, Rajko Baralić, Milorad Vucelic, Živodarka Dacin, Ivica Dačić, Milan Janković, Dragan S. Jovanovic, Dragan M. Jovanovic, Bojan Kekić, Svetislav Krstic, Milomir Minić, Milan Nikolic, Zarko Obradović, Milisav Petronjević, Miloje Savinić, Živorad Smiljanić, Zvonimir Stević, Živojin Stefanović, Brance Stojanović and Jovan Todorovic on Article 3, Toma Busetic on Article 3, Tomislav Nikolic on Article 3 and on Article 12. Dusan Petrovic to Article 3, Predrag Marković to the title above Articles 4 and 4 and to the title above Articles 5 and 5, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic and Toma Busetić to Article 4, Zoran Angelkovic to Article 19 and the amendment submitted by the Government to Article 20. At the meeting of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, MPs adopted, and the proposing representative accepted the amendment of MP Predrag Markovic to members 3 and 9, the title above members and Article 19, as well as the amendment to Article 20, so I realize that these amendments to Predrag Markovic have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I understand that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. Should I read it? (Zoran Angelkovic, from place: No need. ) I thank you for your tolerance. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. As I remind you, I have called this session as a special session for the purposes of declaring the Constitution and the adoption and declaration of constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution, I am opening a single search. Which means that, because a decision on the declaration is finally made, this means that we will first consider during the examination of the views of the registered speakers, then we will approach the statement on the amendments, and then we will approach the vote on the bill. I'm opening a unique search and asking if a proposing official, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29635	Dear Chairman, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honour and pleasure that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since this is our first meeting after yesterday's declaration of the Constitution, I congratulate the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Thank you. Today, we are also facing a new historical moment. It's a historic moment because, after the new Constitution, it is before us as proposings, and before you, a historic task to adopt the law to implement the Constitution. In this act, we will be able to start applying the Constitution or other words to bring the Constitution into life. In order for us to do so as successfully, as you did on September 30th with a historic unanimous decision in this House to adopt the Constitution, it is necessary, by the same procedure, by at least two-thirds majority, on the principle of political consensus, to adopt the law for the implementation of the Constitution, and to enable what is a natural consequence that the Constitution begins to apply by calling elections tonight. I must therefore express my gratitude to all those MPs who have accepted the call and expressed their readiness at the previous session of the Constitutional Committee, in order to allow the adoption of the constitutional law, to withdraw their amendments for which there was no necessary political consensus. In this way, you are once again, and I hope that tonight the assembly debate and the plea will show that we are in a position when it comes to basic national and state interests to give them the importance and priority over individual party interests. By adopting this law, we will allow the Constitution to begin to apply, and that, after it has been stated, will be another great victory for all of us and for the victory of our country, Serbia's victory. I just want to take this opportunity to, unfortunately, condemn today's latest terrorist act by Albanian separatists in Kosovo and Metohija on Serbian Milorad Chopic from the village of Yearnica near Kosovo Vitina. This is, unfortunately, another in a series of evidence that it was necessary, among other things, to protect our citizens living in that part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia called Kosovo and Metohija, to bring in a new Constitution, and that tonight, I hope, on the principle of broad political consensus, with the votes of all those MPs who are for the state of Serbia, we adopt a law implementing the Constitution. I therefore call on you from this speaker to support this government proposal, which is based on the premises of the expected political and possible compromise, with your votes tonight and to allow the new Serbian Constitution, by calling elections, to begin and apply. Once again, I congratulate you all on the new Constitution and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29636	Thank you, Mr. Lonchar. I ask if a representative of the Constitutional Affairs Committee wants a word? No, thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, please, Alexander Vukic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has put a lot of work into the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, knowledge and best faith into the big business for Serbia. I am obliged to say, because of the various statements made by individuals in the media, because of once deliberately misrepresentation and our political views, but also what really happened in the previous period, that we entered this business not because of our particular party interests, but because of the interest of the Serbian state, because of the interests of Serbian citizens and the future of our children. We entered this business as an opposition political party, I would say the only opposition political party essentially on Serbia's political stage, to show that the opposition can behave appropriately, honestly, honestly, responsibly and seriously, in line with the difficult historical moment in which our country is today. All of our voters were invited to attend a referendum, to vote in favour of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which we installed many solutions and ideas of the SRS, of some we had to give up, because there was or had to be some kind of compromise with representatives of other political parties, and all of this was not at all difficult for us. We made the greatest effort on October 28th and 29th by calling on all our members, supporters and activists to come to a referendum to confirm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Even on Sunday, when we saw that there was not enough motivation for our citizens, we changed the message, and we think that the change in the message contributed to the constitution in the referendum being confirmed, where we made it clear to people what the consequences would be and what would be done by those who wanted to partow the state of Serbia, primarily by kidnapping our territory, kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija. And today we have agreed to compromise again, although we think it is reasonable and rational in the text of constitutional law to accept most of what Serbian radicals have advocated, precisely because he is a severely wounded Serb again, and the state of Serbia is the only thing that can say is 'we are fiercely protesting that'', but again most politicians in Serbia will be dealing with this -- how to misjudge the SRS, how tomorrow on the front page of some newspapers to write something against radicals, as on B92, in the impactive information show, just that something goes against the SRS. By our behaviour in the previous period, we have shown our behaviour today, and that is why I am proud to be a member of the SRS, how the state, the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia can and must be ahead of any political or consequential interests. We are today, not because of us, in all public opinion studies, of those people who are not close to the SRS, the strongest political force in Serbia. Whether you have 2, 3, 1 or 5 more MPs for us is not important compared to what the state of Serbia will look like, whether we will have our country or not. For us, the political priority and goal is Serbia, its future and the future of our children. That's why we did it today and we accepted it. We said Serbia's interest is not to have the elections in December. Many insisted only on it, but at all costs. The question was raised for the citizens of Serbia - and why is it so important to someone, why is it so terrible to be in January? And they decided at all costs to force it in December, both from ministers and from the president of Serbia, and from many others we heard such claims. What is it that hides from the citizens of Serbia? Is this some kind of negative solution for Kosovo and Metohija that they don't want to meet the citizens of Serbia, whether it hides the bloating and bloating of the so-called. The National Investment Plan? So now, we've managed to somehow push everything in, cover all the holes in the muscles there by December 15th, and then the flood, it's only important to cross the census, for some to take part in one or that magic way again, for others to avoid jail, for some third reason, who knows already. He wasn't one of those reasons for us. We wanted to tell you, by our behaviour in the process of adopting all standards in the constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that we want this constitution, which is the fruit of compromise, probably always the result of compromise and the best for Serbia and its citizens, to be implemented in action. But instead of getting 82 mandates, it's 100 more important to see how we can protect Mr. Chopic and everyone else. And let's see how we're going to answer Marty Ahtisaari's letter which we assume you're seeing better guesses than we are, it's not gonna be good for Serbia. Let's see what's what for our country right now is the most important thing. It seems to me that the representatives of some other parties have not been guided by these objectives. That's why we've been blackmailed, that's why pressures have been made, blackmailed as part of the political public, I don't think anyone can pressure us and blackmail this guy for anything, because it's known that we're not afraid of anything and that we're going out with what we think and what we think is best for the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. What's with all the pressure? So someone could sit in a chair? Well, we've had messages from the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, especially from the President of the Republic -- I'm going to meet with Ollie Rehn and tell him that the most important thing for us is that we have elections before the Kosovo Metohic solution. What kind of message is that to the citizens of Serbia, what is that to the citizens of Serbia? It is said to all of us – hey, Serbian citizens, I am telling you that the solution for Kosovo and Metohija will be very bad, that I know what that solution will be. I also advise you not to be particularly interested in what's going to happen, but to just be interested in me sitting in my chair, getting her fat on both sides, still being a president or some kind of official in the future government, and after that, we don't care about Kosovo and Metohija. It was a message from the authorities, a message that couldn't be interpreted in any other way than this. And for a wonderful miracle, in the domestic media, it was not condemned, it was not convicted, especially among those who, with all their heart and all their strength, support both the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, and a partial or complete occupation of Serbia, etc. And we can understand that, but we can't understand that MPs, those who have been elected by citizens, don't raise their voice against it. For us, no chair on the globe of the Earth, nor the chair of the People's MP, nor the chair of the President of the Republic, is more important than the head of any single Serb in Kosovo and Metohija, any single man living in Kosovo and Metohija. For us, their interest is incomparably more important. It's not just their interest, it's the inside of the whole state. I know some people are gonna say they're going with a message, which you don't care about, let's live one life. What does that mean? Let me live a life, steal, rob what you get, do where you come up with it, you don't care about Kosovo and Metohija. Is that what this is about? I didn't understand it the other way. This kind of policy, and I'm not talking about a political party that has been identified in it, I'm talking about some prominent public figures and their media promoters, who tell us every day, preparing the ground for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, who want to say, but it doesn't matter, it's all right, life continues. No, we all thought we'd all jump into a well. Well, of course life continues, but the state exists and the state has as long as you have the people, the sovereign power and the territory. These are the three basic elements of each country. But we have no territory, no state, no people, no state. Then let them say it. But that's not reality. Reality is something else. So let's put an end to the election, tell us that we no longer have state authorities, that we don't have elections, that we're setting up occupation galleaters, and they're going to exercise some power. Instead of driving licenses, they're gonna give us some Ausavis or I don't know what to do and we're gonna finish the story. That's not the answer. That's why we're satisfied, no matter what we've done, some kind of compromise, and I have to say today, when the talks went to a dead end, because we were looking for something that we thought belonged to us, something that we thought belonged to the citizens of Serbia, not to the SRS, not to any of us personally. All we asked was for him to be distracted by some broad deadline, not even by the date, by the time of the presidential election. We said we could go to all the elections in March. We said, it's okay that because of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and you know what we think of Boris Tadic, of course, all the worst, and his policy, let's have presidential elections during that time, because as soon as these parliamentary elections are over and the government is formed to go straight to elections for the President of the Republic. So that there will be no vacuum without significant state institutions able to respond to the difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We couldn't reach consensus with political parties. They left the possibility, formal, hopefully, only formally, I hope, that these elections will be held at any time next year. This -- formally, I hope, because Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica gave guarantees and gave his word to SRS Deputy President Tomislav Nikolic that elections for the president of the Republic will be held by 31 May of next year. We have a big job ahead of us, it's the law on the President of the Republic, the law on the military, the law on defence, we have a different spheres of social life to pass laws, which concern first of all elections, and the law on the selection of MPs, the law on the regulation of courts, the law on the election of judges, the law on cassation court, the law on local self-government, the city, the city of Belgrade and many others. The job is ahead of the future National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's up to us to pass a constitutional law like this tonight, despite the fact that none of us are overjoyed by these norms, even though no one can say he won. Perhaps it is the most just and the best, because Serbian citizens know they have received something that is among the interests of all political structures. I think that the SRS did not allow the ultimatum and representatives of individual embassies – today I was surprised to see that US Ambassador Michael Polt did it, I just can't believe that man doesn't know that it's not polite to interfere with other countries' internal affairs and set their election dates – so some in the afternoon changed the decision from the deal, so we said, we didn't agree, let's cut deadlines again, and then give it up again. In this country, we respect everything. No one's bothering us. We love our country. In this country, citizens of Serbia and no one else have to decide. Ambassadors, you are welcome to our country, you are dear guests, represent the interests of your countries, but as long as we exist as a state, we want to decide our fate, the fate of our children is decided by Serbia and its citizens. Those who don't understand it, who are always happy and smile sweetly and say, we'll see how it goes after the campaign. You know what they're counting on? They know they're weaker than Serbian radicals. They're counting, so we're going to beat them at one, two national frequencies, B92 and RTS, if it can be a little over three. We're going to beat them over so many dirty newspapers we have, we're going to invent what we need and how we need them, and we're going to get that famous stealth bridge, invisible in Belgrade. He says we work from 2004 to 2006, draw a bridge that's like a picture book, like Golden Gate, and citizens of Belgrade are pushed in the streets every day, they don't see that bridge anywhere, they haven't seen it anywhere. Only Bogdanovic saw him, a visionary man, and six years of that bridge is gone, people are still pushing, crowds are on the streets of Belgrade, and there's just work to be done and there's something where a little more money can be kidnapped, and a commission, like the one on the auto-command, where managers have 20 locations for their buildings or I don't know what. But I'm done with it, so they don't say that at a solemn moment it's spoken at regional or city level. The SRS will support such a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the best interest of Serbia getting a good constitution. We do not think that it should be changed every year or every four years, when the government in Serbia is changing. First of all, I want to thank the citizens of Serbia, who have given us as MPs a mandate over the past three years. As far as the SRS is concerned, we did everything we could and knew to protect the interests of Serbia's state and citizens. I am convinced that people in Serbia will be able to appreciate it and that in addition to these 80 there will be at least 46 more Serbian radicals in the next term. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29638	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The next reported on the G 17 plus parliamentary group president Milojub Albianic. Please, a little tolerance. I've been dreaming for six years, so I've seen, not now what I see with my naked eye that you're confusing me. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29639	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to say in the beginning that I am proud of the work of this assembly's call, especially the congregation's majority, because we have done several important things. First, we have improved political dialogue in Parliament itself, in the Assembly. We passed 260 laws and crowned our work by adopting a new Constitution of the Serbian state. Of course, the representatives of the European Union have also assessed our work with great respect and followed with respect the adoption of a new Constitution. Of course I want to congratulate all citizens of Serbia on the new Constitution of Serbia and to say that it was the voice "yes" and for the future of our children, and families, and peoples, and country. It was a vote for the state of Serbia. I heard here at the pay phone some criticism, and I want to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as executive authority, has done a significant part of the job. It is true that the National Investment Plan has started, but the National Investment Plan as a responsibility to the state and to the citizens. There was the most important thing to protect state property, but also what has been taken from the state and citizens so far is now being returned through the National Investment Plan, in the best possible way, to all cities and municipalities in Serbia, and to all citizens as well. What is important, when I pointed out this, is that the G17 Plus MP group, the G17 Plus Ministers of the G17 Plus, showed that what is our basic idea is, above all, that professional, responsible people are doing their job for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. That's why I can certainly say that I've become the slogan of "expert in front of politics". What is also important is that today we have a draft constitutional law or law on the implementation of the Constitution itself. So, today there is no misunderstanding, we declared the Constitution of Serbia yesterday in this room, solemnly. I felt dignified and proud and yesterday, and when it was referendum day, but also the day 242 MPs voted unanimously in favour. This unanimously "for" prices both in the European Union and in other parliaments because it is otherwise rare in the world. So the constitutional law or the law on the implementation of the Constitution itself is something else entirely. When I said "expert in front of politics", now I want to point out that today and during the consultation, something completely different has preceded it. It wasn't even politics, there were politics, small concessions and personal interest above all. It wasn't a compromise, as someone here tried to say, because the compromise implies the same behavior as we had for the constitution itself. What has been done here is also a concession to the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. Why? Because the main debate is still going on all day and these days are actually about when elections will be. Some may rightly be afraid of choices. There's a Negoshev about that fear, I don't know what was called "Vucic" so now he's answering. So he's scared too. Mr. Wolfie, let me tell you, she's got his "Fearful Life Mutilates Face Often."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29640	Please, Mr. Albianic, no one answered for a word or recognized himself. They showed in time. Please, you have time at your disposal, since some MPs have asked because there is no timer here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29641	I've got 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29642	That's right. I'm telling you and the rest of you, it's specific here, you use a clock that's above, it's being recorded here, it's not easy to track the weather like in the previous room. I ask all MPs to use it. Here and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29643	So it was not a matter of compromise, but a rotten concession, especially to the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I guess people won't go to the election. This is a unique case in Serbia, because there is nowhere in the world that the opposition to the elections will not. So the government says we're ready, let's take a look around, let's show how much anybody did, and the opposition can't. For that reason too, these distinguished gentlemen, some of them are quite on the political scene of Serbia, some of them are 15 years old, and if I try to remember what they did well for Serbia, unfortunately there is no such thing, so I can't even remember. The various bad things were done, and in this assembly they were followed by an attempt at obstruction, demagogy, empty stories, the refusal to pass some law in the congregation. We're all witnesses to that. Today we are making concessions to the Serbian Radical Party, i.e. those who have been holding back our work all along and trying to make an empty story and demagogy, an obstruction, that we can't, or that we can't, within a certain time, pass the laws, or even try to prevent it at all. That's not what they did. It was a free try. And now we have to make concessions to people like that, to delay the election because of them. Why? Of course, in front of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, in that spirit and sense, I have submitted two amendments. There is still a chance that this thing can be corrected, in law implementing the Constitution of the ICJ possible deadlines for holding elections. What's this about? I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) that the deadline that has been set in the constitutional law so far before the Constitutional Committee was held, that the time for the vote to be called should be at least 45 days, and no more than 120 days, shall be reduced and shall be 30 at least, up to 120 days. This would allow elections, as should be, following a big job done, to be called immediately. Not only are they scheduled, but they will be held for as short a time period as possible, since the government has no congregation majority since this day. That's normal and logical. It's logical that after the constitution is passed, we have elections. But, well, the opposition got in trouble and said, "We don't want to go to elections, I'm sorry, we talked, I'm sorry about what we've been doing to you these three years, but we don't want to go to elections." So there is a normal amendment that can be accepted, to become an integral part of the law, and thus to resolve the G17 plus voting dilemma. In this way we would get conditions if we normally passed constitutional law. I'd like to hear the counterarguments of some, why can't that deadline be between 30 and 120 days? Why can't they go to the election quickly? If they can explain, let them do it. The second amendment, in Article 5(1), the words "the governor of the National Bank of Serbia" are deleted. What I would like to say is that the constitutional law does not provide for harmonisation with the new constitution of the law that determines the work of the National Bank of Serbia. Accordingly, the law should first be passed, and then elected by both the governor and the National Bank of Serbia Council, as well as other things provided for here in the Constitution. What is important to say is that all citizens in Serbia know what a solid dinar means, what it means in economic terms is the stability of one country's money. The National Bank has shown that it is the strongest support for the financial stability of the Serbian state. Today we have foreign exchange reserves that exceed $10 billion, and we can all rightly point out that as something that allows us to have a solid dinar, which allows our payable ability not only in Serbia, but also in the whole world. Thus, the National Bank of Serbia as an institution shows that the state and citizens of Serbia are above all. This should be appreciated, as should be appreciated, that this year, thanks to the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, inflation will be to a lesser extent than we have provided for in the Budget Law. I admit that I cannot participate in such a kind of compromise, that even in today's trade or in today's guesses, someone sought the post of governor of the National Bank to agree to vote for such constitutional law. It's proof that there's politics, that there's what's not in line with some of our standards of behavior, that first we have to worry about the state and the citizens, not about certain chairs and chairs, which one speaker here mentioned, I don't know why, I guess, they're in his head. I can't tell you that I feel comfortable today in the Assembly, because it's not easy to be against when the contract has fallen most of the time. It is not easy to be against, but the parliamentary group has decided to stick to principle, without such trade and guessing. And let's tell you: if you accept the amendments to the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, we will certainly accept constitutional law in general. I think we have done a serious job, but at the end of the whole job, we should show consistency to the end, principle, endurance, justice, one good behavior in the Serbian Parliament itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29644	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Replica was requested by MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought I was making a little joke and that, not rudely, I'm making fun of everything my predecessor said, but it doesn't make any sense in everything the representatives of that encrypted political group say. Serbia's citizens don't take it very seriously anyway because they know this is their last session. To the great joy of the citizens of Serbia, and unfortunately for us, they will no longer entertain us. We won't be able to laugh from the scene anymore because of their statements, words, speeches. The G17 plus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will no longer come, except for the open door. We'll keep that open-door institute just so you can stop by the Assembly again, see how much nicer it is tomorrow than it is today. You say there's a problem in fear, so someone can't go to the election. It's true, Mr. Albianic, we've been horrified by you political bats and we're just worried about how much you're going to beat us. Because you are one great force, one miracle, and only when you step on your wallet, and as far as the voices of the people are concerned, you are nowhere to be found. I expect Serbian citizens to tell you nicely, much would be 4.2% for you. To give you 0.1 to 0.2 - this is the right measure for G17 plus, and never to distract citizens of Serbia and our people again. You say and threaten the representatives of the SRS. First they threaten some of the other political parties, and then the finance minister says recently: "We will fight radicals with all available means and all funds are allowed." Two days later, they used guns and guns to beat children aged 18 and 19, activists of the SRS, who they even said were from Surcin, Zemun, and in the end, none of them turned out to be from Zemun and Surcin. That's what you do when you're dealing with liars. Their great protectors are the great Democrats, the famous erudite called "Mr. Keks". But that Mr. Albianic doesn't worry. I saw that Mr. Dinkic understood all this. He scared us with that threat. We took it very seriously and we will try to protect the members and supporters of the SRS. That's what Mr. Keks should know about in the future, and they'll be responsible for what he's done in the past. But let me tell Mr. Albianic something, because I think he saw it, too. So, his president, the finance minister, showed up at the billboard, because that old painting where they made him look so much better, it didn't work out, so now he changed that picture. I didn't go out because of that painting, it says on that billboard: expertise in front of politics. He knows Dinkic has failed in politics, so now if anyone can sell the profession. That was true of Mr. Albianic as well. What you were in politics -- you were, go back to elementary school, teach your kids math, if anyone wants to listen to you more, and if anyone can. That policy is over. That you dreamed and thought you were lynching political opponents after October 5th, once forever it was over, Serbia changed and Serbia continues to change. Serbia has understood the situation of the global fraud that you have served on its plate and that is why you are so worried. That's why you're so worried about the moon and the axe. Your time is arousing because you know that from the big 4.2 you're going to fall to 2.2. They don't care about us, and they don't care about us because we're in astronomical numbers for you. We're thinking about whether it's going to be 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or who knows how much percent. Mr. Albianic, it's a little different, as a mathematician, you might as well know it and you should know it. In the end, the verdict will be given to all of us by the citizens of Serbia. No matter how much we lie to them, no matter how much we use and abuse our own media, no matter what we tell them, our people are smart. People are smart and you can't fool them. They know and see those who wish them good and those who do not want them to. We don't participate in stores or contracts. I have no idea who could be governor of the National Bank. If that's what you mean by DSS and DSS, then tell them. But it's an account without innkeepers, because the next government will not be made by both DS and DSS, and you will not be the Assembly except when the day is open, but by Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29646	Thank you. I ask that we refrain from savagery for each other's expertise, especially when we're talking about numbers. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Snezana Plassic, deputy president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, appears. Here you go, Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29647	Thank you. I really have to answer this, as far as G17 plus no one has to worry about us coming in here through the open door, through visiting day, or we're going to be in parliament. We'll definitely be in parliament. Don't worry about it, and that's why, among other things, we want Serbia's elections as soon as possible. Because we think Serbia needs a new stable government, of course, in which it will also participate G17 plus. As far as the answer to the question of expertise is concerned, this question is very simple for us. We have entered politics as experts and fortunately we have a place to go back, unlike many others who have never had their own interests, so politics is their only way out. G17 plus went into politics to help Serbia find a way out of the situation in 2000, dealing with its profession and affirming the principles of profession and professional standards. Our results are excellent precisely because we are experts in the areas we have dealt with, and in politics we have dealt mainly with what we know well. As far as the results and what you're talking about, I'm a mathematician, of course, but I can count to 50. He's talking about someone having 50%, and someone's having a breakthrough in practice shows quite, unfortunately, a different face. It's nice to talk and it can be heard by those who don't know the facts. I remind you that the results are not in words, nor are they in some estimates of public opinion researchers -- the results are where elections take place, in the field, in the local or parliamentary elections. I must, of course, remind you of the almost held elections in a city that is not big, it is Leskovac, and I will have to remind you that G17 plus received 11% of the support of Leskovec citizens and that the Serbian Radical Party received 18% or 19% of the support. The difference is about 8%, and we'll give you that. I congratulate you on having 8% more than G17 plus, but that's where your story ends. So it's not a 50% difference, it's not a marginal party, it's a strong party that won 11% of the support. Do you want to talk about what happened in the presidential election? As for the gentleman you mentioned, he has nothing to do with G17 plus, and we really don't know who it is, which is the nickname. There is documentation on who is waving guns in Serbia, there are photos of whose party presidents waving guns in front of students. G17 plus never held a gun, but he's got his waist and we don't need guns. So, as far as Leskovec and what you're talking about -- that citizens know best -- that's true. Citizens know best, they have rewarded the profession and efforts to bring Leskovac into Europe and with a huge difference democratic candidate, the joint candidate G17 plus and DS, has beaten your candidate up to his feet - these are facts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29648	Thank you, Mrs. Stojanović-Plasic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica. I'm asking you for a moment, just to say something, or I'm calling on everyone to think about it, because there are a lot of issues that we could talk about tonight, but I remind you again -- why we're gathered here tonight. Here you are, Mr. Vukic, a replica of the exhibition by Ms. Snezana Stojanović-Plasic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suppose you're right, because I didn't follow the voice so closely where it was and how it was, but we always respect the will of the people. Still, I'll try to answer everything you've said. You say you didn't use guns, you didn't. You're modern, because you used machines, machines and kalashnikovs and then you broke into the People's Bank, with socks on your head. Shame on you, you're talking about guns. [[Applause radically.]] You are talking about Vojislav Seselj, the president of the Serbian Radical Party, who has been detained for four years for verbal delinquency, torture and torture. You're not ashamed of his children and his family to talk like that. He raised his gun in self-defense, when he was attacked by stones and all kinds of things, but he didn't shoot and hit anyone, unlike your bandit, Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, who, with Kalashnikov, broke into the National Bank, with a black sock on his head. Otherwise, more often, I don't say for you personally, but for the management of G17 plus, you put a sock on your head than we do on our feet. [[Applause radically.]] These people need to tell us something about Serbia today. You tell us about chauvinism, so you're the biggest chauvinists. You are hanging out with the Ustasha party's follower Ante Pavelic Anto Djapic, not us. You are the worst chauvinists in the state of Serbia. [[Applause radically.]] You're threatening us a little bit. It's funny, in Pančev, your committee is asking you to cremate all Roma and Jews - it's a democratic and European policy. You bring these to Leskovec in Europe by the fact that your martyr is drunk every night. One night they find him, they take the neighbors, and the other night they're family, and you bring him into the "Europe" bar. Now they will establish two cafes that will be named "Europe" in Leskovac. You should be ashamed not to go out for a pay phone. You've made the people sick in the past. Don't worry, I'm telling you now, we have 9%, and you have 90% of the votes, and I'm 100% sure of that, I just don't know which force will forbid you from entering this door in the future. What you say has helped your profession, whoever pleases God, do not help our people and this land again. It'll be our best shot, and if nothing, we'll be much better off than today. Just get rid of us for this kind of help and support. Say hello to Mr. Keks, and I welcome the representatives of the government who didn't arrest that criminal, but some have paid money in two weeks of newspapers to announce that Keks didn't have a gun, but a cell phone. Okay, we'll take that as well. Cookie beat him on his cell phone. Just please, we will always and in every place beg our people not to respond to your provocations. Serbian radicals will always call for peace and order. Just don't whine, for God's sakes, for a bucket of spilled glue or I don't know what, because we don't complain that you're sending the beatings to Ubba, a certain Radoj Lukić, also with a gun, to win the election, etc. Just don't complain and don't make any statements after that. We won't complain, the police wouldn't protect our people and they wouldn't arrest Keks. She just brought him in and then let him go, because Mr. Keks is a big Democrats and a European. And now you'll hear why this gentleman has become such a significant beating. It's important for constitutional law and you'll hear why. This Mr. Keks has been promised by those who don't leave the "Europe" pub, dead drunk every night, to perform all and all kinds of security in Leskovac municipality, with their bandits and criminals. I'm telling you now, after the election, Mr. Keks, along with his bandits, goes up, along with many who robbed 18m euros at the airport, who robbed Cementar Popovac and who robbed Serbian citizens. Criminals in prison, and freedom to Vojislav Seselj, the one you attack. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29650	Snow White Stojanović-Plasic, please. You'll get the word, the lady has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29651	So it sounds interesting when you want to cover the facts with a broad and extensive speech. But it sounds inconclusive. So here we were talking about the election results and who was carrying the guns and who wasn't wearing them. The story of socks and machines has long become funny to Serbian citizens. But no problem, whenever it takes 10 years to find a photograph of Mladjan Dinkic with long pipes, please, gentlemen, bring it in and show it to the public of Serbia. Such a photograph of your president exists and that's what I was talking about. Everything else is the domain of insinuation. It's also the domain of insinuation and the story of Mr. Cookies or whatever you call him, obviously you know him, I don't know him. The election story in Leskovac is what it is, the results are what they are. I really don't think you should insult the huge percentage of Leskovec citizens who supported their new president by talking about some kind of innuendo that really sounds ugly. The fact is that it's a man of high professional reputation, the people of Leskovec recognized it, and we as politicians should really respect it. As for the election results, the G17 plus party won exactly 8% less than radicals. Let's move on, in the parliamentary elections, we'll certainly be closer. I hope we win a lot more than we won in Leskovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29652	Replica, here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29653	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here are some facts about the results. Since there were many lies and frauds, namely the Serbian Radical Party in the local elections in Leskovic, which took place shortly before the end of the presidential election, where Tomislav Nikolic beat Dragoljub Micunovic, won nine parliamentary seats and was the fifth in power. Now the Serbian Radical Party is the first in power in Leskovac, a convincing first. The mayoral candidate was the first, and then not only the two parties that were joined in the first round joined the others. Now I'm telling you, the difference is minimal, except for the big difference in morale, there's a huge difference in morale, because your morals and Mr. Keeks' morals are such that they can't even comment, Mr. Sutanovac. That's one mil, you and Mr. Keks are the image and opportunity of the Democratic Party. It's the face and looks of the Democratic Party. Shule pendrek and Mr. Keks. It will be a dangerous fight with Jocic, but let's continue with the election results. In all municipalities the biggest progress is recorded by the Serbian Radical Party, but you will not tell what the earlier results of the local elections were. That's your problem. I don't mind, and we recognize every will of the citizens. We've confessed now, as we always will. Although it was possible to make remarks and to go to cancel out three, four, five, ten polling stations, we didn't want any. You will see in a very short time what the citizens of Leskovec will say about the local government. Right after that, I expected you to commend both the Jablani County and Leskovac for going to the referendum. To tell you the truth, it's the district where most people went to the constitutional referendum. These are people who have shown maturity, seriousness. But you are not interested in the state of Serbia, you are not interested in the citizens of Serbia. You're only interested in something that's against the Serbian Radical Party. You're talking about photos. Vojislav Seselj did it publicly because he was publicly attacked because he has nothing to hide from anyone. Criminals under cover of darkness and black socks are hiding, of course, that you can't photograph. There are criminal charges of three people from the National Bank's security, three people signed a criminal report, at the most difficult times when they knew that their lives were at stake because of it, when they knew that the question was whether their children would arrive at kindergarten or school tomorrow, when against the great criminal, Mladjan Dinkic, they signed it. You see, in that they differ, dangerous criminals are like that, we know how dangerous the criminal Mladjan Dinkic is. You don't have to worry, as soon as the elections are over, when there's a change of executive power, everything will come to its place and everyone will face justice. Among others, Mladjan Dinkic and Mr. Keks, and justice will be served and Serbia free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29654	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sasa Vitosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29655	Dear Chairman, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure because I really do not only hurt the dignity of the National House, the National Assembly and the People's MPs, the G17 Plus party, but I truly firmly believe that the citizens of Serbia are offended as well. The rhetoric heard from the Serbian Radical Party's mouth is creepy. I really can't believe it, or they're in the virtual world, and they probably are, they created a virtual world by being in opposition all these years, so they forgot what was going on in the '90s when they were mentally involved in power. It's not hygienic that in front of the cameras of Serbian citizens, come on, we're used to it here, because we've been listening to this rhetoric for years. I have to make a move, just now Alexander Vukic said that they did everything they could to get this assembly of parliament to adopt all these laws and do the work that was done. Do you think the people don't see what you've been doing with your trillions of meaningless amendments that you've endured? Do you really think the people are blind, do you really think the citizens of Serbia don't remember in 1999, hyperinflation? And you're talking about the National Bank. When Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was elected governor of the National Bank in this National Assembly, a pardon in the Federal Assembly, but in this building of the then Federal Assembly, he found $150m in foreign reserves. Of those 150 million dollars, $50 million was ready, with signed warrants, to pay some company in China for the drugs you imported, because you were sitting in the federal and republican government at the time. Today, foreign reserves are 10 billion euros. That's how Mladjan Dinkic is a criminal. Our party president lives in 56 squares. How many squares do your party executives live in? It can't be measured by squares, the apartments where your executives live are measured by the aris. I can't believe you think Serbian citizens forgot that in a bottle of coke, at the time you ruled, it wasn't coke, it was gasoline. You mean, when you see pictures like that today, it's some kind of juice, it's been sold gasoline. My cousin, who stood up in 2000, and the first time she went to a gas station with a manna, asked me, "Uncle, what are we doing here?" I said, we're here to pour gas. People forgot that gasoline was poured in bottles. Well, gentlemen, you've ruined Lotto. You've ruined the game of luck, I can't imagine the strength of the mind it takes for someone, staying in power, to ruin Lotto. It's absurd. We pride ourselves on our party president holding a guitar instead of a gun, and holding a pen. Because people recognize what it means... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time)... chauvinism spoken over the past few years. You're not giving up on your chauvinistic ideas. Why didn't your candidate win Leskovac? Because directly from his mouth he placed chauvinist ideas on the vice president of our party, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, which is why he remained hated, so you too will be hated. Is that what you want for Serbia? You've shown yourself, gentlemen. Don't worry about how we're going to run the country, because we have results, and you're ashamed of your results, so you're afraid... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time)... to go to the election. That's why your mouth is full of compromises, your mouth is full of Kosovo. Alexander Vukic cannot love Kosovo more than I do, I was born in Prizren. All my relatives escaped from Prizren. Did we sign and release foreign troops to Kosovo? Are we? Great, charge us with that, too. You've accused us all, it's all our fault, no problem. We don't live in a virtual world, we live in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29656	Mr. Todorovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29657	Mr. Chairman, yesterday, during the declaration of the Constitution, I was in the ranks of the guests of the video and director of the Vuk Bojovic Zoo. I see that on that occasion he even brought a camera, that the painting, probably, of those who escaped as his protégés, and one of them you had a chance to see behind this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29658	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try in a serious way to respond to what the predecessor was talking about. I don't have to say "distant" or say, as soon as some uncle remembered, he got a little excited, started talking louder and yelling from the pay phone, I don't know why he's nervous. Are you talking about some aris? At the most expensive location, in the world's largest cities, in hundreds of hectares, Mladjan Dinkic can have, but he now has, is estimated, between 50m and 60m euros in savings, only from commissions he took. In order not to laugh, what there are papers for, you took, not in Prizren, but in Curug, a private firm, from your government representative, 14.5 million, Mr Vitosevic, shame on you. Shame on you to say something to someone. Learn, this is a replica. But you do your job, whatever you want, whatever you want, make up about the SRS whatever you want. You're talking about hyperinflation. The only one who criticized the SPS at the time was the SRS, and we published the book, "What robs the left, doesn't know the right." We have formed survey committees for Jezda and Dafina and the first to do a serious job on this matter. We were never in power at the time of hyperinflation, you're making it up. You're making everything up. Bogdanovic, this bridge hasn't appeared yet, don't throw it away. He's drawing a man of imaginary bridges and now he's starting to throw himself out of place. So, don't make it up, and your morale is like that, not your personal one, I don't want to discuss it with you personally, I see you have some sort of Alexander Wolf complex, you have some kind of problem. There's something else I need to tell you. You from G17 plus might be the strongest party in the upcoming elections, hard for Serbia, I think. You think Serbia will be great. It's your right. But don't speak lies from this place or hyperinflation, I don't know about cokes like that or cousins or uncles, because MladjanDinkic is like an uncle, and he was asked by some niece. Did you all go to class - uncle and niece, so everyone gave you the example, so his niece told him that when the radicals came, there would be no Zare and what else in Belgrade or Novi Sad. Let me remind you, the radicals opened the Zara in Novi Sad, the first Zara in Serbia to open radicals, not G17 plus, and that you know. And to inform your niece, and to inform your uncle, that he no longer lies to the people, and we will beat you anyway. Please, as far as we're concerned, we can do this, we're happy to beat them, to remind the people of everything they've done, but I think we're here tonight for constitutional law. If they didn't, and they said they didn't, let them say. If you want to continue, we can do it by morning. But I'm warning you, I want to tell you that there are serious and responsible people here. But don't worry, we won't deny you an answer. I think you've been walking around barefoot before, make sure you don't get any worse. So sit in place, vote as you are ordered to vote, against Serbia and tonight, and then let the people say who is for Serbia and who is against Serbia. The citizens will bring that grade infallibly and then you will see your place, and we will see our place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29660	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29661	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. Thank you for confirming that I'm beautiful both in the picture and like this. But some other things aren't pretty, which is that we've forgotten each other a little bit. I wasn't in the O.R., because all day long, we've talked about it in front of cameras and confirmed, all day long, we've been trying, respecting each and every one of you who participated in the consultations, respecting the interests of your party, and respecting our understanding and understanding, to come up with a harmonised proposal, which is necessary, in order to be declared constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution, to vote for it by two-thirds of the MPs. We arrived at 18.45 hours until a clear agreement that all parties had given in a little bit, some silence, but had reached an agreement. I have now come to the Rules of Procedure to remind you that I called this session on the Rules of Procedure, Article 114a and 114b, in order to obtain conditions for the declaration of the Constitution, which were confirmed by the citizens of Serbia, and we did so yesterday, and today to pass and declare the law on the implementation of the Constitution, so that, in accordance with the will of the citizens, the unanimous position of all the MPs who attended the sittings, 242 MPs, on 30 September of this year, we would allow this Constitution to be implemented, so that, through the implementation of that constitution, and through elections, which my conversators today so much I understand them, and I ask them to understand me, because in these elections I did not participate, so I only talked about the members of the law, but in order for all of this to happen, it is necessary to continue the debate, that they would start to carry out the constitution, so that they would want to be held on the basis of the other citizens, and to be able to defend themselves, and to defend themselves, and to make themselves, in order that they, the other citizens, the right, and the right, and the rules. Let the citizens get into that situation. Please, come back to the Rules of Procedure, the subject we've gathered for tonight. Thank you very much for understanding, and I deeply believe that you will listen to the voice of a tired man like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29662	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Sasa Vitošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29663	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly, Mr Markovic, for trying to put the subject back on the agenda for almost three years now. Unfortunately, in most cases, he didn't do it, not because G17 plus MPs G17 plus want, as he says, to fight. No, but we really can't keep our mouths shut, and we've been silent all this time, so this assembly can pass laws, to build the institutions of this country, to make the economy and the citizens better. There's a time when we can't really keep our mouths shut anymore, for someone three years to call us criminals, thieves, to tell us how we, when we stop on the wallet, only then do we see what's going on in Serbia. We can't, because we don't think it's normal for Serbian citizens to listen to the same order from the party standing on my right. He's talking about a loan I got through my private firm. Mr. Wolf, you've formed a commission to investigate the whole case. Read the commission's report. If you think the company can't take credit through the bank, then I don't understand. I ask the MPs of the SRS, how many of you have been here since 2000 to raise a loan or take goods on a lease in the bank? We're nobody. ) And I ask the citizens of Serbia who managed to raise a loan in a bank before 2000 or buy the goods on a lease? Let them assess whether it's normal or abnormal. Please don't tell lies after this pay phone, because Sasa Vitorovic didn't get any credit from the Republic of Serbia. It's a complete lie. You explain to Serbian citizens how you bought apartments when there was no credit in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29664	Mr. Wolfie, you have your word, but I'm really asking you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29665	What's running away? Usually when someone says something and we exchange punches, of course, politically, then it seems to me, gentlemen, that you listen to what the opponent thinks, so you respond again. I think that we in the SRS, Mr. Mikhailovich, I think you'll admit, we've never run away from it, we've always given our political opponents an opportunity and responded to what they said. There were no words here about what was received from a bank, but what was obtained from the Ministry of Ivana Dulic-Markovic. It has nothing to do with the bank, as far as I know, but it has to do with interest, as it has to do with farmers from the village of Lukicevo and others, in Novi Slankamen, etc., who accidentally join G 17 plus, so for free they get a huge land for use without giving anything to the state in return, but it's enough that they're members of G17 plus. In doing so, other couples and peasants suffer Serbia, cannot survive, cannot feed cattle, can't coerce their fields, can't get money for what they did in the previous year. I don't have any problem with that. You say there's a problem with Serbian radicals all the time. Guys, we've been in the opposition for over six years, only us. If you had found anything against Serbian radicals, you wouldn't have arrested us, you would have killed us long ago. But you're not, you're just making up lies. Do you mind who 61m2 is because everyone else paid? Is that your problem? All right, I can accept that, but I can't accept the fact that those who stole and robbed, those who bought ficus, state money, 45,000 dinars, a 750 dinar coffeespoon, those who robbed 18m euros at the airport, in millions of euros of our cements, in millions of euros of NIS, who destroyed and robbed Serbia's banking system; about the sugars and other factories that worked in this country, that you're telling someone about it, we'll never accept it, and Serbia will never accept it. Serbia wants to end the past once and for all, and only the past you do, and we will only do the small part, how much the competent state authorities have to deal with. And we'll deal with the future, because we have to think about which schools our children are going to go to, what bread factories they're going to make, what we're going to leave to our generations. That's what we're different about. You talk about the past, say it's our fault for Kosovo, and we're the only ones who voted against the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan, to remind you. All parties to the future DOS then supported the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan and the Kumanski Agreement. We were the only ones against it. You don't remember that either. What do I do to you? But there are short legs in a lie, and then some run faster and better from the O.R. So faster and better, and get them off the political scene. If they do not turn aside themselves, for God's sake, the people will put them away, you will see them, and on January 21st.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29666	Here's a word for the People's Messenger, Momcilo Spasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29667	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of Parliament, the chairman, we have been listening for more than an hour to the moral tyranny of false moral people, who lecture us on honor, honesty, innocence. You're saying that if we had any evidence against Serbian radicals they would have been long ago, not to use... (Lowers from the O.R.: which member of the Rules of Procedure? I'll tell you later. You're asking if we have anything to say about honesty and honor of radicals. Here, I'll tell you. A member of the government by 2000, deputy president of the state union's parliament, an SRS MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, now the head of the Security Service Commission in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, by the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, has launched a request to launch a criminal case against Mr Dragan Todorovic, suspected that, as minister of traffic in the government of the Republic of Serbia in 1998 to 1999, he has damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by 26.5 million. Of the strictly dedicated funds, means money intended to maintain the safety of rail traffic regularly, he bought 10 people's apartments and spent 10,826,000 dinars at the Zeleturs catering facilities for friends on behalf of the team's costs. Only 16 million he spent on so-called. Staff apartments. Otherwise, Mr. Todorovic has a nice criminal record. In 1991, he was sentenced to three months in prison for the crime of counterfeiting and abuse of authority in the economy. That same year, he was sentenced to jail for causing a car accident with fatalities. So much for Mr. Todorovic. Next, Bozidar Vucurovic, MP of the Serbian Radical Party in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29668	Sir, I'll save you, please, you've exceeded your time, and you're not even speaking in terms of the agenda. Bring your speech to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29669	There are more of these demands here for the initiation of criminal proceedings than municipal, then public prosecutors and authorities. Why isn't it running? They're all protected by parliamentary immunity. MP immunity serves them to protect themselves from justice. So I ask you no longer to talk about false morality and not to give us false moral sermons, because once your mandates are over, most of you will probably end up in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29670	National MP Dragan Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must apologize to Vuk Boyovic. He called me and said he didn't come for that reason I said, because the ones sitting here aren't at his place should be in jail. So much for that previous story. Now I'm gonna take a little more of your time. I'm going to have to take up more of your time because there are people, there's a time when they think everything's allowed, when they think it's possible to use all the means against a political opponent to eliminate him from a political scene. The bigger the lie and the more meaningless the lie is, the more they think their act is justified. In 2003, at a time when the DOS began to fall into affairs, under problems that were insurmountable, and when it was already clear that they would have to come down from the political scene, to distract attention from the country's collapse, they began to raise criminal charges and to the greatest extent against members of the Serbian Radical Party. They hired a team of retired economic profession officers, who went through the ministries, to seek possibly some evidence of anything that would allow criminal charges to be filed in the ministries in which Serbian radicals were located. They found what the court, to tell you the end, rejected. But at that time, on December 3, 2003, a public television daily reported that a criminal report against me and some of the Serbian Radical Party ministers was filed, and on December 4th, the criminal charges came to the prosecution. How is it possible for the state's radio television to get that criminal record, and that the D.A.'s office won't get it until the next day? Because politics has abused all its power to harm its political opponent. It wasn't very small for them. They found a deputy public prosecutor, who was willing to file that criminal charges, although he had no elements for her, absolutely no elements. They tried and prepared that here, in this parliament, by suspending the mandate of a representative of the Serbian Radical Party. They've prepared television teams to do it on their way out of the Assembly. This is where the immunity debate was being held. There are MPs who attended that session. When I voted, I told them not to call for immunity, that I didn't need immunity. The first Serbian delegation voted. There were 46 votes. One of those voices was mine, too. If it was 45, they wouldn't have taken my immunity. Montenegrin MPs, and your coalition partners at the time, did not want to vote to take immunity, because they made it clear and said it was a political showdown and that they would not participate. But it wasn't the end. Since they have failed to remove immunity, they have occasionally continued to place this lie in public. The court has hired an expert. I've got all the papers. I'm sorry we moved into this room, so I can't show you that, but I'll show you. The economic profession expert took the full indictment into consideration, examined all documents and in 2005 sent it to the public prosecutor's office, i.e. the court of information that Dragan Todorovic, Ratko Marcetic and Zivorad Maksimovic, director of the Belgrade Railway, are not responsible for any of the charges. Not one point at a time! So Ratko Marcetic and Zivorad Maksimovic received a solution from the court in March to suspend the investigation because there are no facts listed in the criminal report.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29672	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29673	Hold on a second. I've been listening to these for a long time. I got a notice, not a solution, sent a little over a month and a half ago. But, you see, those who lie to you, one of them almost took their place as party president, Ceda Antic. When I filed a complaint, I called him and asked him if he was as a man, who publicly expressed his views, facts, etc., behind it. He said he was standing there and he'd stay tight with what he said. Then I just asked him if you'd like to give me your address to file a lie suit that you told at The Flash. For this gentleman, it will be simpler for me, since there is an address here, because Ceda Antić did not want to give his own address for a living, so I invite him, among other things, to send the address tonight, to prove before the court what he and I brought to the paper, and this MP before me after this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29674	Before I give you my word, Mr. Wolfie, please try to break this atmosphere and move on to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29675	We're always for a good atmosphere, but this liar runs away too. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what kind of tactics they don't know. Lie and run, is that it? Mr. Mihajlovic, I must warn you, did you hear, in one sentence, say what Mr. Todorovic said, did you hear that? So what they lied about, there's a solution to suspending the procedure. So, you liars, don't make it up anymore, because everything you could in the country of Serbia you stole and robbed. The only thing you've ever done is figure out something about Serbian radicals. I would never justify myself to you this much, but a man is why they lie on that B92 TV with the same team, so when he tells them he's gonna sue them, they take it away. Free of you and judgments, free of any act, free of you of anything; for you have your own to devise and to lie about what is your will. I don't have any problem with that. I suggest you do the next thing. You come to power again, you win the election convincingly - science fiction. As if it wasn't a joke, consider it to be a serious hypothetical situation. You win the election, come to power, come who please God, for all we've done, let us go to prison. I don't promise you that, because I'm not going to threaten you, I'm not telling you anything, I'm just telling you that the competent state authorities are going to do their job, and I'm afraid orders of leadership, both of yours and some of the other parties, will be half-empty. Do not take this as a threat but as a good wish for the citizens of Serbia. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that those who robbed them must end up behind bars and take responsibility for such cases once and for all, not for thieves to protect the thieves. Our obligation, following the next elections, will be to break the chain of thieving and crime you have brought into the country since 2000. There have been before, but at that time it was brought to a large state door, where the mafia managed Serbia, and Serbia did not fight the mafia. It's our job to beat the mob, to break that thieving chain and not to let you treat honest and honest people in this way, as a proud government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29676	Replica, MP of the people Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29677	G17 plus is ready to contribute to every constructive discussion, and in that sense we will not continue to conduct this pointless debate even tonight. However, it is really inadmissible, I just want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, with which the Serbian Radical Party speaks again, as always: liars, thieves, the story of the zoo. So that language of the lowest form of communication, not to call it a real name because it's really not our level, is what the Serbian Radical Party is serving. We, ladies and gentlemen, have suffered patiently for years in the congregation. Why? Because we knew that Serbia's interests were above each party's interests and that Serbia's interests were far ahead of our party's interests. It was important to adopt the laws we adopted. It was important to implement all the reforms we've implemented. Once the citizens of Serbia liked it, they didn't like it. They used to listen to a language like this, they used to get sick of it. We knew there was a goal, that this goal was to implement reforms in Serbia. We've been through all this. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what's come to an end. The G17 plus won't take it anymore. The stories of the mob, the prisons, the false charges of G17 plus will no longer stand. Here's how the Serbian Radical Party reacts when you confront it with evidence. They don't have any proof of what they're saying. The G17 plus future will be happy to face Serbian citizens with the truth and evidence of the Serbian Radical Party. Not one, many of their MPs have convictions for crimes, we will prove it when we bring the papers. But such judgments exist. So, please, let's talk about facts. When faced with facts, then they are drawn to various political accusations, called for immunity, etc. Of course, this is why procedures are being suspended, because they have the right to call for immunity, because Serbian citizens have given them the right to move behind parliamentary immunity, because they are people who, in most cases, have no profession or profession, have only one immunity behind them, behind whom they are protecting themselves because of everything they have done before. This will no longer happen in Serbia. G17 plus will no longer stand behind it at any cost. We'll show Serbia who's who in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29678	Mr. Wolfie, I'll give you my word, but I'm asking you again to stop this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit I was a little scared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29680	Mr. Wolfie, please help me get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29681	I'll help you, Mr. Mikhailovich. (President: Thank you. I'm really a little scared. I've been through a lot. I've got to hand it to you. Em Dinkic says "with all means", I know how dangerous he is yet from those machine guns and kalashnikovs, and I'm counting now and the hoods and cannons are going to be using, it's only more than that, I don't know what else, and the mortars might be; so now you're threatening, and you haven't shown the verdict yet. You're talking about something I don't know what, and you don't show the verdict. Where's your verdict? You're not ashamed of yourself. You attacked people here, you say they don't have a profession, they don't know what they're doing. What you're waving at with your hands, what you mean by that. This is where the people host. There are a lot of honest people here, from farmers to lawyers, economists, doctors, university professors. You say they don't have a profession. You thought of me? I finished law school, so I have a profession. What's this about? What's your problem? You want me to tell you what your problem is? Your problem is that you all have to go out for this pay phone tonight because you're never going to show up for this pay phone again. That's your key problem. You only have pictures to look at and talk to your kids, see, and your uncle to tell his cousin how you used to talk from this pay phone, until you had a fight with radicals. Then you were no longer in the Assembly. Then some other institutions were filled with G17 plus members. I don't know what you yell every time you go out for a pay phone. Whoever shows up from you, whoever you're on, I won't say, "Don't tell me anything about Serbian again." It's like an ugly word when someone tells you about the most terrible accusation you make here. It wasn't an immunity procedure, it was a lack of evidence, as it is said, because there was no crime. There is no crime, if you understand what it means, the lawyers understand. But that's what experts, I reckon, understand. However, let me tell you, only you will do your job will be criminal charges that prosecutors will adopt in Leskovac in the future, which will also be discussed. Slowly, folks, you've been opening up everything that comes to your mind for seven years, and lying and making it up. Wait, it only takes us a month to bring order to Serbia, so you can see how you, what you did and how you robbed Serbia. So you can see the papers and the judgments. Because the judiciary will not be under political custody, but the judges will be ordered to judge by law, fair, fair, by the principles of justice and criminals to put behind bars. I thank you for giving us so many opportunities to say tonight what we think about the government in Serbia and those who are the worst in Serbia. [[Applause radically.]] It is good that you have shown your face to bad people, who are trying to destroy lives with ordinary and honorable people; and you have told these people here that they have no title, knowledge and interest; that you have offended most of Serbia's citizens. That is why I call on the citizens of Serbia, the ones for which we are engaged, because, unlike you, we are not engaged in this work in order to be ministers, directors and governors, but to bring some changes to the citizens of Serbia and our Serbia, that on January 21st, they just say what they think, that this is not difficult for them, both for you and for us. They will show you whose criminal records and everything else were correct, who they are, if you want to hear the voice of the people, above all else, and better people. For even people can see it by what you say, and by how you turn to people, how much attention you care about their interests. Once again to remind my uncle and niece, "Zara" in Novi Sad, they've opened up radicals, and we're not going to let G17 plus shut it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29682	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I apologize, the president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party-Boris Tadic, MP Mr Petrovic, later called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29683	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, tonight important things will happen in this assembly. The process of adoption of the Constitution ends. It is on the agenda to remind you, Mr. Chairman, all of your colleagues sitting in this assembly and Serbian citizens, constitutional law. It is not possible to transform into reality the Constitution, which was voted a few days ago, unless this constitutional law is passed today. But, as things stand, it is good that this is the last session of this call to the Serbian Parliament. It is good that six and a half million adults of this country will have a very quick opportunity to tell their political court about: - where Serbia should go, - which way this country should move, - will we be able to continue our approach to the European Union, - will those who are young and those who are less young soon have a chance to get out of Serbia without a visa, - will we, as a country, get the status of all countries in the white Schengen list, - will we join that status in which Macedonia and Croatia are also, - are we going to become an associated member of the European Union, - will we have the opportunity to get ten times as many subsidies in this country as we have today, and will be able to do so when we join the European Union funds, - are going to allow us to be so much behind those processes, which our neighbours, Romania and Bulgaria, on 1 January 2007, lead to full membership of the European Union. [[Applause]] We will have the opportunity and the Democratic Party is asking Serbia's citizens to enter a decisive fight against poverty in Serbia and to quickly lead the country into the European Union. It will be a decision that six and a half million adult citizens of the country will have the opportunity to make in a few weeks, very quickly, probably January 21st, 2007. I'll be back on the subject we're here for tonight. The question has been raised -- is it possible to leave Serbia without a law that needs to determine that the constitution, voted ten days ago, will enter into the country's legal and real life. Are we politically mature and responsible to leave Serbia without clear rules on -- which are applied by the constitution, which rules apply to the President of the Republic, which for parliament, which for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which for the Constitutional Court, for municipalities, cities. Is it possible to leave this country without answering that question? The Democratic Party's position is quite clear here. As we called on Serbian citizens to vote in favour of this constitution, because the constitution that Serbian citizens voted better than the constitution we had so far is better because we ended up with a political era, better because we entered a political and not just calendarly, in the 21st century, because it removed obstacles to this country towards the European Union, better because it removed obstacles to foreign investors to invest in this country, because it established the right of private property on city building land. Without investors in this country, there is no money that will create new jobs. And the Democratic Party is struggling for new jobs and those who are now employed have bigger profits. It is not possible if those who are able, which are investors, do not come to Serbia. And that's why it was important for this constitution to be brought in. It is also important that this constitution comes into force as soon as possible and not only formally and legally declare the highest legal act of this country, but it is important to establish rules, which will tell us clearly - what will happen to the Constitutional Court, when there will be elections, what will happen to our municipalities and cities. How can constitutional law be passed? By making two-thirds of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament have to vote for constitutional law. How was it possible to bring the Constitution? So half of the enrolled citizens, the full-time citizens of Serbia, were to vote for the constitution. There was no other way to create a political framework to get more than three and a half million people out, but if a political agreement was made. The Democratic Party is firmly convinced, as we spoke two months ago, I say and now, because it is true -- it has contributed to this country getting the highest legal act it has ever had. But the question has been raised whether the Serbian Parliament has the strength, whether it has the strength of this layer of people involved in politics in Serbia, to pass constitutional law. From the point of view of the Democratic Party, it was natural, normal and celery, for the citizens of Serbia the best, to have all elections right away. Our position is known to the public, we thought it should be organised before the new year of parliamentary elections, presidential elections, elections for local self-government, so for municipalities and cities, elections for the province of Vojvodina. And we said, "Please make an argument as to why it shouldn't be." It turns out that simply out of 250 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is not possible to provide two-thirds for such a constitutional law. Then we said, "Okay, what can you do?" What is now the fundamental difference whether the parliamentary elections will be on December 21st, December 24th, December 28th or be on January 21st. It is not and must not be a reason to deny the possibility for Serbian citizens to enter full capacity into one constitutional state and that this constitution actually takes effect. Of course, because there is no essential reason we will vote for this constitutional law, because it opens up the opportunity and the possibility for our country's citizens to say their political will very quickly in the elections. Many topics are open here, many things are spoken here, but there is a time ahead that will answer the question: will Serbia go towards the European Union and will Serbia go to a better life or not? The Democratic Party, and I will end it, will demand in these elections a mandate from the citizens of Serbia to move towards this better life, because there is no reason for Romania and Bulgaria to be ahead of us, there is no reason for Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to be ahead of us, there is no reason why one nation, which has the power to make its country and its state, to maintain one historical people, and we are all citizens who, in the political sense of that word, do not enter the civilization and political age in which our entire continent is located, to move towards a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29684	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29685	I must say that I am very pleased, because we are in the day and in this House who will certainly pass the constitutional law tonight, which is the crown of the constitutional process, and will adopt it with a much greater number of MPs than those two-thirds. That's a great thing. In this way, one procedure that proved Serbia's maturity on two levels is crowned. The maturity of political parties, important political parties in Serbia, without which there will obviously be no political life for the country in the next decade and perhaps longer. In another way, he showed maturity and the citizens of Serbia themselves, who, thanks to a very important consensus on this matter, recognized to a degree that was sufficient, according to the prescribed extent to the then applicable Constitution, recognized this important moment and confirmed the Constitution in the referendum, so this, without any doubt, was a constitution with a very strong legitimacy. That's the path we had to choose, the way we had to choose how to solve this problem. We've chosen a difficult path and he's fortunately succeeded all of us. Not only is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing the processes of European integration and the processes of further building up of the institutions of our systems, but also because this process, in the manner and the time in which we live and at the moment we are, is expressed in the unquestionable will of Serbian citizens and all relevant and relevant political actors in Serbia, the uncompromising will to protect the state of Serbia and the elements of its substrate, such as its sovereignty on the whole of the territory, which means territorial integrity. It's an extremely important thing. Not because it is a principle, but because on the whole of Serbia's territory, including Kosovo and Metohija, live citizens of this country who expect help and protection from it. They do not expect their own state to give up the works of the territory they live in, not expect their fellow citizens to have that attitude, but expect help to be citizens of this country in the fullest sense, and to allow all those living in Serbia's territory to be. So this was an important voice in that sense. Why hide it, it's a very important thing and should be said openly. This was a very important thing for all of us, in the communication of our country and our citizens with an international environment, which we know that a good part of that environment will be some kind of arbiter in terms of the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. From that point of view, it was very important to send a positive message to important countries of the world, which are members of the Contact Group and which in some ways decide on the fate of this space. But if we say that the fate of this space should be decided only by others, and that we cannot or should not raise our voice and tell us what is on our hearts, which is why we have to defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity, then it's not worth anything to us. Happiness is for all of us what happened like this, and happiness is for the state and our citizens, whether it was someone who could recognize it or not at the moment, but it's a great deal of luck that most of them recognized it, that this was the only way and the right way for all of us. What do we have on the agenda today? Constitutional law. That, I said, is the final stage in the constitutional reform process. He has his very important function, to help the newly adopted Constitution apply. This means that it points to the ways in which the existing legislation will be adapted to the standards of the new Constitution and that it points to solutions in which and how the institutions of the system will be formed and how individual institutions will be chosen or appointed, i.e. state authorities in the process under the new Constitution. It's an extremely important thing, because without it, the new Constitution wouldn't have remained a dead letter on paper, but it would have gone to one stage of incredible torture that would have denied everything we've done so far. From the first moment I knew, when the Constitution was confirmed by Serbian citizens on the 29th evening, when we learned that the Constitution was confirmed by Serbian citizens, that we would have no problems with the adoption of constitutional law. What was happening in the meantime, what the Serbian citizens could hear from all of us, the discussions on topics that represent disputed places, that's something that's normal. Because the political system, the democratic political system, which is primarily based on the desire to protect the market economy as the basis of that system, and the better system than such a system of democratic pluralism, the world may not know, it may not be ideal, but there is no better, therefore, a system that is being protected here and precisely why the relevant parties of Serbia know and understand the reasons why they must find a compromise on today, in order for this law to be passed. The differences must exist, they had to be expressed, because political conflict is immeasurable to the political system. There are rare situations when you will see that this conflict does not exist. It must exist, the citizens of Serbia must know that it is an integral part of the democratic political system. This conflict must be expressed in different ways. He also expressed himself when we agreed on the text of the Constitution itself, so it took quite a while to reach agreement and compromise, because only on the basis of the compromise could this be brought out. Likewise with today's constitutional law, it is the result of a compromise, as only on the basis of the compromise could it be made. Clearly, the basis for that conflict exists. It exists in terms of what it is and how for which political party it is useful, it should be said openly, and all the reasons why we have talked about these days and about which we may not have agreed, are based on this very notorious fact, but we all knew and I knew that we would have a way of agreeing on it tonight. Because it certainly is very little important whether the elections will be 10 days sooner or later, whether a transitional solution or a change of a law will be related to the first session of parliament, the first session or the first regular session, whether a deadline is May 1st, May 10th or May 31st, for one of the actions that arises, it is all important for us to adopt constitutional law. The differences we're talking about here are important, they don't matter, but they can't be more important than the adoption of constitutional law. Therefore, I cannot do anything but express my satisfaction that the vast majority of MPs are ready to support the constitutional law tonight, not only because it will enable the application of the Constitution, as a prerequisite for systemic changes in the state and the ways of European integration, but also because it will make it easier for us to protect our people on the whole of our territory. In order for this not to happen which, for who knows which time, happened today that a man named Sapic Milorad was killed with three bullets in his head, it is known from whom in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, a man from the Yearbook at Kosovo Vitina, so that those people could be protected more easily the next day, and we must keep that in mind. It is certainly more than whether the elections are January 21st or 28th, whether they are December 23rd, when they are presidential and everything else. It's all very important, because when we've made a new constitution elections must be as soon as possible and at all levels as possible. And when possible, we gave the answer, the vast majority of MPs tonight gave that answer and we will have adopted constitutional law and removed a great dilemma. The rest remains for the next National Assembly calls, remains for other elected national representatives, other state authorities or persons who will be appointed to perform responsible functions in the state of Serbia. That's why I call upon you all to get our hands on this constitutional law, possibly unanimously.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29686	The word comes from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic we're talking about today certainly exceeds the framework of a pre-election campaign that has obviously already begun. I would like to remind once again that the SPS has supported the adoption of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia solely for the reason that the people of Serbia once again, unitedly and unanimously, should give their opinion on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, on defending state unity and on trying to defend Kosovo and Metohija in order to defend against imposing a solution to the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, which is constantly above our heads. I want to start by saying, the success of the referendum and the adoption of a new constitution is not the success of all political parties in Serbia. There are many political parties in this House who have worked openly against the referendum. There are those political parties who have publicly advocated the referendum and the adoption of the Constitution, all of which they have done to reduce turnout. There are also those political parties, even the Deputy Prime Minister, who sits next to Vojislav Kostunica, besides the Prime Minister, whose government submitted a proposal for a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which came out publicly with a proposal to boycott the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It exists only in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the G17 Plus party. Also, a statement by Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia, on the day of the referendum on voting in a referendum on the past or on the future, is absolutely counterproductive. It divides the people of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia must not share the citizens of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who voted for him and who doesn't, whether anyone thinks it was better in the past or better in the present or will be better somewhere in the future, the president of the Republic of Serbia must respect every citizen of Serbia. The invitation to go to the referendum to allegedly break with the past gave a clear result, ladies and gentlemen. It came out 50 percent and voted yes. The SRS and the SPS must have more than 40% of the polling bodies in Serbia. Then how many of your men went out to break up with the past? I think they broke up with you or threw you away in the past. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate, first of all, the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, the SRS, the DSS, the New Serbia and, of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia on the adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, I would like to say to everyone else that their hopes for a referendum will come to the fore that they will somehow accept Kosovo's independence, because apparently the people of Serbia are not interested in coming out and voting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. By the way, I know some of you feel uncomfortable here. It wasn't just you who broke into the People's Bank, you were also breaking into this National Assembly. You burned this congregation, carried water boilers and toilets, and, of course, pictures and chairs, not to speak. That, ladies and gentlemen, in the history of movement was called the Ludistic Movement, when workers thought their machines were wrong that they had nothing left to do, so they destroyed machines. You think your fault was the water boilers and toilets that you lost in the election for 10 years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are uncomfortable here in this room, but for the first time in this room, a session of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia has been held since this house was built. I would also like to say this: Alexander Karadjordjevic I built this building. His, what comes to him, grandson Alexander, heir to the so-called throne, did not go to the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, who lives in the state villa you gave him for use, did not go to a referendum to defend Serbia and the Serb people. Where are the monarchy supporters here? Where are the monarchy supporters here who say the Crown Prince is a uniter of the Serb people, of Serbian faith? The Crown Prince had some work abroad, couldn't vote in a referendum. It's not his job. Of course, he didn't vote because this is the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, and it's not the Kingdom of Serbia. It seems to me that the man who built this house and who lost his life in Marseilles wouldn't be proud, on the contrary, would be ashamed to see what his successor did. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, how did you react as state authorities to Montenegro's practically first recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Are you aware, Mr. Secretary Loncar, I call upon the representatives of the DS, who have the President of the Republic, as you, ladies and gentlemen, have responded to that act of the Republic of Montenegro? The Republic of Montenegro invited Ceku to visit as the head of its neighbour's government. The Republic of Montenegro has recognised Kosovo's independence. What did you do about it? Should we say thank you? Should we tell them I'm sorry? Have you taken any reciprocal measures? What would happen if Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic received a Serb leader from northern Montenegro and said he had received the head of neighbouring Republic of Serbia? What would the Republic of Montenegro do? She'd ask for the UN's help. How did you react? You said it wasn't a very smart move, that it was an amazing move. In international relations, ladies and gentlemen, there is only contradiction. Remember that Montenegro is no longer your position, it is our neighbouring country. Whose place it is, let it go to that place. But, please, as far as that goes, she's a neighbouring country. Therefore, reciprocity, the interruption of diplomatic relations with the state, if you want to defend the Serbian people. Otherwise, what will you have as a consequence? You will have as a consequence that for the first time in its history Montenegro will be on the side of the Cypriots, on the side of Muslims, on the side of Turks, Croats. And how will the Republic of Serbia react? Therefore, all those who believe that Serbia should lead a policy that will invest in neighbours is absolutely unprincipled. The Republic of Serbia should lead a policy to defend the Serb people living in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, in so-called Croatia. Serbia's Krajina, which will defend the Serb people living in Macedonia. That's what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says. Anyway, we've advocated, as an SPS, that elections be at the same time. All elections should be at the same time. Why are you afraid of all choices at the same time? Some seek only parliamentary ones, others seek parliamentary and presidential elections, and they do not want the province's elections, and they do not want local elections, etc. We therefore advocate all elections at the same time, both local and rural, and parliamentary and presidential elections. Apparently, you're talking... (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: I party elections. ) As far as party matters are concerned, it will be, but of course it is our business. Either way, it's not your candidates who win. It's ours. Since you're talking about the democratic traditions of this government, which you're talking about with democratic traditions here and your democratic structure. You're talking about reform. Are you aware that you are going to elections under the law proposed by the SRS in October 2000? You're going to the election according to Seselj's law and you're talking about you doing something for the last six years. I'm not saying that law is bad, but don't attack one party, and according to her law, you're going to vote. Why didn't you change the law? Who bothered you to change the law? Why didn't you pass the new law? You couldn't, you wouldn't have brought the Constitution if it wasn't for the SPS and the SRS, and you couldn't have done it yourself. That's true. So don't believe in yourself so much. The SPS will certainly be a political factor without which it will not be possible on Serbia's political scene in the coming period. Many of you who have been here in Parliament know that the SPS has called elections the way you do now, some of you would boycott those elections. They wouldn't participate in the election. Where's the fair and equal campaign? Where's the equality in the media? Where is it? What are you talking about? Look who can be a guest in certain media. You have both state and private media, you have state firms and tycoons. What are you talking about? Please, you only lack more people to have full power, but it will obviously be difficult to achieve, and therefore so much noise in this period. At the very end, the whole story of the December elections is in fact the story that Ahtisaari, Solana and some others expect a government to be formed after the next elections to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, such as Ceda Jovanovic. Ceda Jovanovic served as deputy prime minister in charge of co-operation with the EU. Looks like it's gonna be again. That's what Polt told you at the dinner you had at his place. You just forget that in Serbia, Polt, Solana, or Ahtisaari, the Serbian people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia decide. Therefore, I am sure that the new government of the Republic of Serbia will also be a government that will never sign Kosovo and Metohija's independence and be a government that will respect the will of the people expressed in this referendum. After all, since you are so close to the EU, here is an exceptional opportunity for you to arrest Ratko Mladic in these two months until the election. Let's see if you can arrest him in those two months. You'll say - it's not popular because of the election campaign. That's how you've been talking all these years. All these years you've been talking when he was at the stadiums, when he was at the pubs, at your facilities, while your people were defense ministers. Why didn't you catch him then? Now you remember when he became some condition for joining the EU. Besides, I don't know why you're so worried when the EU has decided to slow down the country's entry into this area. Ladies and gentlemen of the DS, friends and comrades, I'm the president of the parliamentary group and I'm entitled to 20 minutes. So, I know you might not be happy, that maybe you don't think we should even talk, you probably don't think we should even be here, you probably think we should have been anywhere but here, but you're wrong. You were wrong. Not only that, you'll be fooled a little more when the next election is over. The SPS will be a factor without which Serbia will not be able to make a political scene. You thought you solved the problem on October 5th. I think that this problem has returned to you as a boomerang, and that is why the SPS during this period has shown and confirmed itself as a responsible government factor. We supported the adoption of the Constitution along with other political parties. We also supported the adoption of this constitutional law, although there are many things in these various laws that are not in line with what the SAA wants, but we have come from the fact that the interest of the state is more important at this point than any party interest. In that sense, it would be very important that the election campaign does not endanger the state and national interests, because if we lose the state, we will not have any other political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29688	National MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica, president of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29689	Mr. Chairman, I have listened carefully to my predecessor's speech here and unfortunately I have not heard one single thing he has said as a view, attitude and plan of his political party. He listed government officials, current DS officials, people who were once in the DS. As far as I can tell, that's what the SPS program is all about. But neither is the time nor is the place. Of course, I don't want to pollute, and I wouldn't go out if two very rough and heavy things, which, of course, have no foothold in reality, were not said. One regarding the referendum's position and the intention of someone, that because the referendum would fail, would lead to the destabilising of political opportunities in the country, to make Serbia's position more difficult. The President of the Republic is doing everything in his power to keep whatever funds are available to this country, which is a diplomatic struggle, out of the interest of this country everything that is possible to preserve. The policy led by the president of the state, as well as the entire negotiating team, has, if I remember correctly, at least twice the support of this parliament, including the people whose representative here spoke for a moment. I don't think there's a need to say anything about this, but when you say that it is necessary to break diplomatic relations with the country where almost half the citizens who voted for it recently live in the same country as the country where we represent the national representatives, with Serbia, it is a supreme irresponsibility. To stop diplomatic relations with Montenegro, in which nearly half of those who have grown up have the right to vote, expressed their will to live together with this country, as it has been decades ago. But I understand that this convention, if I am well informed, of the parties from which my predecessor is, is one pre-election congressional speech. It may be the tribune, but it is not an opportunity for Serbia to get constitutional law, it is not an opportunity for the constitution to come into force. As I said, it's a good thing this is the last session of this House, one step at a time, but surely, the party whose representative here spoke will not sit in these benches after January 21st, because for Serbia a better life is important. It is important for Serbia that we take our fate into our own hands as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29690	Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29691	First of all, it's not right, Mr. Petrovic, you haven't spoken to me with your friend, so we're talking to the Socialist International, right? You're bigger leftists and communists than we are, we admit, except nobody in Serbia knows that. In the world you say you're socialists and left-handed, and here you run away from showing red roses, red. Why don't you play Internacional at your congresses? Why is your color blue-yellow and not red? You're the only lefties in the world as such, but that's your problem. Anyway, it's not a bad opportunity. This is a great opportunity to discuss all this stuff. Therefore, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic said and urged citizens to come to a referendum to break up with the past. How did they break up with the past? 52-53% voted for the new constitution. Of these 52%, at least 35% are members of the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. Where are your voters? I don't know how many of you there are, but I don't see that there's a lot of you in these authorities all over Serbia. Therefore, you ladies and gentlemen look where you are in power for how many people have gone to the referendum. Where you're strongest, there are at least people on the referendum. What does that confirm? It confirms that you boycotted the referendum and confirms that people did not want to listen to your call and the call was counterproductive. People didn't want to break up with the past like that. Besides, this constitution isn't breaking up with the past. You know that well. This constitution is a constitution of continuity with the past constitution. What makes him different from the last constitution? It differs in the manner of recalling the President of the Republic, differs in the way the constitution changes and differs by the definition of whether Serbia is a state of citizens or states of the Serbian people. This isn't the Constitution of discontinuity. This is the Constitution of continuity with the previous. After all, the man who wrote the previous constitution, Ratko Markovic, invited people to vote for the new constitution because it is based on his constitution that he wrote in 1990. As far as the Republic of Montenegro is concerned, I know that this may cause different kinds of emotions and feelings. You have to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you run this country, to run a state and run foreign policy, in such things you have to act like Englishmen in foreign politics. There's no constant love or enmity, there's only constant interests. What is the interest of the Republic of Serbia right now? It is an interest to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did the negotiators team conclude that it should end diplomatic relations with all states that recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence bilaterally? Is that what happened? Is that what you said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? And now that Montenegro does, which says Kosovo is a neighbouring state, it can't, because someone is originating in Montenegro. It's all right, I respect that, but you are the officials of the Republic of Serbia and you have an obligation to defend the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia, including the Serbs in Montenegro. That's not what Serbs in Montenegro do, anti-Serbian policies in Montenegro do. That is why I think that the views of the official Montenegro are for the first time in the history of Serbia-Montenegro's official relations anti-Serbian. That's what you have to react to. This isn't the first time. Milo Djukanovic was visiting Tirana, and here is Milos Aligrudic. Did Sali Berisha in the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly tell us in front of us that Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina support the independence of Cosmeta, was that so? Did someone deny it? Nobody. The Federal Ministry, or the Republic's current foreign ministry, sent us a decree that Milo Djukanovic really said that on behalf of Montenegro in Tirana. Berisha said that, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Milos Aligrudić is here, if not true, come out and deny it. Therefore, if Milo Djukanovic, if your relationship with your friend Milo Djukanovic is more important to you, and the business ties you have with him, than political relations and political protection between Serbia and Serbian citizens, that is another issue. It has nothing to do with the citizens of Montenegro. Please, Serbia won't say - yes, you're right, you're our brothers, if you called Ceku and if you said he was your neighbor. That's not possible in foreign policy. It may be possible in the private relations you have, in foreign policy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29692	The word is from MP Verko Stevanovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am as happy as you are, I hope, that today we are able to pass constitutional law. That's why I have a bit of a problem with this atmosphere, this much bile. I point out what we all point out, that the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction, together with New Serbia, has made a full contribution to this and that the most voters, so those who voted "yes", were in central Serbia. That's when we were all complicated, and today we're not. So today we're taking the opportunity to compete partyly when it's not for that occasion, and it's not because today is a solemn session. It's been three hours since we've been on the floor. I'm under the impression that some of them were looking for a chance to compete in the presence of a patriarch yesterday. I don't know what to call it. It seems to me that we need to change something in the future, and then a little different from each other, we talk to each other and we talk to each other. Seems to me it's a minimum of what we should do. Since this session is the last one in this session, it would be a good idea for it to end in the right way, to bring in a little more dignity. Since we've all been to what we end today, to observe each other differently, to treat each other differently, and to bring this to an end. I'm taking the opportunity to thank you again for your cooperation in the last three years. I wish everyone the best in the election and that the people vote taking into account everything that's happened in this period, including tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29694	Anyone else want a word? MP Bajro Omeragic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29695	The honourable MPs, as all party representatives, who have been making this House for the past three years, have taken advantage of the opportunity to say something about the work of this parliament. First of all, I want to say on behalf of all my voters and all the Sandzak citizens that I want to thank all those who have worked with us these three years. As for the citizens who have elected us, we can indeed say that we have done to integrate Sandzak into all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, to direct more than 100m euros in our mandate in Sandzak, to do something that has not been done, as far as investment in infrastructure is concerned, for more than 25 years. To all those who have supported us on this journey, we thank them. We hope that, in the future composition of this Parliament, we will have an even better atmosphere for the faster process of our country's EU integration. We hope that all that has been the point of discord will be overcome, this applies to those parties that can't even hold this last session in this term without using a dictionary that would not be appropriate to parliament in a democratic atmosphere. However, this is our reality as it is. I can say, on behalf of the Sandzak List coalition, that we and the future parliament will do everything possible to make our way to the EU with our contribution. We will co-operate with all those who want European Serbia. We have contributed to the adoption of this constitutional law and I think we have done that our multiethnic region of Sandzak has one relaxed atmosphere, good international relations and that what we have done with the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues in the future, to the satisfaction of all citizens in our region, and I hope in all other regions. On behalf of the Sandzak List coalition, I want all the best Members and I want to make an even greater contribution in the future parliament to this country as soon as possible to join the EU. That's the aim of the Sandzak Coalition. I hope we're on that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29696	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DSS, DS, G17 plus and SPS. I give the word to the Messenger of the people, Toma Bushetić, that the Messenger of the people, Vladimir Homan, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the SPS has made a huge contribution to the adoption of the new constitution, not because our current 1990 Constitution is bad, on the contrary, the 1990 Constitution is a historical constitution. With the 1990 constitution, we united Serbia, a multi-party system, a market economy was introduced, and everything is to be told about the constitution. With the new constitution, first of all, we wanted to defend Kosovo and Metohija and confirm our commitment not to agree to the abduction of our territory, not to agree to the abduction of our country. We have advocated a new constitution and a referendum, because the new constitution is the Constitution of continuity with the 1990 Constitution. There are no significant changes, except for three newspapers: the abolished social property, the declaration of minority and human rights has been extended and more content and the mechanism for amending the constitution has changed. All other provisions are only small adjustments to the already existing provisions of the 1990 Constitution. These days, the stumbling block for the constitutional law was the date of the election. A few months ago, weeks ago, the December elections were scheduled by Ahtisaari, Solana and representatives of Western European countries, their ambassadors. What does a December election appointment mean, for the end of the year? The plan was a clear, international factor. The elections should be held as soon as possible, in mid-December, and then they understood that so-called. Democratic forces win in Serbia, and then in peace to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. It was an international factor plan. They haven't even given up on that plan, except now the deadlines have changed. What's amazing is that almost all parties from the so-called so-called The democratic bloc immediately accepted the term, December 2006. Why do they make it quite clear? DS, G17 plus and many other parties must not reject any proposal made by governments or ambassadors of Western countries. Of course, they looked forward to it, too, and we'll win those elections in December, and then we'll make it through. But everyone needs to know, if at some point they're forming a government of the so-called government. The democratic bloc, followed by the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, must be re-elected. What the representatives of the international community say, here is Secretary General Kofi Annan's statement a few days ago -- he can't make a solution for Kosovo and Metohija to affect Serbia's elections. Well, how can you not, my people? Someone kidnaps 15% of the territory and that means nothing to the state, to the Serbian people as the majority people in Serbia. That's not true. Or, the President of the European Commission says the same thing these days, he tells a month that Kosovo will join the EU, already has a programme, already has a plan for Kosovo's entry, they say Kosovo, into the EU. How can Kosovo enter the European Union if it is not a state? What does that mean? Does this mean that the most important representatives of the international factor are also going to such a solution as to make Kosovo and Metohija an independent state? But that's what Busek and Ahtisaari, Wisner and representatives of various embassies say. Even Ahtisaari's deputy Alber Roan said yesterday -- a solution for Kosovo will be postponed due to the election. The question now arises, if the solution to Kosovo and Metohija being an independent state is now unacceptable, how will this solution be acceptable after the elections. What does that mean? That means they're counting on that so-called victory. A democratic bloc that will agree to a solution -- not important territory, not important Kosovo and Metohija, is an important better life. Is it even possible to live a better life if someone is stealing your territory? Now the key question is, is the historic issue for Serbia -- what we have received from all these democratic parties, their subjection, the service that has no limit. The people of Serbia need to wonder - what have we got? Well, we didn't get anything. They promised to solve all the issues - no questions were answered. Today in Kosovo, here's Aligrudic said earlier, terrorism again, 2000 murders are in seven years. What have their friends been doing all this time? How can they not be affected? No murder was solved in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is a fact. Yesterday they're cutting our phone cables in the presence of UNMIK. What kind of friends are these? You said you'd solve all questions when you came to power. So there's nothing out of friendship. Or what Petrovic says, a better life. What better life? In Serbia, 60% of people cannot eat, the best companies are sold, workers are out of work. The laws passed are against the majority of the population. What we fixed, it was very small, and when it comes to pension law, and when it comes to labour law, it was not enough for what was done since 2000. What have we received from this subordination in foreign policy and from this people? Orders in front of embassies are bigger than ever. It's harder today than it was till 2000. So our policy is clear about all this. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, Resolution 1244 is a straw of salvation and all those who say that the resolution is a capitulation - that is not true. The resolution is the only guarantee of Kosovo and Metohija's survival within Serbia. When it comes to constitutional law itself, I think it's exaggerated here when it comes to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to courts, public prosecutors, to the choice of judges and prosecutors. Simply, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State's Major Prosecutor's Office - provide nothing. As the politicisation of the judiciary was until 2000, it was from 2000 to 2006, it will continue to be so. Only now we don't have a direct choice through the Assembly, but through these institutions. When it comes to members of these institutions, they are also elected in the Assembly, and election members, and those who are in position, all are tied to the Assembly and to the parliamentary majority. So, like before, the political influence, it's going to be now. Therefore, there is little to say about the fact that some major reforms have now taken place. We advocated the right solution, I had such an amendment, when it comes to elections, that they be held in March and at all levels. That was the only real solution. All other solutions, for example, the 21 January solution, will be the first parliamentary elections, so three or four months later the president, so local by the end of the year, all this was not rational, all this was not necessary. Obviously, the political compromise was the most important. Finally, when we talk about G17 representatives, here they boasted tonight, and the foreign reserve grew, ten billion euros. We all need to know that three billion are from straws, about three and a half of them are from abroad, and at least it's from production and exports. When they talk about how we now have a lot of direct investment, so four billion for this year alone, three billion are just from selling the best companies and businesses (Mobtel, Hemofarma, one bank, the other, Vojvodina, Pannonian). You know, when that money's spent, of all those sales to the firm, what's gonna happen next? Of course, there's plenty more in Serbia when it comes to sales, there's a lot more public enterprises, but if that ends -- where we're going. When it comes to loans, including robberies, it is true that there is now a major robbery in Serbia, and the people are not aware of it. The interest on our money is 3%, and the interest on their money is 30% on the annual level. And what Petrovic and his president Boris Tadic are saying, they are fighting poverty, and in Serbia poverty is getting bigger and bigger, and it will be even bigger because most democratic parties have such a policy. They advocate such a system, they introduce a new system in Serbia -- where the decomposition will be even bigger, the poor will be more, the rich will be even richer. And to count on something special in some new period, if all these parties win the election, some better life, there's nothing. Public enterprises will sell, people will lose their jobs even bigger. Will it change the essential laws? He won't. Pensioners need to know, the alignments will stay twice a year, maybe even once a year. Whether they will change the pension law – they will not, they will not change the Labour Act – they will not. Whether or not they'll end the scholarships - they won't. Whether to change the Health Insurance Act – as participation is introduced from the new year of 20% for hospital treatment, 35% for diagnostics – will not. So there's nothing of it, there's nothing of a better life. They are representatives of a new system, which is not good for the mass of the population. Finally, when it comes to the law, we will vote for it, because this is a compromise, is not the right solution on January 21st. I said we advocated elections at all levels by March, but this is our contribution, and that is why we advocate this compromise solution - to adopt this law and to go to the elections on January 21st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29698	Replica, Mr. Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29699	Mr. Chairman, I know this is a special session, and here to draw attention to it, you didn't exactly have to introduce a practice here on the replica, that it can retaliate several times to what is said. Who has anything to say I think they can do it very concisely and briefly. I'm completely surprised what we just heard here. I can't believe it. The Socialist Party of Serbia has supported the government of the Republic of Serbia for three years and is essentially part of the government because it supports power, and then a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia comes out and says -- 60% are hungry in this country. I'm asking you, why didn't you vote against the government all these three years? It's not a topic. I'm not talking about it today. Here, it's a wide field, January 21st election, we have two full months to deal with the election campaign. Serbian citizens are due today to receive a fact-finding constitution that has come into force. It's the same with this robbery - who robbed and what he robbed, if you support the government that you say was committing some kind of abuse. As for the fight against poverty, the government you led as a party, I mean the Socialist Party of Serbia, left 27 months in 2000 for children's allowances, and 26 months, so over two years, no social aid was paid, the poorest and most vulnerable citizens of this country had not received one dinar in 26 months while the Socialists were in power. That was 2000. The Democratic Party was responsible, most responsible for the government by the end of 2003, and ended its mandate. The Prime Minister was Zoran Djindjic until he died. The Social Affairs Minister was Gordana Matkovic. The Democratic Party ended its mandate by not leaving a single dinar in debt to those who are the poorest in this country. No single dinar has ever remained in debt to those who are users of children's allowances. No single dinar has ever remained in debt to wartime wartime people. She has returned a good deal of debt to the pensioners, these days the liquidation ends, as it is said in the economy, the rest of that debt. It's all a legacy, Mr. Bushettic, from the time you were responsible for public life, for politics and for the life of every citizen of this country. That's the facts. I won't talk about insults, because they don't deserve an answer, and we'll have enough time to tell each other what we have. I think it is very important and very good to come to a decision on this law and to make it clear that Serbia is finally completing this constitutional process.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29700	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, then the replica of Mr. Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone for several reasons of principle. It is okay for political parties to conflict, it is normal and it is understandable in every democratic state that this is happening and that we exchange arguments that we will try to reduce political popularity, or ourselves, to raise the price in the political market. What's not normal and what I can't understand in any way is that someone five or six years is selling the same story to Serbian citizens or trying to sell. It's like we're all kind of silly. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say 2007, or in 2012, or in 2057, entering the European Union or I don't know where, because we don't know how we're going to be. No one's gonna talk about Serbia's development but exactly like a mugger. You were talking in 2000 that in 2003, we would now not let me lie, enter the European Union. Then in 2003 and 2004, you made a promotion for 2006 and 2007 to join the European Union. Now the president tells us to enter in 2012. How many election cycles will go the same kind of campaign, as if citizens are silly in this country. We are interested in making Serbia richer and making Serbian citizens richer, and where we are going to be and who knows what's going to happen in the world in five years. Who knows what's gonna happen. People aren't crazy. There is a dogma, like it used to be Communism, and now eumenism, and the greatest titoists and communists, here they are now in the ranks of emunists, from Ratko Bozovic to I don't know who, to Gordana Suša, etc., but absolutely the worst and the greatest. Here's the idea they're propagating for us today. We don't care, we're interested in the state of Serbia. And another thing that was said about here, I was reporting for a replica, it wouldn't be a fundamental replica, but I would climb up and say something about what Mr. Dacic was talking about. Here someone is talking about a break or discontinuity with Milosevic's regime. Milosevic was not the president of the party I belong to. But I just have one more thing to say and I'll be done in a minute. You, people, insisted on copying all the provisions that speak about the system of division of the Milosevic constitution. We've been looking for some changes, and you have insisted from the self-proclaimed democratic bloc that absolutely nothing is changing. Nothing changes. The Checks and Balances system, brake and balance in relation to the legislative judicial and bicepal executive authorities, is absolutely unchanged. The absolute continuity relative to Milosevic's constitution, if you call it Milosevic, and I don't think Milosevic is the Serbian constitution of the 1990s, such as this is neither Kostunica nor Tadic, so it is not radical, even if the radicals contributed most to him, but it is the Mitrovican and Serbian Constitution. Once we're done. What's different is that there's no social property anymore. What is said is an anthem, a coat of arms and a state symbol. Which we already had according to the law passed. What's different, being said by force of opportunity, is that we no longer live together with Montenegro. So it's said, now we have a president commanding the army. Nothing more than jurisdiction has been added or taken away. I told this story that people in Serbia would hear once really what the real truth is, because when you listen to B92 and some fake analysts on RTS at that time of the referendum night, we hear stories like that, that no one alive could believe, from the people who were educated, who were reading the Constitution, what they could hear. What a discontinuity this is. The biggest advantage of what we're doing here tonight is that there's no discontinuity and there's no October 6th. That he doesn't have a lynch. The fact that we lived in that system, we continued to live normally, there is no interruption, there is nothing and there will be no such relationship between political parties. Yeah, great. We can conflict here and we can tell each other everything we think, but the state is one. We do, I repeat it once more, and only about those principled things, otherwise you wouldn't actually answer. We have one Serbia, at least let this Serbia be something that in some situations we can unite and talk about Serbia, not what the political programmes of the parties are, about some international arrangements or organizations or anything else. Serbian citizens have brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Neither the constitution nor Bulgaria nor Romania nor the European Union were interested. They've brought the constitution because they expect them to live better, to have something done to them that might make it incomparably easier for them. When some talk about the great successes of their governments, each government has its own successes and its own bad sides, but I must remind you that these are the governments that have given Chumet how many thousands of kilometers of asphalt in Serbia. But it's not for Serbia, it's for whose pockets. These are the governments that bought 45,000 dinars, whether there are domestics, whether there are women in Serbia who, not today, mean somewhere around 70,000 dinars for 70,000 dinars or something. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: 2,000 dinars. The most expensive is 2,000 dinars, I don't really know. Let's not talk about "Sartid" for 21 million, and some say today it could have been 450. It's not the answer to that and today it's Smeder's, they're great salaries and they're big exporters. Well, it is, whoever you place here or in a cement store or in any monopoly production, it will work incomparably better. One more thing, Mr. Chairman, for the end of somewhere when we have little time left, you will leave me space, because in a dirty way it has been tried to defile the honour of the Serbian Radical Party MP, Mr. Todorovic. We brought the papers. So, the verdict is true, and I'd like to ask you then to let me read these few lines, to see how some wicked people are used to dishonesty, but that's why the elections on January 21st are welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29702	Replica, MP Toma Busetic, go ahead
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic, it is true that we have supported this government for three years, but it is true that this government at least for a shade was better than that of your government. We're not happy with this government, but it was better for the shade. And why did we support it? First of all, for state reasons. Political stability was necessary, and the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija as Damokl's sword was always hanging over our heads, and it seems that the moment has come. So our reasons are state reasons. But when I talk about this government being better for a shade, I think first of all, the biggest robbery was in the period 2001-2003. At that time, cement was privatised, the banks were liquidated, the tobacco industry was privatised, brewery and everything worth it in Serbia. Although there's more to it. And we would have easily settled pensioners during those 10 years, allocated certain social protection funds, if we had sold any of it. We didn't sell anything, not a single factory, no more valuable company. And Telekom when it was sold, it's true, 1.5 billion marks, overpaid, because you know how much it was worth when the Italians paid it back to you, so it's overpaid, because the Italians were about to help us. When it comes to this privatisation, why was privatization a robbery? The best firms didn't have to sell out the way they sold out. First of all, they sold themselves very cheaply, secondly, many of these companies didn't have to sell at all. And why shouldn't the citizens of Serbia be shareholders of the tobacco industry? In most cases, where foreigners bought strategic companies, such as cementers, such as Cementara in Paracino, there were 3,000 workers in 2000, all receiving salaries, paying contributions for pension insurance, health insurance, taxes on earnings, and now we have 700 workers in Cementara in Paracino, and it is announced that there will be 300 workers. That's why I'm talking about that wrong system of yours. They sell everything, the state has nothing to think about, all private people will think about it, they'll improve production, and of course there's nothing to do with it. And what you're boasting about, Matkovicka has paid the pensioners back. Well, you know, when we came to pensions being coordinated by the Swiss system, pensions being calculated for the entire working century, fund needs were reduced, they could easily cover those costs if we now cut and say pensions line up once a year. Well, what are the needs of a pension fund then? And when we talk about politics and the system, our request has always been that our policy, when we talk about the pension fund, must be the most important and that pensions are covered from the original funds. That means a contribution, not a budget. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying don't fool the citizens again, that's how you talked in 2000, it'll get better, there'll be bigger wages, we'll solve all the problems. They have to think twice about, in six years, where the dominant parties were so-called parties. The democratic bloc, nothing is better for Serbia. And when it comes to Montenegro and Ceku. This is just a trial stone, a test balloon that Serbia will behave when Kosovo and Metohija are abducted. So, Serbia didn't do it properly, there was no sharp demarch, I'm not going to support the chairman of the board of directors now, I don't know if that's exactly how he said it was necessary to end diplomatic relations with Montenegro. But, you know, diplomacy is the most important principle of reciprocity, and we have to apply that principle to these small countries at least. Because they say, if they treat Montenegrins this way, so will Bosnia, Macedonia, we can do with them what we want. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29704	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed a great day for all those who, just 15 days ago, called together to come to the referendum and vote for the new Constitution. Today we need to pass a law that will enable the implementation and implementation of the Constitution. But, unfortunately, it is obvious that this pay phone from a political party, which soon has a congress, is being abused for domestic party purposes, so if you still intend to abuse the speaker to define your individual factional party goals, please tell us to go out nicely, wait, that you all finish it well and go back, and then we'll discuss the topic that's on the agenda today. I'm reporting because the previous speaker hurt the Rules of Procedure because he was telling an elementary lie. The previous MP said breweries have been privatised since 2001. The mistake, Mr. Bushetic, all the breweries were privatized before 2000, and what happened after 2000, workers who had shares sold their shares to a strategic partner. Therefore, workers have better understood than the 1996 privatisation model creators what the country needs, and the country needs strategic partners, which will enable new investments and that will allow better corporate governance and all that such privatisation model carries. Another great lie, Mr. Busetic, I hope that you will go out for this pay phone again and continue with the falses, to give me the opportunity to tell you the whole series of facts that most Serbian citizens know today, is that the privatised enterprises, you mentioned cementists, tobacco industry factories, destroyed by privatisation. I will remind you of what the Serbian Government has been telling us on a regular basis, including Sartid, thank you Mr Todorovic, I will remind you that Sartid, the tobacco industry Nis, the tobacco industry Vranje, all three cements, plus a whole series of companies that are successfully privatised, are now key exporters of Serbia's export activity. And that among the first 50 companies, which are the biggest exporters, 45 have been successfully privatised in the period since 2000. And I will also remind you, what you could have just heard from my colleague, Mr Petrovic, as regards how advanced the standard of living is, I will remind you that the average salary in 2000 was 30 euros, and I will also remind you that today the average salary is around 270 euros. So you divide the 270 by 30 nicely, I guess you can do this mathematical operation by telling the truth, so you can see how much the standard of living in our country has jumped. As I can continue to remind you, but I do not want to abuse this pay phone, I have reported that I would make clear to the citizens of Serbia the facts that are inappropriately on our side. What I can also remind you, all of you who abuse the pay phone and tell the truth, is the information about the amount of foreign reserves and, by the way, you just said one harsh untrue, there are no signs in the foreign exchange reserves, or all of the other categories you mentioned earlier, but the foreign reserves of the dam to establish a balance in the pay-balance deficit, I will remind you that inflation with 100 and change percentages from 2000 are reduced to only 7.5% in 2003. So, please, don't use arguments that don't add up to you. I really understand, December 3rd, the party convention is approaching, but don't abuse this pay phone. Believe me, I know, I'm very well informed when your congress is, but don't abuse the pay phone. You know, the vast majority of Serbian citizens, who have no idea of supporting the SP, didn't deserve to be so bullied tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29706	The word has Sredoje Mihajlov, so Mr. Vukic, then Mr. Obradović, then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29707	I must remind our colleagues, since there is also the president of the assembly who chaired here, what it looked like in their time. We were really in the '90s trying to bring democracy. I was the first one who stood up to be able to speak as much as he wanted. They wouldn't allow television transmissions at the time. Now we've made it possible for all of this to be broadcast publicly and told as much as possible. But really don't abuse democracy, because doing what you did would be terrible. Please, there's time, more than two months until the election, you have the chance to highlight your programs, to place your ideas, to have your accusations and wrong accusations, and everything you think will attract voters. It would really be a turn, respecting the subject, respecting what we should bring today, and you all agreed it was very serious for Serbia. I don't think a pay phone should be abused, and especially from those who know what it looked like ten years ago, and that's the flow of democracy, that's what we've made possible. I don't mind. I'll be patient to hear you do it by morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29708	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although he did not directly mention me, I recognized myself, although in a small part of Mr. Vlahovic's story, and that is why I want to respond, especially to the part about the situation in society. Namely, that kind of argument, those self-proclaimed democratic forces that are constantly using and saying, once the salary was 40 euros, and today it's 240, so it's about 1:6 or 6:1, how you set things up, so you watch who lived better and how he lived. That might be true if all the circumstances and all the impulses were the same, but they're not the same. The electricity didn't add up six times, it cost 14 times. Many other basic life costs have been increased by tenfold compared to that earlier. In doing so, I'm not someone who's gonna tell you that, once everything was good and great, and now everything's disastrous. That's all unserious people can say. I'm telling you another thing, that comparison of yours looks like it, like if I were to brag, so I say, a lot of my son made progress, four years ago, you see, he couldn't open a book at all, and today he's reading Cyrillic, Latin, he knows all the capitals of the world. Well, mankind is progressing, which means, 100 years ago, no one knew what television was. You'll tell us in 20 years what happened in 1990 or 1995. It is understood that we have to make progress and that it is something that is normal and reasonable. On the contrary, we also have how developed processes that things drag back. Why don't you tell the people who showed the biggest loss in the Republic of Serbia? Our biggest exporters. The four largest exporters in Serbia, therefore, US Stella, Philip Morris, Seval Impol D.O.O., and this second currency, with the fact that they are the biggest exporters, are also the biggest losers. For what? What caused the greatest loss? I'll tell you why, in order to avoid paying all necessary taxes and tax obligations to the state of Serbia, and at the same time, the money comes out without any control. I don't mind that they paid that price that was needed to pay, and they didn't pay it, as you know, Mr. Vlahovic. They didn't pay for it, and especially not at the modern-day Sartide. Everybody knows that. I know something about people who went on that case. Some of them are top lawyers. They were among the best law school students, they studied at the time I studied. I know how involved they are, how well they know the reals and how they got in the whole Sartide story. Of course, it's about cops, people who are investigating this case today. These people came to the conclusion that it was absolutely impossible for this job to end without major corruption. They have even come up with something that is semi-distribution, but not enough, of course, for the prosecutor and the court later, it is understood that the most representatives of the authorities are accused of the highest corruption. And I'm not going to conclude anything, because that thing didn't come to the end of the trial. There's no legal judgment. I want to tell you that things aren't as simple as someone wants to introduce them and they're not as simple as someone wants to introduce them. In Serbia, people are living terribly hard today. You're saying all military people with disabilities, pensioners are paid off. We received two messages from the King and the Kragujevac that wartime military invalids had not been paid off in 1999. I didn't know, neither did I, nor you, I'm sure, but you came up with a story, let's tell you how it all ended well, how everything was done well. We are, it's a super democratic government or I don't know what it is. That's not true. That's not true. You say 45 most successful privatisations, these are the most successful collectives. What were they in our previous system? Well, the same cementers, except we could sell Lafarg for 35 million euros more, at the time of the sanctions, if I'm not mistaken. For 132 million, says Mr. Angelkovic, I think he's gone a little too far, but anyway. It's really almost amazing. I'm asking, of course, that Cementar works in Popovac, of course, cement is a monopoly commodity. I ask the question - and who has been charged with stealing three million euros in the same cement store. That's what they found over the bill, and what went into the cash, they didn't even find it. That's the essential question. Will NIS be successful tomorrow when you separate it to TNG for one businessman who's close to the government, and other parts for someone else. Well, they will. Is EPS a genius company? Yes, it is. When it's private, it'll work even better, there's no doubt. What difference does it make? (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. I'm done, Mr. Michaelovich. During that time, the workers will only be fired. How many people in Kragujevac fell unconscious the other day because they were fired? A thousand and a hundred workers are out of work in Kragujevac. Don't make fun of it. I don't know what's funny about that. I don't know if they fall exactly the way you showed it or not, but it's really true. I urge you not to look at things like this, and there's no width, like I don't want to accept from people who are going to say, now nothing, anywhere, in any sphere is good, and everything before was ideal. Things are rather not in such contrasts, but, I would say, in gray shades, and our people must live better and the state of Serbia must deal with corruption, crime and deal with robbers. This is our priority, not related to what regime they were in and in which the regime was both ministers and directors and board presidents and anything else, because only then will Sribja become legally attractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29710	Mr. Obradich, are you looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29711	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like those MPs who go out for this assembly pay phone and abuse party topics for my personal promotion to tell, yes, they will find it interesting to hear, because that actually offends them. Let me tell you, particularly to the Democrats, we Socialists can tell you, and also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we will come out of our congress with a very clear message, which is that we will not allow NIS and EPS. I think the citizens will be happy, and they'll make you sad. They will be happy because it has great importance for their lives, and they will make you sad because you will not be able to take the fees you took on privatisation. This whole story we've heard from a man who was in charge of privatization is actually a story about a failed privatisation that was a robbery. It's really degutant to talk about workers, when the Democratic Party of the Privatisation Act took away the workers' majority package of actions and prevented them from having action. Don't pour crocodile tears because workers can't sell their actions. Please, the Apatian brewery, Knjaz Milos or some other factories and businesses privatized under the old law gave workers and a majority package of actions and the opportunity to do with these actions whatever they want. Here's the problem with something else. Because during the privatisation, the value of the property was depreciated, because instead of the workers you set up a strategic partner, and you took the commission and put it in your pocket. It's a shame, and instead of keeping your mouth shut about the privatisation you've done, you're still taking it for granted. You've dirtyed your face to yourself and the party you represent and the institutions you've worked with. The Sartida case is the biggest robbery in Serbia's history. You did so together with the people of the judiciary, when you transferred Sartid from the jurisdiction of the Business Court in Pozarevc to Belgrade, when you sold Sartid without a market, by direct contract, when Sartid, whose value was estimated at $56 million, sold for 23, when the ambassador of Serbia-Montenegro in Washington said that you received 35, your ambassador, and then he kept quiet because the difference was 12 million, where it came from, when you forgave the buyer $1,600,000. Hey, you guys know what you're saying? You're talking about successful privatisation? Two thousand companies for two billion euros. So, forgive a billion and six million dollars, and two thousand companies sell for two billion euros, and you're talking about privatisation. So 49% of Telecom, when we were under sanctions, was sold for a billion 536 million marks. You've lost the compass, both moral and political. When you want to give us lectures on something that the whole of Serbia sees as a robbery. When your members, at the age of 30, with their first job in life, have the property of four or five million euros. Look at the report of the Anti-Corruption Council, so look at the structure of the people who sold the Sartid, so you'll see the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Privatisation, the head of the cabinet. Look at that report, so give an answer why it didn't see the light of day today. You lecture us on privatisation and you call us socialists. So if someone wants to talk about privatisation, they have to have arguments. To mention "Sartid," to mention the biggest robbery, not to mention who took the commission! It would be good for you to tell us who took those 12 million differences, which was pointed out by the ambassador, otherwise by a member of the Democratic Party, where that money is, because those in Sartid didn't come. They didn't come to Smederevo either, although it was said that part of it, five million, would be handed over to local self-government in Smederevo. It's a privatisation that you did, and it's a privatisation that robbed Serbia. So if you have nothing but political marketing, then you'd better not go out for this pay phone. You go ahead and we're here to tell you how we feel about your privatisation. And of course, about what you've done, you've had enough of Serbia, you've robbed Serbia, and you still want to lecture us on what the law should look like. Of course, now it's easy for you to laugh full of pockets, but it's part of the profile you cultivate and the image you're trying to expand in this Serbia. Large experts sold 2,000 companies for two billion euros. That's the Serbia you made.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29712	Since Mr. Dacic, I suppose, was looking for a replica, then he has the advantage of Mr. Vlahovic, having reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29713	If someone wants to understand in political practice that one, once a large party of 200 MPs, came to 20, and the question is whether they will be sitting in these benches in the future, it is enough just to listen to the predecessors' speech after this speaker. Except for the usual arsenal of epithets, robbery, theft, robbery, robber, I've heard nothing else here. If it's just your program, so don't be surprised tomorrow, Mr. Beard, I'm talking to you, don't be surprised tomorrow when you stay under the censorship and watch the Assembly, but not from the inside, but from the outside. I think it's the fate of political parties that don't have their own agenda, but they only know to tell lies about this pay phone. I can tell you this: "Sartid"; if you're interested in how Sartid operates and what's his condition today, go and ask the employees of Sartid, and ask the unions at Sartid. I guarantee you, you'd say, away from Sartide, because while you were in power, Mr. Obradovic, in Sartide, mushrooms were growing. While you were in power, Mr. Obradovic, Sartid used it annually, I will now tell you how much it is in euros because those dinars are absolutely not comparable, 30m euros in subsidies from the state budget. If you don't know, I'll tell you that the state budget is filled with taxpayers' money, Mr. Obradovic, what will it say from the pockets of those you claim to be your voters tomorrow. It won't be, of course, because they know very well that what you're saying here is a fundamental lack of a political programme and a political platform. Otherwise, what you've been saying here for 10 minutes in grammar is called tautology, which means repeating one of those same things. With tautology you can make a good style poet figure and this is Jova Jovanovic Dragon in his time in "Djulici ujeleci" used, but this style figure will not help you much in your future political work. As you know, all of you, let me remind you, the moment this famous hack or the Sartid investigation took place, I went and made a statement, not calling for parliamentary immunity. I would like all MPs, not in this assembly, but in all future councils, not to use their parliamentary immunity when they need to bypass the face of justice. I have no objection to all investigations being conducted and in the future, not only when it comes to the Sartid case, but a whole series of other cases, because I know that I am personally, and the Ministry of whose head I was, has been working strictly on the laws adopted by this highest parliamentary House, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for this statement of claims that the remaining huge unpaid debt to wartime wartime disabled persons, I would remind you that by 2004, more specifically by March 2004, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid seven and a half months of compensation from the republican budget. It is true that some compensation from the federal budget, those federal states, remained unpaid and it is true that the republican government later took over as its payment obligation. If you think the euro is not comparable to the visas of the living standard indicator, then the consumer basket is unmatchedly comparable. We all agree that the consumer basket is equal in all political regimes, and when radicals are in power, and when Socialists are in power, both DS, DSS and other parties. At the time of 2000 with an average salary, barely 35 per cent of the basic consumer basket could be covered. We already had a lot of basic, not full consumer baskets in 2000, but a basic, average salary. They're indicators. I trust them because I have no other tangible arguments based on which I can run a political story. I understand why some companies do not understand why they lose their business shortly after privatisation. I'll tell you that this is a direct consequence of restructuring, because the largest number of privatised enterprises, including large ones, privatised by the tender procedure, must be restructured after privatisation, this time this restructuring is run by a well-known private owner, whoever he is, a strategic partner. In other words, non-refundable claims must be signed, in the absence of incurable supplies, the restructuring of high financial commitments must be carried out, an additional investment must be made in order to improve the technical condition of the companies that are privatised. That's why, among other things, losses happen. The fact is that in the previous or current year, in which we are located, losses were partly due to one discrepancies in the central bank's policy, or inconsistencies between, on the one hand, monetary policy and fiscal policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and they suffered most of it by those who were large exporters. That's the case with Sartide, Seval, that's the case with Valjaonica copper, and that's the case with all the major exporters. I hope that monetary policy, a policy of course along with fiscal policy will be synchronised in the coming period and will allow it to contribute directly to a further faster course of economic transition in our country. I thank you very much for your attention. I'm not gonna take up any more of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29714	Mr. Dacic, you asked for a replica. You want to go first or Mr. Obradovic? Mr. Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29715	I'm glad the previous speaker said everything I didn't ask him, and not a part of what he needed to answer. How is it possible that Sartid, estimated by the Belgrade Economic Institute for $56m, will be sold for 23? How is it possible for Serbia-Montenegro's ambassador to say it was sold for 35? How can a $12 million difference appear? Where's the money? Well, I guess the ambassador of a state knows what he's saying. Why didn't the money come to Smeder's and where did that money end? It would have been good to hear that it was "Sartid" excluded from the jurisdiction of the Business Court in Pogorevec and transferred to Belgrade, it would have been good to hear. It would be good to hear how the bankruptcy was introduced, so, for example, the NIS and the EPS who had $10 million claims didn't even get a part of it. That'd be good to hear. It would be good to hear about the role of all the people in the structure of the government, and the Anti-Corruption Council cited a tax structure that decided to sell Sartida. You tell these stories every day – the people in Serbia live well, only they are not aware, and you are there to explain it to them, of course. It would be good to say that it is 2,000 businesses for two billion euros and 49% for Telecom, at the time of sanctions, 1.536.000,000 marks. As the predecessor said - data, indicators. These are indicators, not your pure demagogy. Come out and explain to us how you sold it to the EPS for $22 million, not 56, and why with a direct contract, not that someone else is still asking to buy it. Why did the Germans get angry about it and why they sent letters and protested. You should explain that. You have no answers for this, if you had them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29716	People's MP, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already forgotten why I signed up for the line, but that doesn't mean I won't use the line. I'm just kidding. I'm not old enough to forget it. Anyway, I answered the line. It was my occasion to present Alexander Vukic. Thank him for mentioning me, so I could use the right to replicate. Here, I'm talking about him, so he can use the line. I would ask you, all the other MPs, why you are amazed at the use of all the business rights we use as MPs. See how little you abuse all state functions and media in Serbia, and you will conclude that this speaker, unfortunately or fortunately, is the only place where we can address the public of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that we have allegedly done some part of the ruling structure in Serbia over the past few years does not mean that journalists in Serbia have understood it that way; the main news remains in the media in Serbia what Vladan Batic, Cedomir Jovanovic and everyone else say. Since this is an interactive show, I would ask you, you don't vote here via text messages, you don't need to, you still vote in elections, so it's not like the Pyramid. Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, since I've known about myself, and I've been in politics for a long time (Natasa Jovanovic and I were the youngest MPs in this federal assembly in 1996), was an expert on privatisation issues at the time of the government of Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. Along with Danko Djindjic, the Economic Institute, later Deloitte&Touche, participated in the privatisation of businesses in Serbia, according to our law. At the time, the law didn't bother him to take a commission. Likewise, and now, according to the new law, he is a Privatisation Advisor. So it doesn't matter what the law is, it's important to be a counselor. It is the most profitable activity in the Republic of Serbia, a privatisation adviser. I just don't know what else you're gonna advise, 'cause there's nothing more to privatize. It's over. In any case, Mr. Vlahovic criticises privatisation in our time, and he was doing that privatisation, he advised companies how to privatise under the law that was then passed. To be clear, it is true that some companies are privatised under our laws, fortunately by those workers, because when they sold actions to foreign owners or domestic strategic partners, they received several thousand or ten thousand euros for it. And what did they get from your privatisation? They got shot at the work desk. Therefore, this is the difference between these two concepts of privatisation. As far as wartime disabled people are concerned, what you were talking about, from 2000 to 2003, you could say that there remained a debt of 1,800,000 dinars, just for the record. Here's Mr. Vlahovic, okay. He said he wouldn't get involved in the debate anymore, so there won't be any problem. We have here, apparently, mixed some pots because you just attacked Tom Busetic that when he speaks of attacks on the government he was not part of that ruling structure. When you listen to Vlahovic, he seems to be part of the ruling structure. Why are you defending what's happening now? You may be together in power all these years, you probably are... In fact, I called about the word of Alexander Wolfie and I'm asking him to listen to me. Please, Mr. Wolfie, you were talking about continuity and discontinuity. Of course, this constitution is not a constitution of discontinuity; Serbian President Boris Tadic and his party insisted that all powers remain and new powers be added to the Serbian president. They attacked Milosevic that he was a dictator and attacked the constitutional system that he was a presidential system, and now they insist that the president of Serbia has no authority and that they need a stronger president. They kept the same way the president chose. The problem is, the president's in charge of the army. Do you know what the difference is now? We don't have an army anymore, and that's the difference, and today our army is armed with slingshots or soaps and washers in hospitals and retirement homes, where our people serve a military deadline. With such an army there is no need for anyone to command. But in any case, this is not about any continuity and discontinuity, but about the continuation of that constitutional position as president of Serbia. In the end, we are politically different and on our mutual satisfaction you can see as many accusations on both sides. What would the Socialist Party of Serbia be like to praise the Democratic Party, and vice versa? In that case, I'd be worried. It's true that they praised Banet Ivkovic, and we didn't exactly get there, we didn't deserve to be praised. We need to argue with each other, but let's not underestimate each other. You speak of how many seats it takes to have someone in parliament, so I would suggest you think about it a little bit, because as much as the Socialist Party of Serbia wins in parliament, and believe that it will win them more than now, it will be a political factor without which you will not be able to do in Serbia's political life. So pay attention to the use of some words that we cannot go over afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29718	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29719	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to what Mr. Albianic was saying, I would say that he would go to the university where he taught, are you satisfied with the team? As for the topic we are talking about - the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - I would like to supplement what I was just talking about, which is the prerogatives of the authorities, the powers of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you of the round tables held in 1990 for the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which representatives of different political parties tried in every way to say that Milosevic made a constitution for themselves and that it is a dictatorial constitution, and it is rightly called the Caesarist Constitution. If you have read the Constitution, there is nowhere to be seen; it was clear to whoever carefully read that the highest power in the state is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not the President of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't the ignorant, it was Mr. Dacic's mistake, because they did it in their own way. Not that they didn't know, because there were top lawyers. He is not a top lawyer, Stevan Lilic, who is a thief and a court plagiarist, who took the book of Laza Kostic, which he has written as a whole, because he thought it would not be known, and now it is good in the Democratic Party at some association of democratic lawyers. The man stole the whole book and prescribed it, thinking no one would find that book, "Administrative Law" by Laza M. Kostic, our prominent immigrant writer. So they all said something like that and lied. But these today have rewritten absolutely all the norms that concern the system have divided the authorities of the Constitution in 1990, except that they have strengthened the powers of the President of the Republic. If it was a Caesarist constitution, then this one would be Caesarist at the cube. Fortunately not, nor was it a Caesarist constitution, with such powers as that of the President of the Republic. There was one lie in a series of lies, I think it was some Studio B, B92 and some politicians, and nothing more. That's what we should be careful of and what we're talking about. There was talk earlier about the role in privatisation, how it was taking place; perhaps our privatisation wasn't quick and successful, but it was very carefully guided. I know how it was done, we've been struggling around certain sports centers, and how much pain and hand has gone through. It went through such terrible controls that there was no robbery and kidnappings, commissions and anything else. This all went backwards, as our people say, although it's pointless and linguistically incorrect, at a rapid rate, to make some richer and get as much as possible. Guys, today we're talking about the bankruptcy mafia as a special sight and form of the mafia, a mob organization. What does it mean when we say "mafian organization"? This means that the highest organised crime is in line with the state and state authorities. We should now see who was in contact with Mr. Kljajevic and who put him in that place, that is, with Mr. Chumett, who was released by the Trade Court and the like. So, who are these people? Is that us? We didn't. We see it from Mr Kljajevic's letter to Mr Tadic, as he cites people, all the ministers to the government from 2000 to 2004. I don't know what two governments are, but he ordered them all to each other and said he was just a pawn who was fulfilling those orders, so now he's grabbed it, and they're all nice and won't remember him. Of course, Serbian citizens will give their assessment of the situation in the country, but I think it is necessary to have a more objective and serious approach. You can always look at things from only one angle, but that's not good enough, because the other part of Serbia and other people in Serbia will say -- hey, so you didn't say anything about what's going on on the other side. We have a lot to change and fix in Serbia in order for the citizens of Serbia to live better, and I think it is the interest of everyone. I hope that due to the interest of the citizens of Belgrade, Mr. Bogdanovic turned on the lights tonight on that invisible bridge that he advertised in all the newspapers. I reckon that's why he was away from the O.R. and that everyone who's going through Sava tonight will see that bridge. I didn't understand you, Mr. Bogdanovic, but I would ask when will this invisible bridge finally be seen by the Belgraders, because you promised him six years and never to see him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29720	One moment, Brance Stojanović, and Mr Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've gone a little far from the subject, but I'm referring to a member of the Rules of Procedure who's talking about the fact that this speaker has to be told the truth. I would just ask Mr. Vlahovic when he was telling the truth: did he speak in the Assembly, when we talked about it, when he exclusively claimed that the government had nothing to do with the privatisation of Sartida, that the whole procedure was conducted by a bankruptcy manager and that the government had nothing to do with it. That's when I said it wasn't true. At least we, as far as local and local media are concerned, know very well what photographs were published; Mr. Vlahovic, not to appoint all people, some of them are not alive, you were in that photograph and you were talking about the whole procedure that was conducted. That's when you claimed the government wasn't behind it, it was the bankruptcy manager. Of course, the question arises why the bankruptcy was conducted by the Commercial Court in Belgrade, not in Pogorevec. You'll never say that, you can't say that. Secondly, you've now confirmed that you weren't telling the truth at the time. You have now said that the government of the Republic of Serbia has carried out the best privatisation, and you have reiterated that in Smederev on local television when you participated in Mr Micevic's election campaign. Therefore, please, the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Respecting your expertise in the field of economic sciences and your knowledge of Sartida, which is remarkable, and you know very well how long you worked at Sartid in front of the company where you were before you were Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I do not want to reduce it at any time, but by skillful manipulation of this story, and you have started this story yourself, you deceive this home and the public of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29722	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29723	I apologize to the MPs, the citizens of Serbia for reporting again for the word, but simply new claims, which go beyond sound logic, are indeed in waves. So first, let me say the visa of my previous engagement, while I was working at the Economic Institute, and later at Deloitte and Touche by 2000, and the participation of the company I worked for and who I was partnered with until the moment I was appointed as minister in the new government of Serbia, here was the claim that the company I worked for was taking a commission from privatisation from previous periods. How is that possible, Mr. Dacic? Privatisation was a free share of shares. So there's no sale. The commission or percentage compensation shall be taken when a sale is made. A percentage compensation to a company that works on behalf of a company that is privatised or works for the state is only possible when there is a model of sales. I don't know about any company, that the previous government, so before 2000, since 1997... And, therefore, I am surprised that Mr. Vukic is adopting this model of privatisation that was brought in during the period when the Serbian Radical Party was not in power. So the government of the Republic of Serbia has not sold any companies from 1997 to 2000. Therefore, Mr. Dacic's claim is simply not true. In fact, she sold one, and that's the most valuable one, in which "Deloitte and Touche," or any company I ever had a relationship with, didn't participate. And how did she sell the most valuable company? Not the way we had the chance to watch a few months ago – in front of cameras, publicly, in competitive competitive procedures, when the best price is achieved, but by having a direct contract fallen between not knowing who. Because today, let me ask you who sold Telekom Serbia, or who quickly changed the Law on the Public Enterprise PTT, to make a special company Telecom, literally overnight, and in two or three days after that to sell Telekom for a price that was invaluable compared to the privatisation that happened shortly thereafter in Croatia, to sell 35% of Croatia's Telekom Deutsche Telekom to Telecom. Let me remind you, 35% of Croatian Telekom was sold for about $950 million. You sold 49% for a billion dollars. Therefore, Croatia, which is twice as small as Serbia's territory and whose Telekom is far less valuable than Serbia's Telekom by its potential, has taken more money for a smaller percentage of the capital sold. Why? Because of the sales model, gentlemen. If you had a competitive competitive procedure then you'd have a far higher price and you might be able to put together another month in power. So don't insult the elemental logic and the elemental intellect. It is not possible to compensate through a fee called a fee for a successful job, which is all a legal thing, and that goes through an account, not in bags or in other extravagant payments, because there was no sales model either. So much for tonight. I really don't want to make it right anymore of the lies that come out of this pay phone. Just another sentence of apropo "Sartida": there is no contradiction in what I said tonight and what I said several times in the Serbian Parliament, so in the old building, and what I told the media, the Anti-Corruption Council. It is true that the privatisation of Sartida was done by the Trade Court, as prescribed by the Bank's Banking Procedure Act, but it is also true that the privatisation of 9,000 workers in Sartid has been given the job and that Sartid has become from an enterprise subsidized by the leader in Serbia's foreign trade business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29724	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. You'll get the word, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29725	It's a business thing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was counting on tonight to discuss something that was a ceremony yesterday. For the Socialist Party of Serbia, it is very important, because of the fact that in this multi-party, and in this multi-party assembly, but also in Serbia's multi-party parliamentary democracy, certain principles and attitudes that the people, led by the communists, have established in 1989 and 1990, when it comes to the single Serbia, the division of power, the modern democratic constitution, the introduction of the principles of multilateral parliamentary democracy, and I think it is very important that we conclude the constitutional law tonight. However, Mr. Vlahovic, as you know, I was part of that government and there are several things that are completely absurd, which are being placed here as truth. But there are more lies that have been told here. I heard here an hour ago that neither the sun was in the 1990s, so one MP said there were no television broadcasts, but when he came, then there was a television broadcast; I guess Rafaelovic, probably he saw it from a restaurant, forgets that the TV broadcast was on March 9, 1991, when you demonstrated, we sat in parliament like this until morning, and viewers by the TV screen. But what you're going to do, man doesn't know, he was probably in the field or wherever, while in the 1990s parliament was working, and he thinks that now television was created, in 2005-2006; or now he's showing up from the restaurant, but he's back again, his problem. So the citizens of Serbia know it's a lie, but here there's an opportunity for a man to tell a lie and stay alive and say here -- the sun started shining at 23:30. Another lie here, when it comes to the 1997 privatisation model, Mr. Vlahovic, the SPS is proud of that model. If we had been lucky enough to arm the privatisation then, said it was over by 1998-1999, you wouldn't have advised how to sell companies, but workers would have sold their own shares and taken what was theirs. But we didn't, we made a mistake, I admit what we did wrong. It was an ideal law. The workers knew... (President Milan Markovic: Weather, Mr Angelkovic. Let's get a little order in. Everyone's entitled to the replica for three minutes, so it says in the Rules of Procedure, please stick to the time. Here you go. Mr. Markovic, just enjoy it, I'll respect the weather, watch the clock. So, the workers of this privatisation, it's true, sold their shares and charged their past work. We're proud to have done this kind of privatisation, share privatisation, in brewery. That's good. If it hadn't been for that, he wouldn't have gotten that much money, and that's how he'd have developed in the last year. When it comes to cementers, it wasn't like that. Now 300 workers in Koseric are working, working 700 workers while it was a state-owned company. At the time there were 4,000 employees in Koseric in the city, now 700 or 1,000 employees. Take a look at how you participated, I don't know if it's personal, that's what you discuss, whether Kolesar, Janjusevic, what's about the cement store in Paracina and what about those islands, where it was. Beocin, where the government in 1998... Of course, it couldn't be realised because of sanctions, that's a fact, 132 million were offers and 100 million loans to the Serbian government from the same firm that bought it at twice the price later. (President: Mr. Angelkovic, please... Mr. Markovic, I'm looking at the clock. (President: It's ten minutes...) Don’t get too upset when you’re on the agenda. Be nervous when someone else is on the agenda. When you're on the agenda be careful, a little cultured, democratically oriented, be broad-minded, etc., and I'm looking closely at the clock, I won't overstep. When it comes to Telecom, you were talking about how this "Mobtel" was sold great. He says, transparently, brilliantly, licensed and 100% Mobtel capital; in the meantime, the Mobtel developed for seven years, so he increased at least 100 times the number of subscribers, I guess every subscriber is worth more and was sold... Mr. Bogdanovic, I'm going, but I'm going to the government, and you're going to the street as soon as January 21st. So it was sold for a billion and 300. You boast of it, and 49% of Telekom has been sold in fact for a billion and a half of the current money. You say a billion dollars when it turns, but a billion and a half euros then and now, a billion and a half marks are 49%. I remind you, Mr. Vlahovic, 780 million, how much it was worth 29% of the Italian stake in Telekom, the government of Zoran Djindjic, whose minister you were, bought for 130m dollars and Zoran Djindjic publicly said it was the best job since the Second World War of a government, because what the Italians paid for 780 million for 130 million. Therefore, if the Telecom Development Account and that 49% were made, that means that we sold 4.5 billion euros in Telecom. You could never do it, you could never do it. These are facts, Mr. Vlahovic, you know it best, but of course when you want to turn in a different way, your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29726	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Mr. Wolf, allow me, the predecessor told me that Mr. Wolfelic was before you. Mr. Wolfellic, it's a business call if I'm not mistaken. Be kind, stick to the time, and we'll discuss it better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29727	Just one little clarification. First, it is an honor to Mr. Vlahovic and I must commend him for cooperating in privatisation under the 1997 law brought by the Socialists. I'm also glad that I can agree with that, with his claim that's true, that we didn't sell anything. It is not only correct to compare our sales of Telecom and a direct contract with any country in the environment, because Mr. Vlahovic, I yelled at him from the bench, knows that Serbia was under sanctions at the time. Thanks to these great friends of ours, Serbia was sanctioned in 1997, and you know very well that this is not a contract with anyone or anything, but that it is a contract that was made transparently, publicly and how that money was spent. You also know that any suspicion concerning Sartida and other matters has fallen off, because the Italian parliamentary commission, the Italian investigative authorities and our investigation bodies of Telekom failed to reveal the case, because nothing else was there. So we differ by concepts and we are and we are not wrong which is not '97. years of law made compulsory and not armed, but it couldn't be because we respected the constitution and what was written in the constitution until now that all property was equal; therefore the social property was equal with any other form of property. As for privatisation and other things, keep the socialists a lecture on what you don't do, you defend one of your models that is a legitimate model, which I don't think is good because I appreciate the model of working stock; I appreciate that model more, and there's a difference that we can never agree on, there's only one problem here. We made the biggest privatisation in Serbia, ever made, by privatising a housing fund in our concept, because we had it bought out if they lived in it. Since that privatisation, we have had another concept of property transformation that took place in '97. a year, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the SPS, and I'm afraid of workers, is superior. Finally, an example: Zravlje Leskovac, which was the same as Hemofarm Vrsac, was sold for 3.2m euros and Hemofarm for nearly 500m euros. That's the difference that speaks in favor of our privatisation, in addition to these examples that we mentioned around the Apache brewery and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29728	I thank Mr. Vukelic. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is still in the hall for the sake of the public and citizens of Serbia, and since we haven't talked about the subject on the agenda for a long time, since we're talking about privatisation, it is my obligation, as President of the Bor municipality, to inform the citizens of Serbia and MPs, that currently the biggest post-war robbery is happening in Serbia through the privatisation of the Mining-Topian Baseline Bor. It is the following: Privatization advisers, in terms of four audit houses, including the former, perhaps the current house of Mr. Vlahovic, have carried out an assessment of the assets by the three boys coming from Belgrade and estimated in two hours that RTB Bor is worth 300m euros. In doing so, RTB Bor was said to owe $77m instead of $600m. The previously designed policy introduced the restructuring process, so that, as the Privatisation Act requires, 100% of the ownership was sold and that workers could not have any action. I'm telling you this because copper is the largest natural resource the Republic of Serbia has. The Republic of Serbia participates in the world's copper reserves with 1.8%. Only one bed ore of energy was estimated at $20 billion over 40 years ago. Today, the entire RTB Bor assets are being sold for $266 million, and should be completed until November 22nd. The analyses say that over the next 24 years it will be possible to make more than $40 billion of pure profit with this copper price, which is expected to not fall. That is why I am informing the public of Serbia, your MPs, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is virtually non-existent tonight, that all privatisations should be suspended until elections are passed and a new government is established, which will be made by the SRS and which will not allow natural resources to remain so easily out of the domain and ownership of the state. And another important thing about the privatisation of RTB Bor. The law was broken during a public call for the collection of tender documentation. The call contains and sells two copper beds which can by no means be the subject of privatisation, can exclusively be subject to the concession law. So there's too much reason to put an end to all this. As for Mr Vlahovic's explanation of how four of the biggest exporters report the biggest losses because they are in the restructuring process, it is not true. You, like this government, introduced restructuring processes into companies before privatisation, and after the completion of the restructuring process went into privatisation, precisely for the reason that employees would lose their shares, to show a negative ratio of debt and capital and to be able to sell 100% of the ownership, instead of what would be a normal thing, that those who have created this property for 50 and over years have any benefit from that privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29730	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. I hope after that we can start with a series of MPs. Thank you. We're going in a row of registered MPs. The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic be prepared. Mr. Dusan Petrovic gives up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29731	Here, after an hour and something since you've called me, I've finally got a word to remind everyone who's here and everyone who's been watching this transmission that the agenda point is constitutional law, let's get back to the agenda. As far as the state's question is concerned, we haven't heard much about the constitutional law itself this whole time. I believe the Constitution was a state issue. Constitutional law has turned into a political issue. Constitutional law is a technical law, which speaks of when and within what deadlines the laws must comply with the new constitution, what it will all look like. It's a technical matter. Unfortunately, I repeat, this is where it turned into a political matter. We have remained principled and advocated and now for what we have advocated, which is that they must not make rotten compromises with the forces of the former regime. We do not understand why some parties who advocated the December elections until yesterday dropped the vote. Since all this is so and since this debate is united, i.e. At the same time we are also talking about amendments, I will say just a few words about the amendment to Article 3, which our party submitted, as well as the amendment to Article 5. As for the solutions in Article 3 adopted on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is that elections should be discussed within 60 to 120 days, I believe that this represents a really unnecessary and dangerous prolonging of parliamentary elections. For that prolonging, it's interesting, the party we've been listening to for three years is saying that she's ready for the election and wants the election to be called tomorrow. Now that they can be scheduled in a very short time, they want to be as soon as possible. Among other things, this is bad because we are giving the international community a bad signal that we are unserious and that we want to extend this election further to the solution for Kosovo and Metohija. Why is it bad, too? Serbian citizens expect a swift continuation of reforms. They expect it not to stop. Why is it still bad? We'll stay as a state for a long time without budget, i.e. will temporarily be financed from the new year, and that's not the budget. It will stop economic development for a while; the government, as it is now, will rule without full capacity. Today, there was talk of problems and the tragic death of a man in Kosovo. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we'll have other things to discuss, and we won't have a government for long. In addition, many laws, it can also be seen in constitutional law, should be brought into line with the Constitution. We must continue negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible. All of this doesn't make it necessary to extend the election. It turned out today, as in the palm of my hand, that some of the party interests, unfortunately, are above the state. It cannot be realistically explained why the state interests were that the referendum campaign should be reduced to the least possible, because it was the state's interest, and now suddenly it is no longer the interest of the state to hold parliamentary elections as soon as possible. It's hard to believe that the state's interest is different now. Serbia's radical party and the Socialist Party of Serbia should not have given in so much. Such a concession is a reflection of the blackmail of these parties, who said that if they do not, they will not vote for constitutional law. The democratic forces have shown an inadmissible weakness. That shouldn't have happened. I say, we have remained principled, we are still in favour and we are asking this Parliament to adopt our amendment, which stipulates that the elections are being held within 30 days, as the shortest deadline. It wouldn't fit 250 of you. As for the second amendment, it aims to protect the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. I'll talk about it very briefly, because it's all clear here. If you are the governor of the National Bank today in Serbia and if you raise the country's foreign reserves to a record level, and your foreign exchanges are not in Cyprus, if you have a strong dinar and a clear monetary policy, if you have a developed banking system and you are independent, above all in your work, in Serbia you will be replaced first chance. It's the result of a rotten compromise. Time will show in which way and who has agreed with whom, when the first session of the new parliament is held, is in constitutional law, and when the current governor is replaced. Of course, there is a Board of Governors. That's not what you're talking about, it doesn't matter, it's important to rescind the governor. We stand for expertise above politics, and here it's just the other way around. And one more thing: we will never make a pact with the Serbian Radical Party. We don't want to lose one month because we lost ten years. If we wanted a chair, we'd be in the government by the end of the term. The constitution would not yet be passed, and the negotiations with the European Union would not know if they would continue. G17 plus is for elections right now, and for a pact with radicals never. One more thing to say, at the beginning of the one-wheel he spoke of "what the coat of arms is born of time does not correct" – which the party of the DB is born of, the time is not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29732	Thank you, Mr. Humane. We're making a little change in order. Just to let you know, so you'll get the word, so Mr. Mircic will say, and then Mr. Vitosevic, because I can't have two MPs from the same parliamentary group speaking in a row if there are others. Here you go, replica, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29733	Mr. Todorovic, I'm going to end up just documentedly showing how they lied tonight, they escaped in most cases. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'd say, these complexes and these frustrations that appear to the Serbian Radical Party, I really can't help you. I can't, believe me. I've graduated from law school in Belgrade, and I need someone who's done some college a mile away from law school, and I'm really not in a situation, and I don't know what to tell you about all this stuff you're doing tonight. And Dr. Paja Momchilov went to Singapore for some professional training, so I apologize for that. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I know that hatred is the one who creates such qualities as this and which are manifested in this way. Look at the morale of these people. They are, of course, obsessed with the Serbian Radical Party, because we are their most serious opponent or strongest party in Serbia today, right behind G17. Unbound for all that, since they are not ashamed, to this day they have been in a government supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia, which they have criticised for God's sake, and it's all great and it's all right, it's our fault, I guess, because we didn't support them. That kind of immorality, the dirt to listen to, that doesn't make any sense. Here, it's okay, we're all on the globe of earthly guilt; and Lehman being Germany's first goalie, not Oliver Khan, it's the Serbian Radical Party. I expect that tomorrow, Branislav Rankic, who spoke about RTB Bor, will be indicted before The Hague tribunal for not defending Kan at the World Cup. I don't mind, but, Mr. Bogdanovic, I just got word from people, there's something very important that they haven't seen any lights, and they haven't been able to find the bridge, so it's better to go looking for that bridge, which you faked for the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, than you throw at something. Secondly, just please, if there is a possibility, Mr. Markovic, since we all kind of gave up the discussion, and some of the replicas, if these people have something else to say but "I hate the Serbian Radical Party", it would be good to say. If not, let them talk about it, but let them tell us how long it's gonna take to get back to the O.R., let's continue the debate on any question, because this doesn't make any sense. There's only one thing I need to tell you, and that's it. The more you show that you hate the Serbian Radical Party, because that's the only thing you can see from all your exhibitions, the more Serbian citizens love us, because that's the attitude of the citizens of Serbia towards you, and of course towards us. It suits us politically. Yeah, we're the only ones who stand up to you, and to you, and to these yellow ones, and to those from the DSS and everyone. We don't have any problem with that, but you can bring it down to some lower level, so it doesn't have all the resources against radicals, not being enemies, but being political opponents, that it's some kind of debate, a political dispute between us, but that it doesn't go any further than that. Like this, I think, it only hurts you. Here, as soon as Mr. Homan had this kind of hatred, he got sick and got out; when someone hates so much, it couldn't have happened otherwise. I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I call on you, continue to attack the Serbian Radical Party. Every word you say against Serbian radicals is our voice more, but feel free to put down a little, a little less hate and it'll be better for you. Please take care of the citizens of Serbia, our Serbia, our children, their future, because we are here for them, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29734	Thank you. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Sasa Vitoshević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a very important law, constitutional law, law on the implementation of the Constitution. What is the role of the Serbian Radical Party in the adoption and adoption of this law is widely known to the public. Today, the Serbian Radical Party has shown that, politically responsible and conscious of the historic moment, it can find a compromise. The compromise was in the sense that the adoption of a new constitution and the law that serves to implement this constitution clearly defines all obligations and the Assembly, and thus the MPs, as well as all the institutions of this state. We were faced with the fact that at one point, party, individual, personal and political interests can overcome the interests of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party has made a major compromise in this direction. We said the interests of the state and the interests of the people are above the interests of the Serbian Radical Party, above the political interests of any party. We found this compromise by setting the correct date for parliamentary elections. There were objections in terms – why not immediately all elections. The Serbian Radical Party has also shown good will for such proposals, but we have not met with determination on the other hand, in the sense that whoever wants the presidential elections has the instrument, has a way to hold these presidential elections, with the current incumbent president resigning and we will have almost at the same time elections, one behind the other. Let's leave it, it's the right of both the president and his political party to assess whether it's worth it, whether we can pass and adopt all the laws that are the precondition for the presidential election. There was also a proposal for the province's elections to be held at the same time as parliamentary elections. These proposals were based on simple logic. They are being extorted by the fact that in the province's parliament, a strange coalition potentiates major political problems and imposes them as priority problems, which are above Serbia's and Serbian citizens' interests. What led the Serbian Radical Party? It was managed by only one idea, the same idea which was dominant in the adoption of the Constitution proposal, which is to preserve the integrity and integrity of Serbia, the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. Everything else is less important. We are not people exclusively in politics that we said – you did not accept the proposal for the president of Serbia to be elected in parliament, we do not want to participate in the constitution. No, we don't care. Our intentions were sincere and well-intentioned, that parliament chooses the president, for several reasons, because parliamentary democracy is the only way and way to equalise, both programme and political, the functioning of the executive and legislative and the functions of the president. This is how we were prisoners of various political programs and different political attitudes, but we said – if you don't want to, gentlemen, please. It is important for us to define in the Constitution the clear position of Kosovo and Metohija in the preamble of the Constitution. It is clear to us, as a political party based on its reality on the number of MPs, that Serbia is facing reforms. These reforms are inevitable. Among other things, there is an integration process ahead for Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party, which is for all types of integration, has made it clear that it will not be integrated, will not enter those processes without disintegrating Serbia's territory. That was completely clear. It's a minimum Serbia couldn't go under. As for when parliamentary elections will be held, I think full consent has been reached on the Committee. All relevant political parties agreed clearly before this session. We are aware of the fact that we are now facing major resistances, as well as during the referendum activities for the adoption of the proposal for a constitution. Not only did some extraparliamentary parties act with a position against referendums, but some parliamentary ruling parties also made clear their actions, appeals and public appearances made it clear to the Serbian public that they were against adopting the constitution. Now we are present at one absurd -- that the representatives of this same political party, which is ruling, teach us a lesson about democracy, patriotism. But never mind, political morality and life is one relative category. It is the citizens of Serbia who will clearly assess January 21st who has acted in what way. These anti-state political parties can never question the SRS's government policy. The Serbian Radical Party will vote for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29736	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Messenger Sasa Vitoshević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29737	Of course I'll teach you a lesson from democracy, because we created such an atmosphere in the country today that democratic elections can be held. Remember how we replaced power in the 1990s – we replaced it by protesting for months on the streets against stealing in the elections. Just so much for lessons from democracy. To return to the topic of today's session, it's the law on the implementation of the Constitution. The very modern phrase of the last few days is the phrase of compromise. Let's explain to the citizens of Serbia whether the compromises made these days and, of course, the compromise that was reached behind closed doors in this building were made in the interests of the citizens or in the interests of the political parties that the compromise had reached. It is a very simple answer: this constitutional law, as proposed, with amendments adopted, represents a compromise made in the interest of political parties. The G17 plus has always been against the fact that party interest is put above the state's interest. I'll remind you that we proved it this morning, insisting that this House finally determines the resignations of our ministers. We believe, therefore, that we have submitted an amendment to shorten the time to hold parliamentary elections, gentlemen and ladies, the citizens of Serbia, that Serbia does not have time to wait a month to re-establish and form a new government of the Republic of Serbia and to continue implementing reforms. If you think there's time and dates to adjust how it fits the SRS, the SPS, then there's no problem. I'd like to hear from DS representative, DSS why no G17 plus proposal has been accepted. So you can deal easier with representatives of the red-and-black coalition than with the G17 plus. No problem, we understand that. I hope the citizens of Serbia understand that. To me, the ears were parallel to a sentence spoken by the motionary on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Loncar, saying -- for this law on the implementation of the Constitution will be voted by those who love Serbia. In the 21st century, after all that Serbia and Serbian citizens have survived, should we continue to share citizens, based on one technical law on the implementation of the Constitution, on those who love and those who do not love Serbia. G17 plus will always be against it. That is why we have proposed an amendment that clearly needs to protect one of the most important institutions in the field of monetary policy, which is the National Bank of Serbia. Not because Governor Radovan Jelasic is. I am telling you that we will always defend the stability of the institutions because we have fought bloodyly to build institutions in Serbia over the past six years, all together, from democratic changes, from the ashes raised by the institutions we found in 2000. We won't let behind closed doors trade in the seats of the governor of the National Bank, it doesn't matter. It is important that for much less important institutions than the National Bank of Serbia first wait to comply with the laws on these institutions and only then to re-election or selection of new managers of these institutions, and only in the National Bank of Serbia, without changing and harmonising the National Bank Act, should first be re-election of governors. No problem. Those who have made these compromises may explain to the citizens of Serbia why they are troubled by stability in the sphere of monetary policy. We know it's a clean and naked political trade. Do not claim that this compromise has been made in terms of the rapid adoption and completion of the Constitution. This is technical law. All this controversy that has been led today and in recent days is to satisfy the interests of individual political parties. We'll explain to the people in the campaign who had the interests of making compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29738	National MP Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29739	First of all, the Democratic Party has a very simple policy on the issue: there is no real implementation of the Constitution if there is no constitutional law; there is no constitutional law unless there are two-thirds of the votes in this House. We could have had an alternative -- we had a constitution and we didn't have constitutional law. We can sense the consequences of this country if we don't have that constitutional law. That's the first thing. That's what anyone who looks at us in these late hours doesn't need any legal education or any political subjugation. Leaving a country without constitutional law is a policy that is not responsible for the people who live in this country. Second, the law was passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He was sitting in that government until a few hours ago, G17 plus. The bill was established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't hear until a few hours ago that you had any objection to that proposal. I will be interested in the stenogram, I hope it can be obtained from that session of the government, as the G17 Plus ministers voted, whether they were for this law or against this law. It seems to me that the G17 plus in the government will turn out to have voted in favour of the bill. The bill states that the governor of the National Bank will, among other things, be elected within a period that will follow the adoption of the constitutional law. So the facts are very simple and simple, so they don't deserve us to spend more time on them. In the end, I would say something that in this entire Corps of Issues is an inevitable fact – an amendment to the draft law, adopted by the government, that the deadline for parliamentary elections should be shifted from 45 to 60 days, submitted by National Assembly President Predrag Markovic. Mr. Predrag Markovic is the honorary president of the G17 Plus party. Guys, I don't know what you want or what your policy is, what your problem is. Your honorary president has submitted an amendment, which you say is unpatriot or something. Of course, we will debate these facts, but the facts cannot escape.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29740	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29741	Let me just say to my colleague and his party associates - we have no intention of dealing with you anymore, but I have to notice that you're acting like a married man, you're looking for a groom in this assembly. With one of the grooms, you might even get into bed with no dinars, and maybe with us radicals, just to pay you. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Excuse me, please, it's a matter of taste and choice, you've changed a lot of beds to allow yourself such luxury. Your basic question when challenging this law was contained in the fact that you did not adopt an amendment. Well, as good as you are, the amendment best shows what Dusan Petrovic talked about – your Honorary President did not vote in favour of the amendment, because it is so meaningful. What's your goal? What you failed through your official representatives in the government, you're trying now. But you are aware of the fact that you have no real power, no power, no political justification. Then this speaker serves you to compete with the Serbian Radical Party in politics. You know, there's a good saying in the people -- when a sparrow attacks an eagle, the eagle just says "ish." We have no intention of plowing with you anymore. [[Applause radically and shout "ish."]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29742	According to the Rules of Procedure, there's a word... Replica, MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29743	Gentlemen of the Radicals, do you have a problem? Will you, Mr. Markovic, calm the radicals, because they're nervous, so I can speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29744	Mr. Albianic, I shut you down and I'll answer what you asked me. Take your replica down to three minutes, so you don't re-route the replica series. We used to have a nice pace of work, until a representative from your group showed up, and then we got into replicas and mutual accusations. That way we won't do anything, because we have ten more speakers. Express your line, and don't call me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29745	As you noticed, I'm in the opening statement... (Glass by the Radicals interferes with the speaker.) What problems do you have? When you learn decent, cultural, civilized behavior, come to the pay phone and tell me what you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29746	Please don't throw it to the MP behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29747	I forgot to tell you that I'm employed at the Educational and Educational Advancement Department. That education has been dropped over the last decade and a half, but we'll try to make one project for you, too, if you're in the mood for that domain of education. You have to behave, you know that. It is not my aim to courteousize you here, because in this assembly I have repeatedly denied and the relationship of G17 plus to the Serbian Radical Party is clear, expressed in the speeches of our MPs, as well as in my personal position. I am surprised that, in the context of the assembly debate, you radicals and Democrats are taking into consideration the amendments of Mr Markovic's Assembly President, and he is the fruit of a mutual agreement between the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party. It's not just your deal, it's everyone else's, except G17 plus. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic took that role to write an amendment agreed by the heads of the parliamentary clubs, without my smallness. So don't let us continue our empty stories, debates and debates at midnight and make up different stories. That's the truth I wanted to tell you about the pay phone, not wanting to discuss it any further, because it's enough and we want to end this assembly debate, so we can part as people. Tonight, I would like to say that a clearly used assembly speaker for political debates and the positioning of political parties prior to the start of the election campaign. I'm not sure it's that much of an effect on what you're going to say at the campaign tonight, because she's expecting us in the next period. If the election is your will in January of the month, this will certainly be forgotten, but it will remain a bitter impression of those of us who work here and argue that we had to do something like this ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29748	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. He's got a replica of Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I just answered the line about the red-black coalition story, and I don't know what else, the story of chauvinism, and I don't know what else, I'd say next. Probably most of our people, members and supporters of the Serbian Radical Party, are no longer affected, as they are already used to it. I suggest the chairman that he might be able to introduce a balloon that's blowing to see who's in what condition after a certain time of session. You know I'm right and I didn't ask you for that. With the story of the red-black coalition, I won't talk about the work relating to the Socialist Party of Serbia, because they have their representatives, I want to ask those who think they're very smart the following: that they don't say "black" because in our people, when you say that they remind those who have done the most evil to the Serb family, they usually remind us of Ustashas who have committed the most serious crimes against our people in black uniforms. Please don't do this, I happen to belong to a family that was most seriously injured by a Ustasha knife, so I don't like being told that we're the same as them. I know many others, and in the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party and other political parties, who have similar experience and that is nothing funny, Mr Albianic, but it seems that the balloon no longer works. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to say more about the story itself, G17 plus tonight a few words...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29750	Come on, please, let's get this over with, let Mr. Wolfie speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29751	Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Chairman, I am bringing the end, I have nothing to say for all of this, and I really ask that for all afternoon sessions in the future, in some future parliament, we have this balloon, there will be much less problems in the debate in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29752	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word is Mr Rajko Baralic, and let the MP of the people Snezana Stanojevic-Plasic be prepared after Mr Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29753	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Red and Black, good book, Standal, read it. She's not ugly, you know. As for the coalition of parties, it is a coalition of the people; the parties represent the citizens, MPs are a sublime people's will in parliament, whatever the citizens may do, and the parties that represent them. It's not a topic anymore. 20 minutes ago, a quiet day of the Mitrovica Wings expired, and I wanted to congratulate those who had the chance to celebrate in peace, so it's not like... To you, Professor, I congratulate you on your fame. It's not like there's any hard words falling on a mild day, we declared the Constitution yesterday. Constitutional law, if it were luck like when the Constitution was passed in 1990, we would have been given together with the Constitution proposal, so the citizens and the MPs would have had the opportunity to see with the Constitution and the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution. This is how serious states and serious governments and serious MPs do it; it does not mean that we are not, but those who did it at the time were both more responsible and more serious. As for the date, the compromise is never a fifti-fifti agreement, but it is always such an agreement that one party loses more and the other one gets more. You lose more of that side that's weaker. That's how it's done in business, in politics, in all other circumstances. It's not the end of the world. How strong someone shows when it's the right time, and if he misses that moment, his strength was in vain. It's very important in politics. I have the honour to belong to the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs who had a good estimate that at some point this power shows and demonstrates it as its political will and its real political strength. We all made an honest contribution together to the constitution, which was generally necessary. Also, tonight's or tomorrow's decision, i.e. by voting on constitutional law, we will round up an important job. Given that this is the last session, I would like to express my satisfaction that I have had the opportunity with the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, the G17 Plus, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, New Serbia, the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction, the Serbian Democratic Party, the Liberal Party and the Party of the list for Sandzak, the Social Democratic Party, to face views, along with my colleagues. It was once not easy, but I hope that as people, as fellow MPs, we understood that political struggle is not an enemy struggle, political struggle involves facing political views. I am leaving this session in the belief that it is possible, on behalf of Serbian citizens, to discuss Serbia and to make decisions, and everything else, of course, will be the subject of a political campaign that begins as much as this moment. We will have opportunities, I hope, in an atmosphere that is both honorable and democratic, to present our political programmes and that here in this home MPs from our political parties are reunited, and those who are most skilled and willing to form a new government that will do everything possible to move Serbia, if possible, in another and better direction. I also want to say that since 1990 there have been 15 choices and simply to remind myself that it is not true that elections have been held in such or such an atmosphere; elections are held in the atmosphere that political parties create, they are responsible for the environment. If we conduct these elections in a more correct political atmosphere than you appreciate that it was before, then that means that we have had the strength to get closer to the level of understanding that we understand, and to differ in what is important to us, to bring our political colors and our political programmes closer to our voters in the best possible way to our target groups. I would like, if that were possible, to raise the level of tolerance in the next session to a higher level. I conclude this address by regretting that this congregation in this congregation did not have the power to pass the Law on the National Assembly. We had enough understanding to pass 200 laws, to come up with a proposal and declare the Constitution, but we weren't able to grow very small differences and pass the Law on the National Assembly. We ourselves are responsible that there is still a supremacy of the executive over the legislative authority in Serbia. I hope that some other MPs and some other assembly will not allow the Minister of Finance to be older and will have enough power and understanding to resolve this issue, because one who is unable to pass a law on the National Assembly has a serious constructive error. We had every prerequisite to do so at a time when we practically had a consensus on the matter. I hope that happens, because it really doesn't make sense that it works that way in the future. In the end, I would like to say that January 21st is not a good date for the elections, although we will vote for it. It is not easy to organise a campaign in Serbia's values, it is not easy to reach every village in Serbia. You can't campaign just for the media. I hope someone didn't count on urban Serbia to solve the new assembly of parliament, but if someone had that idea, we won't let it be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29754	The People's Messenger, Snježana Stojanović-Plasic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29755	Dear ladies and gentlemen, many times during tonight's debate we had the opportunity to hear what Serbia's highest state interest is and to call for Serbia's highest state interest. The G17 Plus party knows what the highest state interest in Serbia means and knows even better what it means to subdue the party's interest to the highest state interests. Since the start of this government, we've understood it well and we've done so. Our voters, our sympathisers, unfortunately, once did not understand it, but we were ready to agree to it and we kept working on what we believed to be Serbia's highest state interest, which is reforms in Serbia. For the past few months, that's been pretty clear. We knew that it was Serbia's highest state interest to adopt the Constitution and I reminded you of that as much as at the last session, if you remember. Is constitutional law Serbia's highest state interest right now? It's a political question. It is possible, but the way we had the debate on him tonight shows that it is not quite so, but that it is estimated that there are higher party interests, which is the question of choice, when elections, what are deadlines for elections, and how some of the parties that have been having a campaign tonight will be campaigning during the next period. What does the G17 plus think? We think Serbia's highest interest is a stable government, a government that will be credible to resolve very important issues of Serbia, which is, above all, the issue of joining the European Union and, of course, the issue of Kosovo's status negotiations. Also, we believe Serbia's highest state interest is a stable dinar. It has always been important to us, and we have always felt that this is a very important issue for Serbia and we have shown by our work that we are able to make the money stable. What's our policy? That's what some people asked tonight. The G17 Plus policy is the achievement of our basic goal, which is an economically developed, modern, European Serbia, whose highest interest is in Serbia's citizens. What were we doing to achieve that goal, and what was G17 plus policy in the first place? Many said they didn't understand. Great, you gave me a chance to remind you of G17 plus policy. G17 plus policy, as I said, is a stable dinar. G17 plus policy is a reform of the banking system, so we can all save, so we can get credits. G17 plus policy is a tax system in Serbia that will allow everyone to pay taxes fairly and to use the benefits of that tax fairly. So, a stable budget. I think we are all witnessing that Serbia's budget is now stable. How do we know that? Very simply, teachers regularly receive salaries, doctors receive salaries, salaries grow as much as possible, but in any case the middle layer in Serbia now exists. There are many more poor, unfortunately, and it is a great challenge in the future, but the middle class exists and the G17 plus is proud of that result. Pensions are regular and many pensioners wonder what will happen in the future. If the budget remains stable, if the dinar remains stable, if the strengthening of Serbia's economic system continues, of course pensions will remain stable and the G17 plus will continue to take serious care of it. That's G17 plus policy, too. What else is the G17 plus policy? Ensure the inflow of foreign investments. In this year, it's $4 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29756	Mrs. Plassic, it's not the theme of politics G-17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29757	You will allow, the topic is the deadline for elections, when elections are due in Serbia, and our view is that elections in Serbia should be as soon as possible, so you will allow me to talk about why we think that is the case. What else is the G17 plus policy? Health reform, health investments. Should I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how the health care of the 1990s worked? Do I need to remind you how much investment has entered Serbia's health in previous years, when this ministry was part of G17's responsibility plus? I'll tell you about my Leskovac, it's 6 billion euros. Lesbian health doesn't remember such a big investment over the years, all together. During the previous two years, 11 halls for angiography were made in Serbia, and only two over the past 11 years. This means the diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases that are among the first causes of mortality in Serbia. Is that important to the citizens of Serbia? We believe it is, we believe it is Serbia's state interest. A public health promotion, and not to tell what's been done in health care. Investments in 150 health homes, emergency reconstructions of 150 health homes in Serbia. So there's a lot we've done. Agriculture, a strategy to develop agriculture, investments in agriculture, loans in agriculture, incentives for rural development and, ultimately, care for the poorest and those who are unable to fight the agricultural market, which is the means to help non-commercial households which have a significant impact on poverty reduction in Serbia. So that's G17 plus policy and that's the results we've achieved in this government and we're really proud of, for a reason. What's going on right now? We think it is very important that the institutions in Serbia remain stable. We think it is very important that Serbia has a stable government that will be credible in all the processes that await us. That's why it's not a good solution, that's why. It is our idea that it is not a good solution to change the governor at the first next session of the Assembly. Why isn't that a good idea? Because, among other things, it is a violation of the law and the constitution that states that the National Bank is an independent institution that preserves, above all, the financial stability of the Serbian state. Do we have any objections to the work of the governor so far? Are there any conditions in which he should be resolved? Yes, we have defined them: if he committed a crime, if he was unprofessionally doing his job, if he was in poor health, if he was giving false information, and if the general conditions are not met. None of these conditions are satisfied. What's satisfied? They satisfied the results of the work, a stable dinar, an 11 billion-dollar foreign reserve, a 3 billion-euro foreign savings, a domestic savings savings of 5 billion dinars. Was that ever in Serbia? It wasn't. Is the governor good? It's not good. For what reason? Only for political reasons. This is what the G17 plus will not agree to, because our institutions are important to us, because the stability of Serbia's financial system is important to us. You asked what we wanted. I'll tell you what we want. We want the election in 30 days. It's an amendment we've been working on. Why within 30 days? Because we believe that time is not an ally of Serbia. Someone said we had two months to campaign. What does the citizens of Serbia care how much time we have for the campaign? Serbia has no time for such campaigns. Serbia must be in a hurry. I think we're all okay with that. Do we really have time for the campaign? It may be better to have 3.4 months, we may achieve better results, but Serbia has no time to wait 3 and 4 months for the next government, because negotiations on Kosovo are under way, because we need to continue negotiations with the EU and because we need to bring the budget. Are we going to be financed temporarily by March of the month? Do you think it's good to temporarily finance, when every day is a longer-term financing problem for Serbia?- I'm sorry. The problem is for those teachers, for doctors, for all those who receive salaries. So that's not a good solution. Our idea is that Serbia is in a hurry, that we have to go to elections, we have nothing to be afraid of. What we've been doing so far, it's our face, we don't need any special campaigns. So let's go to the election, let's after that shape the government, whatever that government is, whatever someone has results, good or bad. It is important for the government to exist, to have a budget, it is important that from the New Year's, we start with a new government, a new budget, to start negotiations with the EU, and to start negotiating with Kosovo as a credible partner. You all said it was important to everyone. Let's prove it's important. Stable institutions, a stable dinar, a stable government, a stable Serbia, that's what's important for G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29758	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and after it, let the Messenger Jovan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29759	Ladies and gentlemen, whenever decisions were made in Serbia of the general national interest of the SRS put these state and state interests ahead of the parties. This was the case in the construction, adoption and declaration of this current, Mitrovica Constitution. I will remind you of the time when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was formed, when representatives of the Serbian Radical Party insisted that the constitution be seriously drawn up. And then there were significant obstructions, it lasted almost three years, but eventually, thanks to the most SRS, the text of the Constitution was drawn up. Again thanks to the SRS, we have successfully completed a referendum to confirm that constitution and, no matter how you react, the faces, to what I say, these are facts and that is the truth. It is true that Tomislav Nikolic has repeatedly called for access to the making of constitutional text. Of course, there was no good will, and in particular it was not by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, who at the time did not want elections, as he does not want them now, but only talks. At the time, when we thought it was good for Serbia to discuss elections at all levels, there was no understanding, then Boris Tadic was not yet on the Cedi line, so he was not in the mood for the elections and he did not call on the line, and tonight he was more times repeated that the SRS did not want the elections. I have to explain to you, it was explained by colleagues who used to say that the SRS only thinks that at this point and this year it's not good to call the election. We are therefore pleased, as we are pleased that before that we have managed to install into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, most of all, the SRS programme, which we have managed to build into the Constitution through the creation of this constitutional law, the law on the implementation of the Constitution, into what is really the national interest of Serbia at this point. I'll tell you a few words about the constitutional campaign and calling the citizens for a referendum, and I'll remind you of those two days of the referendum. We weren't exactly in a position to advertise on this subject in public, but we certainly led the constitutional campaign most seriously, and we sincerely urged citizens to come out for a referendum, deliver our views, tell the citizens of Serbia that acceptance, i.e. the adoption of the Constitution, in fact, means the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Thank God, we did it, especially on the second day of the referendum, when SRS activists called on citizens and individually to go to the referendum, to vote. On that day, while the referendum was still being held, representatives of parties who rule our municipal committees came to thank the SRS activists. And the next day, when it was definitely known that the Constitution had been accepted, they were also coming, thanking, saying- thank you, brothers of radicals, if it hadn't been for you, there wouldn't have been a Constitution. Of course, we knew that without these thanks to them, because we know exactly how many members and supporters of the SRS have gone to this referendum, and because of this knowledge and this fact, we've been doing it all night, tonight, today, since we've been working, we claim that in these elections, we will certainly be the best and that we will win the best election result. This is where the most talk was about this Article 3. I, too, must, first of all, as a lawyer, explain to you some things, why this member had to be changed and why the SRS MPs voted in the Committee for the amendment of Predrag Markovic. Simply, the elections before the end, or before the second half of January, would not be a good solution for Serbia, primarily because of the fact that more and more from the West we hear some signs of a bad solution for Kosovo and Metohija. In particular, it would not be good if the presidential elections were held at the same time, as Serbia would happen not to have any bodies in one period that could properly represent Serbia's interests. We would also have the government in resignation and the president in resignation, the Assembly too, so that it could have a very negative impact on the possible resolution of Kosovo and Metohija's status. I was pretty impressed tonight, under quotes, of course, by how some of my colleagues gave some farewell speeches, like - the assembly won't work anymore, they won't ambush anymore, we won't pass the laws. I think you're obviously my fellow colleagues, in great error, or you haven't read the text of the Constitution, especially you who haven't voted for it, so I'm not surprised you haven't read it. I must remind you, in order to honor the agreement between the political parties regarding the appointment, or the holding of presidential elections, which is until 31 May 2007, we have to pass quite a number of laws. We must, in accordance with the Constitution, pass the law on the National Assembly, the law on the President of the Republic, the law on defence, the law on the military, the law on judges, the regulation of courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Without these eight laws, it can't work. Despite this law that we are talking about tonight, the constitutional law, which, I am quite sure, will be passed tonight, we will still not be able to apply the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the right way. That's why I remind you of Article 109. The Constitution, at Section 7, which says that when disbanded, the National Assembly only performs ongoing or urgent tasks by law. So this is a newspaper compared to this earlier constitution, which one of my fellow MPs says is a breakup with that former constitution. I, again, as a lawyer, must remind you that and how there is continuity between the previous constitution and this present constitution, and he is being examined, above all, in the fact that this constitution has been adopted in accordance with the provisions of the previous constitution. That, fellow lawyers, and what the continuity of the constitution means. So do not deceive your voters that you have adopted, or that we have adopted a constitution that has created some kind of discontinuity with the previous constitution. It wasn't, it wasn't possible. In addition to these changes in this constitution, this Article 109, I repeat, attitude 7, which obliges us as the National Assembly to, and when the Assembly is disbanded, and this will likely be during today, and when parliamentary elections are called for on January 21st, we have an obligation to carry out ongoing or urgent tasks. These are certainly, em current, em urgent affairs, and I will inform you, since tonight it was obvious that MPs of all political parties, other than Serbian radicals, consider this today and tonight's session the last in this session, which means that you are not prepared to work in accordance with Article 109. The constitution, that the Serbian Radical Party MP group, even though it will participate very actively throughout Serbia in the upcoming election campaign, all these eight laws that I have read to you propose to this parliament. Of course, we expect all of you to show that you are truly serious and responsible and that we will bring all these laws, so that we can apply the Constitution, or say that we have a basis for applying the Constitution. If we wait for these elections, then the presidential elections, then despite the constitution's adoption, despite the adoption of this law tonight, we will bring Serbia into an incredible legal collapse. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party will not allow that. We will actively participate in Parliament's work until the constitution of the next one, and only after the constitution of the next call for Parliament, since we will be the majority in Parliament, at an accelerated pace will we bring and bring all the laws into line, just as the Constitution and this constitutional law provide.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29760	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. Your parliamentary group has five minutes left, Mr. Todorovic. After Mr. Todorovic, the word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29761	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, in this small hour and I will tell you how I feel about the constitutional law that we should start implementing the new constitution. We were in this home yesterday, already yesterday, declaring a good one, I would say, even, an excellent constitution, and today, unfortunately, we are considering one, I would say, less good, even a bad constitutional law on the implementation of that constitution. Why do I think that? First of all, most speakers put the elections in the first place, so it turns out that we made the Constitution just to have some choices. I would say that this constitution has so many other, much greater and more important values than the elections themselves, it's simply unthinkable that most of them don't talk about it. I would like to remind you and those who watch the television broadcast of this session in these small hours that everything that was worth in the previous constitution is in the new, adopted text of the Constitution. I will start with article 1 which says Serbia is a state of Serbian people and all citizens living in Serbia, but also a state based on the rule of law and social justice. If there were no specifics in Article 1, I am sure that neither the Socialist Party Group nor the citizens who support the Socialist Party, nor other citizens, would have gone to the referendum in the required number and confirmed with their votes the Constitution that we have proposed to them. The social justice society is necessary, it is imperative precisely in this time of transition, when many are poor, when many are discouraged, when many are unemployed and when many are responsible for the government and the role of the state in all this. So the social policy section is also the reason for my pleasure. The section relating to compulsory primary, free education, a provision relating to free secondary education, are all the values that have been taken over from the previous constitution. Right to work, too. That is why we need to have a responsible authority and a responsible policy in the future, which will enable this right to work, above all, for those millions of people who are unemployed to come to work and live from their work. I could talk about this longer and more specifically, but given the time limit, now I'm going to focus your attention on what I think is weak in this constitutional law. First of all, I think it's very bad that primate is given to these election provisions. We didn't make the Constitution just to have choices. It's very bad that we bid on it for months and days, which some are reportedly in a hurry. I think January 21st is a very bad date for holding elections. It was a much better date on February 4th, or some date in March. January is the month of glory, the month of holidays, religious, Orthodox, etc., the month of winter and poor unfavourable conditions that will certainly affect the poor turnout of citizens in these elections. The lack of this constitutional law is that some amendments to the Socialist Party's MPs, who, among other things, have proposed to adopt the law on the National Assembly and the law on the President of the Republic at the first meeting of the National Assembly in the new assembly. It has been said that over 260 laws have been passed in these incomplete three years of Parliament's work. Is it possible that we could not pass a law on the National Assembly that would precisely regulate the rights of MPs, both during the term of office and after the term of office? I am saying this because we have repeatedly witnessed the haste of this parliament, the collapse of the authority of this highest home in the Republic of Serbia and of us as MPs, both personally and grouply. Many have called us for the work we have invested in the past three years. Some even called us tailless cattle, etc. We didn't find the strength to deal with those, first of all, by passing laws on ourselves. When it comes to the law on the President of the Republic, I remind you that in 2001, in that assembly, thanks to that DOS-dominated majority, we passed a freak law -- a law on the President of the Republic and the rights of the President of the Republic. I remind both you and all citizens that it was a tenorous law, directed, above all, against the now late President Slobodan Milosevic, who was formerly president of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, it was said that he would be protected by a police officer, but without weapons, and would be provided with elements of the service by a worker or a caterer, a server. It was then an overture for his illegal arrest and counter-constitutional extradition of so-called. The Hague tribunal, on Vidovdan. That is why my colleagues Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and I have proposed an amendment proposing that those two laws be passed at the first meeting: the Law on the National Assembly and the Law on the President of the Republic, so that no President of the Republic will experience the fate of those who come after him to do something that means violation of fundamental human rights, as was done in the case of former President Slobodan Milosevic. So that's what you should have done. Unfortunately, there was no understanding. That's why I think this constitutional law is bad. In spite of this, we, as a parliamentary group, will also vote in favour of this constitutional law, just so that we can apply those basic values that have been taken over from the previous constitution, and as regards the entire Corps of Issues - and social justice, social equality, labour rights, social protection, health care, education security at all levels at the most favourable conditions, so that we can apply this constitution, so that we can make every future authority subject to that constitution. The ultimate reason for the adoption of the Constitution is, in fact, the need of Serbian citizens, imperatives, and us as MPs, and states as a whole, to preserve Kosovo and Metohija as part of the state of Serbia, in no way and under any circumstances allow Kosovo and Metohija to disappear as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that no one in the Constitution can and should accept such a state of violence in which, possibly, so-called. The international community has decided that Kosovo and Metohija are no longer in Serbia. That's the first and the ultimate reason why we're talking about this tonight and why we're going to vote for a constitutional law that's going to start applying the provisions of the Constitution that we declared at Mitrovdan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29762	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29763	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the constitution as one country's highest legal act is only a framework in the process of rounding up the rule of law. We Serbian worked, with the highest degree of responsibility, human and moral, above all, as patriots, as those who have spent their whole life seeking respect for our traditional values and the highest state and national interests, in the past 16 years have advocated strict respect for the constitutional procedure when talking and talking about Serbia's need for a new constitution. However, all those who settled in a number of political diletaries, failed political parties, who once had a larger foothold in the electoral body, in the early 1990s, could not possibly explain to our president, the most familiar with constitutional procedures since Serbia adopted the Sretenski Constitution, Professor Vojislav Seselj, in order to change the past constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He is now the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the product of new historical and political circumstances, those which, unfortunately, started here, in this, now, the House of the National Assembly, in the former SRJ Assembly, or, to move on, the SFRY. I was an MP at the National Council of the Federal Assembly from 1996 to 2000. As early as 1997, it was clear that the Separatist, now regime, and then the Corps, headed by Milo Djukanovic from the DPS, is openly moving towards anti-Serbian hysteria and in a campaign to break national ethnic and cultural space. They got a swing and wings with the help of their Western mentors, America and Western forces, above all, with all their support, here, you saw a few days ago, and the Cypriot separatists, which Djukanovic showed by receiving the murderer and the villain, the slaughterer of Ceku in the middle of Podgorica. It was already clear at the time, and only the Serbian radicals recognized it from this pay phone. First of all, the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj said he was preparing a great evil for the Serbian people. Unfortunately, that happened, on 21 May of this year, in a referendum, which the separatists, headed by Milo Djukanovic, organised in Montenegro. There has been a break in that and that of Serbia-Montenegro's state unions. And, for breaking the SRJ and this state community, the greatest responsibility is borne by you who on 5 October, in an illegal and anti-constitutional manner, entered this building of the Federal Assembly, who indeed survived through the history of Serbia and carried everything and everything on its shoulders, not this building as a building, but the people's representatives, who from that time back in 1835, until today came across various constitutional crises, vacuums and violations of constitutional regulations. This was especially done by one of the greats of our science. That is what our president wrote in his book "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism". I tell it to those who have a funny, above all, political ignorance, because those who are lawyers are laughing at the profession. It is a serious matter, because we Serbs as a people have had an accident when we adopt new constitutions, in this process and in this vacuum, the state is going west in the constitutional and legal crisis. Professor Laza M. Kostic, a famous Bokelic Serb, who wrote about it in emigration in the late 1950s, gave a clear retrospective of all these events and showed and wrote it precisely because there was a guideline to all those who wanted to deal with politics, to lead the state and the people, because it was a violation of the constitutional procedure between the adoption of two constitutions that could be recorded with one people and leaving a negative mark and seal on those who did so. It happened between the two world wars. It happened in Broz, communist time, and so are you, from that so-called. The Democratic Corps, all the time, advocated this until the constitution was passed and declared at Mitrovica this year, 2006. It didn't work out for you, so when you saw it, you talked about it all the time, and especially those who call themselves the Democrats, as the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will win in its legal power and importance tonight, is a discontinuity with the previous constitution, with a constitution from that Milosevic time. That is not true, because this constitution, which we declared yesterday, is at Mitrovdan, and which tonight, in the right sense of the word, will begin to apply, by adopting this law, is being brought in by the procedure prescribed by the previous constitution. As serious people and serious politicians, with this only possible variant, we have entered into the adoption of a new constitution, not only because of these, recently mentioned, new, to the misfortune of the Serbian people, political circumstances and separation, that is, what separatists Milo Djukanovic did, but also because of the fact that part of Serbia, the cradle of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, is the most endangered at the moment. You did not follow closely, and the citizens of Serbia did, I know that, because tonight, in some ominous comments and cynical views about the SRS, I suppose, out of anger and infirmity, because you will be losers in the January 21st election next year, you have shown that the people have recognized this state attitude and that responsibility. What stood on the billboards you can see tonight in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac -- "I swear to all my strengths to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia" -- signed by the "President of the Republic". Has the current president of the Republic of Boris Tadic mentioned such a matter in the referendum campaign at any time -- not at all. Whether he spoke at a session at which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted -- it did not. He spoke only of the elections and tied himself to only one date, later on March 17th or 20th, or December 24th, but it could not go so easily, for the reason that in the country, any future moves in which people will judge whom to show confidence -- first of all, the Serbian Radical Party will decide. So the people will, and because there are most of us, because we are organized, with the awareness that the fate of the people and the state is at stake, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, the referendum day did everything to make the percentage of those who went out as great as possible and that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia can finally, tonight, have its own application. I'm saying all this because how long will the election campaign start tomorrow? If Boris Tadic today, at the invitation of Michael Polt, because he knew the "formule one", visited the "Ferari" Company, why he did not visit Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija a month ago to leave the "half" starting position, as racers would say, and that is the one who has the best time to pass on qualifications. He was very wrong, starting from his line and position, which shows that his interest is only a function, which he will perform for only a few months, not the interest of the state and the people. In order for the elections to take place in the democratic atmosphere, campaigns need to be conducted by people who have learned and learned democracy for the past 16 years. There are attractive people who have tried to do it over the past few years, but that was short of breath, you know which party I mean, because it's hard to imagine that they're going to skip the 5% censorship and that they're going to be a parliamentary party again. Don't think we're going to save someone, because we're going to send people clear messages -- we want democratic and free Serbia, but without crime and corruption. We want you to stop lying, because what we heard here tonight, the praises of former ministers and those who supported them -- fantastic pensions, health care all available, workers doing and so on, insults the dignity of my fellow citizens, of which 40,000 people are not working, and two days ago he started the process of re-release at the car factory, under some principle of volunteering. So it was said, by the Democratic Party, and four years ago, when they fired 4,000 workers in the Zastava factory in one day, in words - go, it's a restructuring programme, a social programme, voluntary, which means - either you're going to jump off the tenth floor yourself or we're going to push you. We want things in Serbia to change, and we think we can, no matter what you think, because it's about your acuity and ignorance. You will not see what you have done negatively, all in all, for the past six years and certainly, for that responsibility is borne by Vojislav Kostunica. In all, for journalists described, the dramatic content of the negotiations promised to follow its famous slogan "The Word Is a Word". He must meet this because the elections were made quite certain on January 21st next year, as it is clear that the largest number of voters will be won by the Serbian Radical Party, as Jerek Kostunica, given in talks before the Democratic Party, will -- that the election for the president will be by 31 May 2007. We will all go slowly, from the same starting position, you disabled and politically indisposed, due to a large number of our votes in the future of our assembly, and as such we will enter the presidential campaign. The "half" position, with all the support of Polt, perhaps Bush himself or Condoleezza Rice -- will not help Boris Tadic. Do not speak if you did not want to mention Kosovo and Metohija as a key issue for which we have brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, human rights and respect for freedom, because you will also leave this room tonight without condemning in any word for the past four years the most flagrant violation of the human rights of a man, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, neither you, nor the President of the Republic, nor the Prime Minister, any government minister. You're not worried about that fact. It was done by some scientists and legal experts from all over the world. And you wondered who the Serbian Radical Party could co-operate with, because we all stick our fingers in everyone's eye. You saw, and it was particularly wrong for you, that a scientific, legal elite from France, America and Russia came to Belgrade 15 days ago, which will come in a growing number, because it recognizes in us a force that can in a constitutional way and under the law seriously change things in this country. As people who want good to our people and to the state, in the referendum campaign process, we asked for a blessing from His Holiness the patriarch of the Serbian, Mr. Paul. You know what he told us, what he told Tomislav Nikolic, as a man who enjoys the greatest trust as a politician, individually, as well as the Serbian Radical Party -- in the electoral body. He knows that we are responsible people, mostly Serbian Orthodox, although we have members of other religions and national minorities in responsible functions in our party: "What you do, that's good, you can't do any less, and you can't anymore." So we acted and we did everything to confirm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at the referendum, to declare it not another day, as Sunday and Saturday constitution, but on Mitrovica, to be remembered by future generations. I am proud that I was born in Kragujevac, where the first Serbian, Happy Constitution was adopted in 1835. Thus, generations will be proud that Serbia as a state is surrounded, that it will preserve Kosovo and Metohija, every step of its country, through the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution and tonight's declaration of law, from which other serious laws should follow, which were just mentioned by Radeta's colleague. We will leave nothing to the case and we will not deal with you who are on the verge of political events and those who seek support by digging into space, making Western mentors, what others. We're going to do serious things and we're going to write defense laws and the Army. We've been warning for months that we don't have a foreign minister and a defense minister. I cannot listen, nor can millions of Serbian citizens, to the patriots, as a certain man, appointed by Mr Boris Tadic, who was a disgrace to the Serbian people and the army, mocked the other day by Serbian officers and soldiers. The unfortunate man said -- he cannot set an example and example for Serbian soldier and officer Ratko Mladic. No, it's gonna be some guard from Ohio. It would be good for you to advise him, since he is the president of your party and is busiest to help Serbia, because he has done nothing but personal promotion to stop talking nonsense. In the end, that man wanted at all costs, and you from the DOS Corps with him, who failed the option tonight, that we have elections before the status of our southern province, Kosovo and Metohija. The other day, a famous French football player and attacker Michel Platini said -- never mind, I'll come back to Belgrade, but don't get to know me, and don't make me meet with what it was like, the president of the Republic, the dilettante and the football ignorant. As he didn't know it, and today, Boris Tadic was convinced that Michelle Platini was a famous French goalie, so he knows nothing about the fate of the state and the people being so threatened that they can only be saved by responsible people like we Serbian radicals. Of course, with the support of the citizens of Serbia, we will fight in every place to make this support a great reality, and we are honored that we have done everything we can to gain this constitution in importance tonight, by declaring this law. Besides, we'll do everything we can to make sure the election deadlines are as they are. We're gonna get out of this room and start a winning election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29764	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, and be prepared by Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are at the end of a constitutional work, namely the adoption of a law on the implementation of a new constitution. No less or less, everyone's trying to put all this work into the Constitution, in a way, on their own credit, because we're expecting elections. We forget, especially those who were in power and those who are now in power, that this job could have been completed much earlier and that fame related to the adoption of a new constitution to attribute to themselves in 2001. There was no interference in bringing a new constitution. You had a two-thirds majority and you could have brought a new constitution. You could have tried and after the change of government in 2004, to bring the constitution. It has been seen in the past, in the negotiation process, that the Serbian Radical Party is not the problem, that it will do everything in the interests of the state and the citizens of the country. It wasn't a distraction. Which then led you to power, from 2001 to tonight, not to finish this job, which we all say is so important to the state. He is important to the state. What prevented DOS in 2001, with 176 MPs, from bringing the constitution without any problems? It's a very simple thing, you shouldn't have come into this business. Your mentors, who brought you to power, simply prevented you from bringing the constitution, as it was expected to complete a job related to Serbia, to tear Serbia, to separate Montenegro from the state union and declare Kosovo and Metohija independence. That's the basic reason why you didn't bring the constitution. That's why you didn't bring the constitution before. If you had brought an earlier constitution, you would have to make it clear and loud to define the state of Serbia, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. That's the biggest reason you haven't done anything about the constitution. How come now, just in December, when expected or expected to go to elections, all those who destroyed us suddenly support the adoption of the constitution? Now, for God's sakes, they care about Serbia, Serbia, which will make a step, which will make discontinuity with previous authority, with Slobodan Milosevic! How come Americans support you and help you get to a new constitution? There must be a simple reason why. It's not because they want us well, because they want a stable and secure Serbia, but vice versa. They want a Serbia where they will have puppets again to dictate how and what they should do. That's why they supported you, believing it's somehow possible that after this constitution, you'll come to the elections in December. That's why the US ambassador asked you to enter the elections without the mortgage of Kosovo and Metohija. That's the basic reason. You don't need to be fooled. The main reason is to take down your mortgage to declare Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. You have had the opportunity to hear in the news today that in Kosovo and Metohija some MPs of the Kosovo parliament have already announced that, no matter what happens, the so-called Kosovo and Metohija Assembly will declare Kosovo and Metohija independence. That's kind of what you can kind of see. I feel the way Americans are trying to solve this problem, because it is clear to everyone now that they cannot do it unilaterally in the Security Council and by making some new resolution, because, behold, the Russians have made it clear and loud that a unilateral solution for Kosovo and Metohija will not be and will veto. These are the Russians you underestimated, of which you turned completely towards the West, believing that there lies salvation for Serbia. What have you done in six years? Is there one single document that makes Serbia more stable and secure that Kosovo and Metohija will not be taken away from it? Is there any declaration in Strasbourg or any international organisation, is there any Western state that has made it clear that it will not accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Where are your friends? You see, on November 1st and 2nd, a meeting of the Slovenian Parliamentary Union -- Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Serbia -- was held in Minsk. I must tell you that from Serbia, they were only Members of the Serbian Radical Party. An ad act was issued in the Serbian Parliament. The Serbian Radical Party was not even informed that the call had arrived. We have there proposed a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which was adopted by all MPs from these countries that I have now cited, which clearly states that there is no imposition of a solution for Kosovo and Metohija and that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija can be resolved exclusively in negotiations with Serbia. If you had been able to get at least some document from the West, if anything, at least from a prayer breakfast, since you were racing who would get there sooner and get a call, if you had at least done something in that direction, today would have been much simpler for us. However, even those who have tried every possible way to go to the elections in December 25th or already in December, in 30 days or less, it is quite clear. They need a pre-election campaign, essentially, and they don't need one. They all go around in two or three days, end the election campaign. They will use up to the limit possible the state register so that every penny that comes under their hands can be used for their party activities. The Serbian Radical Party, however, has made sure that the interest of the Serbian state is first and prevented you from going to elections when you planned, believing that in these elections, thanks to such a constitution, you would eventually deceive the citizens of Serbia. That's why we're going to the elections in January of the month. As for the presidential election, we can also leave in January, but when the president resigns. Then let him stand on the line with everyone else, not make a presidential call to the line. It's not right. Therefore, we will do nothing as a party that would in any way reduce the chance of a Serbian state not to make any unfavourable solution when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We will do everything to protect Kosovo and Metohija, we will do everything in the pre-election campaign to get every vote of Serbia's citizens, who are fed up with crime, corruption, failure, unemployment, this privatisation done by this mafia, as they call it, bankrupt. You know why they call it bankruptcy? Because in an illegal way, you put companies in a position to go bankrupt, and then you bought them for small or no money. Do I need to remind you of sugar candies for 3 euros, shipyards, Sartid again, Dunav, or any other firm? There's one thing you won't or won't be able to forget and hide. All this slowly comes to light, even under your former DOS coalition friends, simply, in front of so much crime, can't close their eyes. It is true that now they are calculating, only individuals are calling for responsibility, but one day all those who have violated the law, abused the function, will have to come under the influence of the law. That is why we need this law on the implementation of the constitution tonight, in order to get to the vote, in order to vote in the Serbian citizens' elections. I hope that after these elections, they will get the power of the SRS, which will succeed and bring Serbia to recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29766	The word is by MP Zoran Krasic, after which Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29767	And this proposal for a constitutional law to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the result of some compromise, but you know for yourself that any compromise can be divided into the good and the bad. Had there been political will, political maturity, even when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, we would have also had the text of constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't because, apparently, the concept of how to get this divorcee, how to convince the public that the government of Vojislav Kostunica didn't fall, but that because of the constitution, it was going to new elections. The government achieved something that was the ideal of more Greek democracy. She created a civil government, a government in which citizens, citizen Draskovic, citizen Stankovic, and from a few months ago we have four former ministers and one vice president. So, this government has long lost its legitimacy and, of course, all our governments fall in the third year in the fall. In November 2003, the government whose member was Mr. Vlahovic fell. I am simply amazed that he is talking about the epochal results of his government, forgetting that in December 2003 there were elections and that then the people said what the government was like and what the government was like. And today we have heard confirmation of the government of Vojislav Kostunica-civil government. Here, those who have learned spelling for this month and a half have admitted that they are no longer members of the government today, according to Mladjan Dinkic, he is not going to the ministry tomorrow, so the government has fallen. But Vojislav Kostunica's not answering that. Fall down, fall down, write in your memoirs that she didn't fall, she went down on the ground. Now, this government will be known for the group G17 plus. By what? Tell these professors at the Faculty of Political Sciences that this government is specifically treated as a teaching unit. It's a government that's fallen, and it's full of budgets. There was no record in history of a government that had money falling, so she didn't know what to do with the money anymore. Usually such governments survive, and in the next elections they achieve even better results. This one's loose. Now, look at the government! A few days ago, he was in Zrenjanin, Minister Dinkic, to bring some help to an Italian investor from the National Investment Programme. Well, I guess that Italian guy brought money to spend it here with us. No, these experts, as they say, "expert ahead of politics," give money to a stranger to open jobs. Well, give that money to our businessmen and they'll be opening jobs. We have a president of the Republic who's known for his epochal idea, who's put out the soup kitchens, and he's opened up the national offices. The other day, he was startled by people dying of hunger. Of course, people's offices make the richest people, like that curly tycoon Gilas. The power of manipulation is, believe me, in exhale. Now let's get back to this constitutional law. Just to remind those present and do a stenogram, since I don't know who's following this transmission, we've achieved epochal success this year. We were going to change the Constitution in a constitutional way. Let me remind you, I have some patients here before. Since 2003, the Democratic Party has passed a law on the procedure and way of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then a simple majority was prescribed; there is no referendum, there is nothing. Of course, the Constitutional Court, and as it is, had to determine the unconstitutional nature of that law and undo it. You see how interesting things happen. Furthermore, trauma has been very pronounced since 5 October 2000. I simply note, those who apologize, they burned down this building. They were burning down the building, and they were coming out here to talk like -- the last time they were here. Now let's get back to constitutional law. He's necessary. Why? Because we need to do something to strengthen the Constitution in a period of time when it is quite certain that laws cannot be passed that need to be constitutionally established by the judicial authority, executive power and everything else that is necessary for the state to function. That's why constitutional law is important, and that's why it is declared when the Constitution, to be more precise, makes it an integral part of the Constitution. He's establishing power and he's establishing a state. However, in our public, the problem of constitutional law has been reduced to two dates, when elections will be held for MPs and when elections will be held for the president and, possibly, by the council. It's not just the material of constitutional law. We are likely to go to the elections, as agreed, on January 21st next year, but we would have to pass a law on the selection of MPs. Why? It is impossible to choose under the old law and to regulate the legal status of MPs later. Just to remind you of one provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for which there is a general consensus of all political parties, which is the provision of Article 102(2), which says: "The MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law", which is the law, "unrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal has been elected as a member of parliament". So we need electoral laws. This congregation, by adopting constitutional law, is not a disbanded congregation if elections are held today or tomorrow. She needs to be in a meeting and she needs to pass the necessary laws. Now, under the new constitution, we have, practically, regulations that regulate the position of the National Assembly. We have one provision that speaks of the law on the selection of MPs and the termination of the mandate, the second is the law on the National Assembly, the third is the Rules of Procedure. See for yourself, serious thing. Those who wrote constitutional law, how could they predict that the Constitutional Court could be legal if it had two-thirds of its members? How could you predict that? I'm reading your bill. We offered our bill. In our bill, there is no such solution, or you haven't read it, obviously. Read it! You told us that by next year we won't have a Constitutional Court, we won't have an authority that appreciates constitutionality and legality, we won't have an authority that needs to settle constitutional complaints, and we won't have an authority that needs to settle electoral disputes. These are some, among other things, new jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Next, you forgot about the governor's council. You only listed the governor in article 5. And where's the Council? Not to go further with the failures that exist in this draft constitutional law that you've offered us, of course, under the public influence, faced with the fact that we don't have a government, that we can't allow these G17s to harass like they do, by means of the National Investment Fund, which they share as Santa Claus. It's winter, though. Someone needs to make an account for those funds that were spent during the extra elections at the bar, where Junior and Velya shared their hands and hats. That's what someone thinks they're blaspheming, hiding, because they're supposed to be no more. They need to answer for what they spent, and for what they won't, we'll just see. Don't protect them. There are many other provisions to be discussed seriously, because if the law is not of quality, then it is possible to cover the entire chain of proposals for the assessment of constitutionality and legality and to question the legitimacy of individual bodies. There is no such thing in this constitutional law, because apparently someone has realized that this constitutional law should ensure further co-habitation and those who would like to be presidents, and those who would like to be MPs, and those who would like to be a future government, and those who would like to be local government. Since it is the result of the compromise, it will likely be voted by the majority that is needed. Look, this isn't the last session. We should continue to be in the sitting in order to pass important laws that depend on the legitimacy of the authorities and the possibility of applying this constitution, the laws in accordance with this constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29768	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by Petar Jojic. The remaining time for the SRS is 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I want to take this opportunity and congratulate the citizens of Serbia on the Constitution, and you will not be angry, ladies and gentlemen, if I particularly congratulate the new constitution on the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, with a message that Kosovo and Metohija will not be just constitutional norms, members and preambles, but will be an integral and inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the will of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is also an obligation for everyone, respecting the Constitution, to respect the state of Serbia and thus Kosovo and Metohija. This referendum statement is the message of most Serbian citizens to all the meetings of the Serbian Parliament, the future governments of the Republic of Serbia, the future presidents of the Republic of Serbia. This is a message to both Europe and the world that citizens of the Republic of Serbia want to live in their own country, not to agree to any precedents, conditions, concessions. There are no concessions and cannot be when it comes to the states of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. As of today, ladies and gentlemen, all those who advocate independent Kosovo and Metohija violate the Constitution and must respond. All those who do this for the bloody money of the Shiparian separatists and terrorists, unfortunately, there are many, can be sanctioned and punished. It raises the question of who should be represented by MPs, ministers, government president, state, diplomats, that is what those who chose them are interested in, it is an interest to Serbia's citizens. What's going on in our Serbia? Trade in the mandates of MPs, citizens representing themselves as ministers, ministers who are in some resignations. We have a Prime Minister who approves all of this, we have a president of the state who doesn't want to say the word Kosovo and Metohija, and when he says it, it makes it difficult, like it's a burden. Ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo and Metohija is not a burden, not a burden, not a ballast, not something that has been lost. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and this is the most beautiful and precious part of the Republic of Serbia. Did the referendum go easy and smooth? No, I don't. He was even in danger, and I think it was too much for the citizens to come to the referendum that brought, exactly, the exit and vote of Patriarch Pavle, as well as the invitations of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, because these are the people that Serbian citizens believed, who listened and saw at the head of this country. Why did the people obey them? It is precisely because he saw the people who are calling them do so because of the interest of the Serbian state, because of the interests of the Serbian citizens, because of the future of Serbia and its citizens, not because of party interests, because Serbian radicals know that the national and national ones are first. Ladies and gentlemen, it is ugly and sad that the president of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska is dissuading the public, harassing the MPs and citizens of Serbia with the resignations of Deputy Prime Ministers and ministers from G17 Plus. Today, we have observed these resignations, and this was to be done on October 1st. Today, it is clear to all of us that it is time for this unnatural government to change. The state of Serbia should be represented by legally elected representatives, those who love the state of Serbia, and not by citizens who abuse functions, traveling this beautiful country, Europe and the world, spending unlimitedly on taxpayers' money, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They are portrayed falsely as ministers or ministers in resignation and by their actions not only material, but also any other damage, especially political, to the harm of the state of Serbia and its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is positive is precisely this constitution and the departure of G17 plus from Serbia's political life. Why? Because we do not need the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia whose views are contrary to the interests of the Serbian state. Because we don't need a finance minister who in three years didn't want a single dinar to invest in Kosovo and Metohija. He publicly admitted it to me at the session, when we talked about the National Investment Plan, I quote: "We have not invested a single penny in these three years, but we have provided the National Investment Plan for Kosovo and Metohija". Should such ministers be in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Of course not. All those who do not want to help those who are most vulnerable should not and should never be in the government of the Republic of Serbia again. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens in Kosovo and Metohija cannot watch this transmission, they cannot watch this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because they don't have electricity, because there are incredible restrictions. Five, six hours out of power, then one hour out, and so on every day. I must remind you that the Ship's Separatists and terrorists are not standing still and that our citizen Milorad from the village of the Yearbook in the Kosovo Morality has been masculinely and cowardly attacked. Speaking of Kosovo Morals, I must criticise this government move when a thousand and a hundred citizens left without help, or the amounts they received monthly, amounting to 5,700 dinars. A government like this does not need citizens of Kosovo, and neither does the state of Serbia. That is why I hope that in the elections, which are already certain, Serbian citizens will choose new ones that will lead Serbs to better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29770	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, the apostle Tomislav Nikolic. The overall remaining time for the Serbian Radical Party is 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has contributed greatly to the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbian citizens have witnessed that some political parties have boycotted a referendum to adopt a new constitution. The Serbian Radical Party has contributed to the adoption of the most important legal act in our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which represents a guarantee of rights and freedom. I would not repeat, but I would like to remind you that, following the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is a priority at this point that the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic is passed tonight. The constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution must be applied as soon as possible as a technical means for the adoption of a number of laws which must comply with the highest legal act of our country. One of the most important laws, besides others, to be passed, is the law on the Serbian Army, the Serbian army. The army must be organized and strengthened, and the army must be led by honorary, honest, professional officers, that we have not half-written Minister Stankovic, but by the minister who finished the Higher Military Academy, with an estimate of 9 or 10, who from the rank of sergeant to commander of the army or the Corps commanded military and units. We should not allow, as this happened, to be brought to the post of Chief of General Staff of the Ponosh, who was not even a water commander, and has come to be Chief of Staff. The perpetrator of this high military professional responsibility is a man who doesn't have a day of command, of function. That's what the Serbian Radical Party will allow. Serbian radicals are preparing for this election. Serbian radicals are preparing to pass numerous laws. It's been passed over the past 200 laws and various regulations, but I must say, I was a participant, as a MP in the Assembly, while these laws were passed, these are not good laws. These laws must change because they are not good and this has been confirmed by the Serbian Parliament having to change or supplement these laws after a month or two. What laws are passed by the congregation, so the majority coalition boasts that it has passed a number of laws, if these laws in application cannot live? What I would especially like to draw attention to is corruption and criminal justice. It is high time, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the judiciary to be arranged in a different way than it is now. There is criminal and corruption in the judiciary, and therefore there must be laws on the choice of judges, on the election of prosecutors, on the work of the High Council, etc., so that we do not have in the court people who work as criminals, those who are subject to corruption and crime. A large number of judicial officials are honorable people, but you also have prosecutors who, in any case, are not paying enough attention to certain criminal acts and individual criminals. For the fact that you have developed corruption and corruption in courts, the most I accuse is individuals in the judiciary, and especially the highest officials, as well as the Supreme Court institution, then the prosecutions, ministries and other institutions dealing with these affairs. When it comes to the choice of judges, it is not enough to take care of who is elected, whether there is expertise or not. Who's coming for the District, District or Supreme Court Judge? Who will come to the Supreme Court? Who's coming to the Constitutional Court? At least that's what's being taken care of. It is important that the judiciary is to this extent party-oriented, so members of the party in power are carriers and elders of judicial functions. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party will advocate that, above all, honest and honest people in the judiciary must be valued, given their place, and those who did not deserve to be holders of judicial functions, they must leave the judiciary. It's best confirmed by the bankruptcy case. Do you see what kind of organized criminal group and gang in court and in state authorities, apparently so many officials, ministers. Crime and corruption have taken place in these segments of our society, which is not allowed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am ordering voters and citizens of Serbia, here's a chance for Serbian radicals to really help citizens get to a modern rule of law, that democracy will finally live in our country, not to repeat "Sabbe" from 2003, when 12,500 people have been arrested in a month and a half and 30 have not been convicted or convicted. In the absence of such cases, the judiciary must be reformed. The Serbian Radical Party is prepared to depolitise the institution as an independent government, thus introducing order, to revive an independent judicial branch in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29772	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning we congratulated everyone on the Constitution and the law on the implementation of the Constitution. Those who thought they could seemingly participate in the constitution and that it wouldn't cost and hurt today felt all the pain of participating in the new Serbian constitution. I want them to get over you quickly. I want the citizens of Serbia to implement the Constitution as soon as possible. If this means passing new laws, though the opposition party, the Serbian Radical Party will participate in the adoption of all laws implementing the constitution. In a desire to shorten this discussion, we all have stories over our heads, those who challenged us on the line, I say, as of this morning, the SRS is on the line to everyone who wants to compete with it. Serbia's interest is to hold parliamentary elections in January, and then, within a reasonable period, as soon as possible, to hold presidential, province and local elections. Serbia's interest is more important to us than party interest, and I tell you that at two o'clock a night when Serbian citizens are not watching the broadcast. I'm telling you this as serious people. I count myself as a serious man. The interests of the state have to be respected and implemented. I advise the Prime Minister to forget that the Prime Minister is the moment the elections are called, the ministers forget that they are ministers. Get down to the ground, amongst the ordinary world, to go on a campaign from the same positions, and as the people judge us, so will we. I'm ordering the President of the Republic to take out two numbers bigger. They didn't look good on him. If he wants equal elections, he knows very well how to hold equal elections, and we will beat him even if he uses the presidential office for the elections. I would like to advise the citizens of Serbia that this was the last government to fight against crime, bribery and corruption. I advise the citizens of Serbia that their fate, following the next elections, will no longer be decided by Russia or America, but by the citizens of Serbia themselves. I wish you all success in the election, as many seats as you have left after the victory of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29774	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I'm glad we're all in such a good mood. You see how good it is when we exchange good rules with each other. One of the rules that we had in the previous building is that when you see the paper - lift it up, right? That's a rule Nikola Pasic said. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not yet used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Before I conclude a single search, I ask if the proposing representative, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister for Local and State Self-Government, wants to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29775	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are near the end of tonight's debate. It has shown how difficult it is in our political life to do what is before you tonight, to reach a political compromise that I hope, after this vote, as announced, you will support the government's proposal for a constitutional law to implement the Constitution, with these few amendments previously agreed on by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to be adopted. In the end, it remains for me to thank you, to realize that tonight's act enables us to implement the Constitution, a constitutional life, and we open the door to Serbia's new future. We should build this future together after the election cycles that await us. Once again, on behalf of the Serbian Government, I would like to congratulate you on the Constitution and constitutional law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-11-09-0.u29776	Thank you. Does the president of the Constitutional Affairs Committee want a word? (No) I am concluding a unique search. Since we've done a search, and since this is a session with a single search, we're moving to a decision on the amendments. Before deciding on the amendments, please expert services to check if there is a quorum. My job is not to trust anyone's word, but to check it according to the facts, we've shown it a few times. There are currently 235 MPs present, and we can begin the vote. First Declaration on Amendments, Article 3. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? ( 27) Who is against? (153) Who is abstentioned? (No one) I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? (28) Who's against it? (170) Who is abstentioned? (Nico) I find that the amendment to Article 5 is not accepted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, and before we move to a decision on the draft law in general, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 134 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on a draft constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, decides by a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs. The passed Constitutional Law declares the National Assembly and it comes into force at the same time as the change of the Constitution. I put to the vote the draft constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who's in? (210) Who is against it? (22) Who is abstentioned? (Niko) I find that the National Assembly, two-thirds of the majority, with 210 votes in favour and 22 votes against, passed a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since we passed the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, today, at 02.20 p.m. on November 10th, declares the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted at the Second Special Session in 2006, held from 8th to 10th November 2006, making it possible for the Constitution, which the citizens confirmed at the referendum on 28th and 29th October 2006, to apply at this time of the declaration. That means it's starting to dawn on Serbia. Thank you. I am concluding the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Goodbye.
