ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are shocked by the skill of saying to the people that resignations don't really exist. Interestingly, the children were playing, lying to the people, telling the people that they were resigning, and they were all commenting on my resignations, and there's no resignations. I don't mind, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, which, as you say, is a democratic block united, giving a quorum, which we would call a thief's block, whatever you like, whatever you like, but I just have to show you one thing. How do you interpret that, Mr. Chairman? Here he says, "Dear Mr. President, I hereby inform you that I have resigned as Minister of Finance in the Government. In addition, I'm delivering a copy of the resignation I'm 1. Ten. In 2006, he also handed over to the Prime Minister. I ask you that the Parliament of my resignation finds so and so." He has nothing further to ask, so he resigned. What he's asking doesn't interest anyone. This thanks for the great support and I don't know what kind of Stabilisation and Association Agreement, also resigned from Predrag Markovic, the president of the National Assembly. How come people don't, did I fake this or did you? Or is this I don't know what it is? So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for informing us that the public has been deceived, that you lied to Serbian citizens about your resignations, we have realized that there are no resignations of any member of the government in the Assembly of Serbia, so the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has told us. The citizens of Serbia may consider how they were told the truth, and how much these papers were used only for eyewashing and public dizziness. Citizens do not serve for the game, Serbian citizens are serious people who want change, who want different Serbia, who want to live differently and better, and do not serve to be deceived in this way and to be lied to in this way. That's why we insisted last night that you tell us that kind of declaration, the findings that they resigned, because we knew it would end up in a way that the resignations didn't take. Thank you again for that, and the citizens of Serbia will, obviously, and how quickly they will have the opportunity to assess who was distracting them, who was telling them lies and who never lied to them. I'm proud to belong to the SRS, who didn't lie to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29559	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29560	Thank you. I would just ask the MPs not to build blocks on someone else's account, so each of our political parties will build a block that they will, and if they prefix that block "hoofski" then I feel called. Please don't do this. Now, if I feel called, I have to tell you that's not true. In other words, make sure that you do not insult the messengers of the people, for it offends me. As far as all of this is concerned, which is why you've come forward, and it has to do with part of your speech, I can tell you next, and I wouldn't be much longer. Everything you just said, you could have done coldly last night, there were no obstacles to that. At the insistence of the MPs who asked for this, they printed copies of all these documents you have now shown here, people had them, and I don't remember, although I was all the time in communication with your head of Parliament, the president of the Executive Board, with the president of the DS Group, that any of you asked that last night whoever had the authority to chair this session excused what you just said. I don't see any reason why you wouldn't say it if you weren't looking for him. So here is a very interesting question when it comes to deception. What's the point of the story here? That someone resigned or didn't? I agree, okay, so you can do that thing, it's a pure replacement thesis, we didn't have it on the agenda yesterday. Yesterday's session was called in an emergency and rapid procedure, as a session in which immunity should be taken away from someone accused of organised crime. You did this next, maybe unconsciously, not accusing me, don't get me wrong, but you did what was necessary and that man walks free this morning and that's true. He had to be released because he called for immunity. So, people, 48 hours in this case is a maximum length of police detention, but when the case comes to an investigative judge he has to listen to him right away. If a man calls for immunity, he must be released immediately. Do you understand? You should have understood that yesterday. I'm sorry if you didn't realize that, because I believe you realized that your behavioral resonation last night would have been different. I can't believe someone would have done what they did yesterday, as I believe you understood today, so that's why we're all sitting here together. I can't believe someone in this assembly, after three years of working, is telling this story that can have or have no basis, can be politically profitable and interesting. What do I care? This is about the key thing: can we one day finish the assembly work we called for to remove immunity from someone accused by a special prosecutor for a crime that can be classified and categorized as an act of organized crime? So I'm not accusing anyone, so listen well to my words, I'm just saying that we need to be more correct and careful about this thing. We have to be very correct about these things. This allows criminal proceedings to be conducted. It would be good to finish this job today, and to take this debate, which is rather barren, off the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29561	Mr. Albianic, Rules of Procedure, then Aleksandar Vukic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29562	Because the Rules of Procedure of Rule 104 have been broken and for the sake of speaking falsely by Mr Vukic, it is my duty to declare the following: on the basis of the decision of the G17 Plus General Committee, the G17 Plus Ministers have resigned and agreed with the prime minister that these resignations be activated after the referendum is held. That's all the truth, all Mr. Vukic had to do was read the other side of the memo he was reading. So, in order to point here at the congregation speaker, he wants to skip the truth. But there's another problem. A serious question arises why the attempt to tell the truth was not made last night, why it was an obstruction in the Serbian Parliament last night to remove immunity from the deputy public prosecutor charged with crime. The question is, did you in this way have motive to protect the criminal indictee, are you afraid of new arrests? What's the real motive? That's what Serbian citizens need to know. That they know that you've been obstructing the Assembly, that they know that you didn't want to participate in removing immunity from a criminal charge. That's what Serbian citizens need to know, not hide behind other motives. Tell the truth if you can. That's the essence of the story. Because of your behavior, he's been released. It is now clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is about and therefore should be judged in the future about you and your behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29563	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29564	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this was very interesting. Mr. Chairman, I am the only one in this assembly of the National Assembly being fined in due time, once properly, once incorrectly. I don't think anyone got fines anymore. Now, Mr. Albianic would have to get a fine because he openly told you that you lied. He told you it wasn't true, that they actually resigned, and you told us they didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29565	Mr. Wolfie, that's when you preside.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29566	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. I understood that as something that you were telling the truth. I thank you all. Clearly, then, the G17 plus and the entire government, which deceived us that they had resigned, because these resignations with some kind of parole don't mean anything. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for you to know Mr. Aligrudic, I will try, not professionally, but I would say as it is to the MP, to explain to you why this had to be on the agenda last night, even though you don't see the reason. Namely, Mr Aligrudic, the Government Act states that the minister, among other things, performs all functions, etc., but that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must, at the first next session of the day of resigning, here is the Law on Government and all the members who regulate it, clearly say at the first next session, to establish those resignations. So, Mr. Aligrudic, that had to be last night. The first thing to be done, which you didn't plan to do for a moment, because you said all along that you didn't think of saying that they didn't actually resign, as you said today. On the other hand, Mr. Aligrudic, you say here - someone wanted to protect the criminal. You're the ones who absolutely protect criminals all the time. Two-and-a-half years can't come on the agenda of the report on the work of the Survey Committee. He hasn't been on the agenda in two years, even though he had to come, because you can't say a word to your criminals from a pay phone. You'll talk to me. You're protecting someone. I have no idea who this guy is or who he is. You may be chasing him because he participated, or said you cannot forbid a Serbian Radical Party - so that may be the reason. Is that your reason? What bankruptcy mob? Was Radulovic the vice president of the Serbian Radical Party or some party from the democratic bloc, as you say. Democratic parties, if I'm not mistaken. He's never been to the Serbian Radical Party. Who are we protecting? How are we protecting someone? You do your job, arrest whoever you want, threaten whoever you want, but don't arrest by the order of one businessman who ordered it, and everyone on the orders of that minister, the enemies of that businessman, must be arrested in this country. You all know what this is about. What you've shown us is who's a criminal, in what way. I'll give you fifty more serious crimes. He says he didn't take an emergency legal remedy, so he stopped Mercator from buying something. You're going to attack one mob protecting another mafia. So you will protect the Slovenian-Croatian mafia lobby here in Serbia by attacking another mafia lobby. Well, you're arresting each other. Such a power needs to be arrested by both the mafia and the other, not to protect one mafia from the expense of the long mob. As far as we're concerned, you're doing your job. We'll never be an obstacle to anyone's criminal charge, but don't let that crime have one side. Don't let that crime be just the one that bothers you, and that the crime of those close to the authorities, that this crime is allowed. At the same time, we have talked about what our things are that we want to talk about. We have always been correct in the opposition at the National Assembly of Serbia. We've always given you quorum on the Administrative Board, and in the Serbian Parliament, whenever it was necessary for something, where you bring us serious paper, someone is going after it. I must tell you that for me, here for citizens to hear, you will gain the benefit of the organized criminal group Goran Kljajevic and Nemanje Jolovic, preventing the purchase process of the "C Market" company's "Merkator" company from Ljubljana from showing up as a buyer of shares in the company "C Market". It's probably serious, you just have to tell me what's in there and who took so much money, which mob took it. Who are they that took that money?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29567	Mr. Wolfie, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29568	I'm done now. The court needs to determine, and you've already said they're criminals. Dear citizens of Serbia, we have established one important thing, representatives of the G17 plus the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have failed to resign. They lied. It's not the first time, it's who knows which time. The representatives of Serbia's government will still lie. When this point comes to you on the agenda I'll have something to say to you on that point, but don't assume one mafia to another mafia, but all the mobsters and all the mobs in prison, then you'll have the support of the Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29569	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29570	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't want to see on the sidelines how in some way this congregation is trying to collapse. Last night, like many, I interrupted everything and came to the session, believing it was important to make a decision on the withdrawal of immunity, so that the judicial authorities could do their job. I came back today. Last night, I faced papers and a campaign run in Serbia, unfortunately, about the resignations, not about the need for the constitution to be confirmed at the referendum, that the majority of citizens would go to the referendum. It even seems to me that, in a way, this should put it in a different plan. I don't know who's lying, but someone's lying. I don't want any part of it, I don't want to be there. We got the papers last night. Today we heard from the chairman that resignations do not exist. I went out to ask if resignations were withdrawn in the meantime, was the letter submitted by ministers that resignations had been withdrawn? The rest, I believe, is playing with the Assembly and I believe that the Assembly is obliged to maintain its own integrity, because no one, nor can the minister, has the right to resign, but has no right to determine the Assembly when it will be put on the agenda. Imagine the minister who resigns and says, "Please state at the end of the term." I'm sorry, it's playing with the Assembly. I don't mind if this issue goes to another stage, too, if there are business opportunities for us to immediately come to terms with the motion for a decision to withdraw immunity, but the Assembly needs to clarify this issue. Otherwise, he puts himself in a position to play. Either you're a minister or you're not a minister, and I'm not a little bit, I'm a little bit, I am a minister, and from there I'm not. For these reasons I ask, did the letter arrive in the meantime for resignations to be withdrawn? Otherwise, this is a resignation, and the minister, no one, not even the head of the Assembly has the right to determine when to put it on the agenda, because the Rules of Procedure is precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29571	The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29572	We, ladies and gentlemen, cannot put ourselves in the role of a special prosecutor and an investigative judge, so that we can assess the validity of their work, the foundation of the indictment or the foundation of the judge's decision. We cannot rank here on the value of the indictment proposal and discuss whether someone is a smaller or larger mobster, nor can we, thanks to what order and how the proposals for the removal of immunity in the Serbian Parliament come in, determine whose mobster it is. As far as we're concerned, mobsters are all the same, and everyone should go to jail. In any order, no matter what conflict the proposals come here, especially the special prosecutor, as far as the Democratic Party of Serbia is concerned, they will be given a lift of immunity here, because it is the interest of the state. That's what's important. The other thing, about the procedure itself and talking about what was going to be more important than this, I don't mind if we talk about it until the next day if you want, but it worked out, and we could talk about it last night, and all of this could happen now. And we can't be asked why it wasn't last night, because there was no will to get into the O.R. by the opposition MPs, to hear anything at all, and as evidence of that, you've been divided on the benches of materials, last night, in the evening, on all the benches were divided and you were all familiar with it. I'm telling you, I talked to the heads of Parliament about this last night. We told them what the facts were. The interpretation of facts is on the chairman. We may be satisfied or dissatisfied with interpreting the facts, but it's something that we could talk about like this, as we're talking about today, to talk about last night. That didn't happen. You could have raised your hand last night to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Last night, all of this could have come out from the beginning to the end. Why did it take us to wait today? Why did it take today to enter the O.R. and someone who is accused, as some here defend it, for something that does not matter obviously, walks free across the streets of Belgrade. Don't twist my words. I'm not accusing, I'm just saying that politically it wasn't good for those who did it and that's why it could produce this reaction. I'm not saying it, I'm just saying it wasn't politically wise, but don't let God prove it was different.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29573	The word is made by MP Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29574	I understand that passions are getting in the way, because everyone's trying to show the public their version of the picture of the event. I just don't think there's any need for us not to say what's right, and what happened last night, and what's going on today. The MPs of the Democratic Party were here last night and, as we told the public, we told those with whom we spoke, the heads of the G17 Plus Parliament Clubs and the DSS, we are ready to enter and vote to remove the procedural and legal assumption that this criminal procedure could be conducted. We've done it so far, we'll do it in the future, and there's no dilemma, nor is there now. However, this congregation, at least until a few minutes ago, had another obligation. The public has been informed that G17 Plus Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dulic, Finance Minister Mr. Dinkic, Agriculture Minister, Mr. Zivkov and Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, have resigned. For ten days, the public of Serbia faces the fact that the prime minister and three ministers are resigning. That's confirmed by the government. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are clear and says that the Assembly, regardless of what is on the agenda, whether or not it discusses the budget, about some law, about the need to remove someone's immunity, is obliged to establish the resignations of ministers that have been submitted. That's what the Government Act says, but so does the Rules of Procedure. Last night, I repeatedly asked that it be announced here that these resignations were not filed and MPs of the Democratic Party would enter this assembly. So, I told you to choose, Mr. Albianic can come out, someone who holds the presidency can come out, Mr. Mihailovic, but that didn't happen. Then we got half-night papers, these four resignations, and as you can see, that's what the public saw during the day, on October 2nd a paper entered the Assembly saying, "I hereby inform you that I have resigned as Minister of Finance in the Government. In addition, I am delivering a copy of the resignation I handed over to the Prime Minister on 1 October 2006." There is a second view, to read to you for correctness: since you have called a referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I ask that the National Assembly will resign immediately after the referendum. It would be in the works, but no one has the right, nor does one who resigns, nor does the president of the National Assembly, nor does the vice president of the Assembly that changes him in his absence, change the law and amend the Rules of Procedure. No one can resign without choosing the moment when that resignation will be established in the Assembly, because there is no such provision in the Law, and that is the truth. When we asked to compare these papers with the original documents, to give the ultimate reason why we did not enter the Assembly hall yesterday, we were told that these resignations were with Predrag Markovic Assembly President without anyone being able to find the President of the Predrag Markovic Assembly. I think Mr. Predrag Markovic is also fighting organized crime, and we can't find him, he's gone like an egg from the grave. So, today, when we received a finding from the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of Vojislav Mihailovic, that there are no resignations in the assembly procedure, simply peopleally speaking, did not resign, we entered this hall and, of course, we will participate, effectively and constructively, in completing this item of the agenda, to be removed from the person suspected of serious crimes. The government of the Republic of Serbia has fallen! In this assembly, the ruling majority cannot raise 126 MPs. But the ruling majority, which is not, will always have the support of the Democratic Party for things that guard state interests, which is the fight against crime, but the ruling majority must speak the truth, must not deceive the public, must not deceive MPs of the National Assembly, and we must have a clear idea of whether in the Serbian government these four people are still ministers or not. So it turns out they were ministers, but they lied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29575	Just a moment, you're looking for a replica, but we still have Mrs Stojanović-Plasic's Business Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29576	I'm sorry, but I really need to explain everything we're talking about. So the G 17 plus ministers resigned. Ministers of G17 plus resigned, I'll do it one more time. We made it clear why we resigned; because G17 plus entered the government to achieve its goals, to bring Serbia into Europe. G17 plus, in all his ministries, he did everything he could to achieve that goal. At the moment it became impossible, we gave a deadline and we said, "We're going out on October 1st if the negotiations don't continue." Our ministers' resignations have been valid since 1 October, and they have been handed over to the prime minister and the assembly. Please, as we have all witnessed what has been happening in our country for the last month, and as we understand, there has been general agreement of all parties in this House, that there is a goal above all objectives, which is the adoption of the constitution, before the public ministers of G17 plus confirmed that they are ready to carry out their functions as ministers in resignation until the referendum process is completed. I thought, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution is above all other party and political goals in Serbia at the moment. Today you hurt that it is not true, today you hurt that it is not true, and that above all interests are party interests. Because what you want to do today. You want to blame G17 plus for lying to Serbian citizens, that's not true, ladies and gentlemen. So that's not true! If we all agree that Serbia's first goal at this time is the Constitution, we are ready to move on. If we don't agree on that, if your party goals are above that, we're not ready to move on. Please state your resignations in parliament, if you consider it above the Constitution. Either we're all going to work together on the referendum process and you're not going to call G17 plus in such an unfair way, or you're going to find resignations if that's more important to you. If you want and if it is more important for you at this point who will be the minister, to propose new ministers, and if you want to destabilise Serbia at this point, please, establish resignations, resignations are on the table.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29577	Mr. Krasic, you have the advantage, but as far as I understand you're giving in to Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29578	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't understand why you're so upset. Namely, the chairman only found out that you are still ministers, why you worry further. You'll move on to what you've done so far. What the people have found is that they lie short feet. It's an old saying, and now people have seen what it looks like, and there's no big philosophy. On the other hand, you tell us, come on, the Constitution is our most important task, let's all deal with the Constitution, not party stuff. I did not see a picture of Tomislav Nikolic on the highway and on the streets of Belgrade, but I saw a picture of Mladjan Dinkic, where the Constitution is not mentioned. First he took his picture, then he'll think about the Constitution. So you say to someone, shame on you, on the care of the constitution and the state. I have to admit that I'm not really treating myself, they've been doing a lot of work at the photo store, but it doesn't matter now. I didn't see you talking about the constitution. I'm asking the representatives of the government in Serbia, you say that could've happened last night. The session was scheduled for 18.00 hours, at 21.00 hours, the president agreed on how and how to print out the papers and divide them to the MPs, only at half a dozen are placed on the benches. You transfer us anything, you're most people, you tell the people and you tell everyone that you have the majority, you provide everything, we're not going to provide you with anything. We're opposition, we're not going to provide you with anything, prosecute crime, release others, or prosecute and do whatever you want, it's our place to tell you what we think. You want me to ask you, what about the airport affair? They were arrested, now you'll hear how they were arrested. They were arrested, after 24 hours - all 12 arrested were released. Why? Because they are close to both the former and some in today's political establishment, a 18m-euro theft, as police officers established in the criminal report, is not a human dinar but a euro. No one was in custody, a process to end up on "holy ever." What about Janjusevic and Kolesar? I don't think there's one thing he wasn't involved in. Open up any cement store, go to him for money. That's what you see through the account, that's what wasn't in the cash, that's not what you see. The state has no interest in dealing with crime. What is it, ladies and gentlemen, with the suitcases? Do you know that Dejan Simic, an adviser at the National Bank of Serbia, in August by an official car, one of the most expensive official cars, went to St. Stefan, gambled all night and returned the next morning. I ask you, is that possible, ladies and gentlemen? I don't mind. I just wish that along with what he stopped Mercator from buying, you and him could arrest the ones they took from Mercator. That's what I said metaphorically, because I have no idea who he's been taking from whom. One more thing to tell you, none of these people, from Goran Kljajevic, I don't know who, I've never seen or heard of in my life, which can be easily checked. You think about who you've told and what you've said in any way, but don't let there be a good mob, a mob that suits us, especially one that has a lot of money when the elections are coming, so that they give something, and that there's a bad mob that could serve us for a pre-election purpose, let's say -- here's how we deal with them. (President: Time.) So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've got feelings mixed up. On the one hand, it's a good thing that we forced the government to keep it from telling the truth, that the representatives of the government lied to us, that they lied about their resignations. On the other hand, I'm sad that as ministers, they're going to be harassing Serbian citizens for one more time, but after the election, they'll never be able to do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29579	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krasic, I apologize to you, you called earlier, but there are more at once, so I may have disturbed your order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29580	Mr. Mihaylovic, I'm calling for article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I warn that not only Article 104 has been injured, but a dozen members of this Rules of Procedure have been injured. What's this about? I must remind the MPs that when the Government Act was passed, there was a sharp debate on the question of resignation. We have pointed to a solution that may be somewhat different from what is written in the Rules of Procedure. Since the Government Act is directly applicable when this situation is in place, I would just like to remind you of what is stated in Article 23. The Law on Government - The National Assembly at the first next session, without discussion, takes note; so it does not realize. Please inform Vojislav Kostunica that these four are neither vice presidents anymore, nor ministers anymore. So, we've come to know. How did we get that? Well, he showed up last night. We got the papers, and now he's saying, "Respected Mr. President, we're notifying you that I'm resigning." We have four resignations. The resignation is not possible with a break-up or some temporary condition. It either exists or doesn't exist. There are resignations. We received them last night, today we only formally and legally, after you opened, had a number of MPs. So, let them know they're not ministers anymore. Now he says -- the minister who resigned is obliged to do current jobs until his mandate has ceased. They've lost their mandate. Notify Kostunica that he needs to determine the reserve ministers who will lead these portfolios. It's in your law, ladies and gentlemen legalists. I adhere to your regulation. Please, the opposition can never be guilty of whether there's a quorum or not. The opposition can never be blamed if it rains outside or it's sunny. He who is the government, he provides 126 MPs present, determines the agenda and ends as he intends, probably in accordance with the law. Please inform Mr. Kostunica of what has already been done in fact. Mr. Mihailovich, I think you've had to warn some MPs, first of all, of that MP who cheated on you that there are no formally legal resignations. As you can see, they exist. Now I'm not getting into this formal thing that last night was a story, whether it was a fake or not. If it's a fake, let's remove the immunity of whoever forged it. We still have the agenda point - removing immunity. While we're at it, let's take all the criminals off in one wave. Not like this now. Now we have a proven forgeries and we all act like nothing happened. So someone double-crossed you that there's no formal law. Then a lady came out and beautifully and vividly explained that resignations were given. So, we've come to the knowledge. Inform Kostunica that he has a 15-day deadline to propose new ministers, in accordance with the law. What law? The one you suggested, the law you adopted. Respect your regulations. We can't do it without the rule of law in Europe. Although, I must remind you, we have problems with Europe, we are late for quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29581	Mr. Krasic, I think I made myself clear when I said that in a formal legal sense they do not exist in the congregation procedure. Please, don't make it clear that we're making it unclear again. The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29582	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, we were here last night, awaiting the beginning of the session, in a dilemma why the President of the National Assembly authorised one of the vice presidents and to schedule a session and to hold this session, and today I am absolutely clear that Predrag Markovic escaped from this session because he was ashamed to attend this session. The reason for such thinking and such a conclusion is precisely this act that we have received, that is, these resignations that we have received, which are not misleading, which indicate that the President of the Assembly has violated Rules of Procedure and Rule 28, where it clearly states that he must take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which means both at the sitting and outside the sitting. It is obvious that he kept these resignations in the drawer, that he did not give them up for seduction and to deceive the National Assembly and the public, by not bringing them to parliament today, he or anyone else he has authorized, and by making these resignations known, and there would be no stories about it. Therefore, I think that the conditions have been fully met for the vote of mistrust to the President of the Assembly. I am prepared to discuss this possibility with my colleagues from the SRS Parliament Club and to submit such a request, although we suspect that it will ever come to the agenda, but let it remain for history. It is obvious that the president of the National Assembly, as a member of the G17 plus, was easier to get what he had received, and what he must get the seal, and must get his number, and he had to be here today at the session, to establish the termination of his mandate to those ministers who resigned, did something that was against the law. Now I ask you -- is it possible for us in parliament to be able to commit any crime, and I also consider this a crime, as well as stealing those votes from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, from where they were also not given any epilogue in court, because it is impossible that voices were being stolen at the time of the former DOS, here in parliament, and that Pajtic knew nothing, since Aligrudic certainly knows everything about what is going on here in parliament and is in cahoot with Parliament president. It's not Paititch's fault for nothing. The President of the Republic said in his own time as party president -- yes, we will deal with it within our party, but "very important". And what some governors of the National Bank have been elected there with those votes and what some labour laws have been passed, with non-existent votes, which we all suffer the consequences of such laws, or we have suffered the consequences -- no one cares. If we're stealing and committing other crimes here, then what can we expect to happen in society? We are not setting any example for the citizens of Serbia with our own behaviour. If you expected the Serbian Radical Party to provide you with a quorum, then you were very wrong. We're not responsible for anything. We were in parliament yesterday, although the phone messages gave us the session's call, so not the way it should really be, because of the urgency we came to parliament - then you gentlemen weren't there. When you're here 126, we'll come in and you know very well that we've been acting like this forever, like an opposition political party. I'm worried about the other thing. Is it possible that Vojislav Kostunica can do what he wants, make a coup, hold in the government some ministers who are not ministers, now hold back those who resigned without being ministers, to act as if nothing had happened? Well, I guess first we have to make sure that Parliament is legitimate; that every MP is legitimate; that every member of the government is legitimate to say that we have a government. What do we have now? Guys, we don't have anything. We don't have a government. These ministers can't do anything, on the one hand. On the other hand, the president of the Assembly covered them with his criminal acts. And let's see who forged what here in this congregation. If you want to talk about the essence of crime, we need first of all to deal with what anyone here in Parliament is doing in accordance with the law or breaking the law. This one should bear not only political coincidences, but this crime committed by Mr. Markovic exists in Criminal Law and has its mark, so let the lawyers say what it is, let them file criminal charges, and let's see how the prosecution will behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29583	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. I apologize to a lot of people who responded for a word, but they're all behind Mr. Zoran Angelkovic, so they'll get a word after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29584	Ladies and gentlemen, no one here has been discussing whether or not someone wants to resign. That's what we MPs discussed, here, and on the Administrative Board yesterday, I asked Mr. Peter Cvetkovic to let us know whether there were resignations in the assembly procedure or not. It would be all right if Mrs, our colleague, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, had not now stated again - there are resignations. There are essentially no resignations, and I don't think that's possible. Why is that and why it's just a question of a simple marketing move this thing -- the wrong marketing move, the wrong agency, which she misinformed. In order for a document to be discussed here in the Assembly, to enter the procedure, to get it on the table as MPs, it must satisfy the procedure, as well as this document that we have received today for the agenda that has satisfied the procedure, and it is called the "indicative seal of the Serbian Parliament". In this opening seal of the Serbian Parliament, it writes a nice date, though, and here it is written date and nothing more, and then it writes organisational number 28, and then the number under which it is seduced that it can be seen in the employer to see that it is being seduced, which is 713-300-30-28/06, from October 8th. It's a valid document for us MPs. While all we've been given is paper that I could see on the street and he doesn't exist for me as an MP - so the resignations haven't been filed. Why is that? Take a look at the Serbian Parliament's opening seal. It says here it's October 2nd, and underneath the organisational unit there is no, it's empty, and it didn't come into congregation procedure. The number is also empty and can be said or someone kept this in a drawer or kept it in a drawer. Objectively, it didn't come into congregation procedure. It's just that a marketing person wants to announce that he resigned without delivering it to the Assembly, not entering the procedure and not turning himself in to be seduced in the congregation service, and that's the problem of those who did. You have objectively failed to resign in the congregation procedure, nor have you been asked to endure or to endure them. When you stand for them, there will be, and now for me, this paper does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29585	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic - Stojacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29586	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult now to explain or think about how to begin this exhibition, because almost all of us have been led astray by the chairman - that resignations have not been formally filed. Respecting the parliamentary legitimacy of Mrs Stojanovic-Plasic, she said the resignations were filed. Now I'd like to analyse the formal-legal deficiencies in the resignations that you've had a chance to see. The resignation of any minister, addressed to Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister of the government, has been stamped by the government of the Republic of Serbia since 29 September 2006, while on paper typed in the cabinet of ministers, each individual ministry, stands on the date of October 1st, 2006. So far, we've known that there are blank resignations, and now we know that there are also blank papers with irrevocable stamps, on which later it types whatever it wants, with dates that are later considered justified. How is it possible to have a seductive seal in the office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia three days before someone typed the paper to which he resigned? Neither the finance minister's office nor the cabinet of other ministers has any accounting number under which resignations have been taken. The same happens with the resignations handed over to the republican parliament, the Serbian Parliament, where the December 2nd seal stands, and there is also no accounting number. Also, the accounting number does not exist in the ministries from which these papers were sent. So, no formal-legal paper has been seduced. Who in this country has the discretion to send any mail from official state authorities without being seduced as mail, and who in this country has the right to receive any mail in any body without being seduced as mail received? There is nothing formal-legal here -- neither the Serbian Parliament nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and formally-lawfully, Mr. Chairman, you have led us all astray, but you have revealed to us the truth that we have a serious problem with the functioning of all the state authorities in Serbia at this time. I am sorry, because I know that among the G17 MPs plus the honorable people, friends, who have entered the political story and the struggle for Serbia's democratisation. I'm also sorry, like all of us here, that we are now telling a story that shouldn't have been a topic in this House. We all saw that the G17-plus ministers and vice presidents resigned. We tried to believe that what they said was true. Today, each of us has serious doubts about anyone who spoke one or the other. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the basis of many ambiguities, and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Parliament and the right of each MP to submit a specific proposal, calling on Article 226, I propose that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Health, by the chairman, be called before parliament, before the MPs of this assembly and make a statement on what is true. We were trying to make an insight and compare yesterday, as serious people and good lawyers, photocopies that were delivered to us with the originals. [[Applause]] The explanation we got is that Mr. President isn't here, and he's probably right on his way. We said, okay, there's no president, but we assume that the originals exist in the congregation service. Then they tell us, there are, but they're in the safe. Well, okay, unlock the safe. Yes, but the key to the safe is President Predrag Markovic's. Well, go and get it. Well, we don't know where President Predrag Markovic is. By all means, please, the chairman, put to the vote - a statement by the MPs on the proposal of the Democratic Party - that, according to Article 226, ministers and vice presidents are invited to the Serbian Parliament, set a break until they arrive, and that we hear their personal explanation of the things we are discussing today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29587	Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, I think it is quite clear that the formulation was given, even in agreement with your head of the parliamentary group, so, please, Mr. Angelkovic, in part, seemed to have explained to me, if it were not clear to you before that, that there was an official post office, that there was a way to send letters to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as they were taken into the procedure. This paper that reached us certainly did not satisfy those assumptions that he had to satisfy, it for us formally does not exist and in the congregation procedure formally-lawfully did not exist. So really don't talk about something that doesn't exist formally, because it would lead us all to randomity, and I don't want to go that way. (Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, from the post: You must put my proposal to the vote, according to the Rules of Procedure. I will consult the assistant secretary, and if it is my duty, I will put it to the vote. In the meantime, here's Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29588	Snježana Lakicevic-Stojacic has to correct her request, she has to get out of this booth to ask for a statement to be made in order to be in the Rules of Procedure. If she asked from the pay phone, then you have to put it on, but if she asked from the pay phone, I listened carefully, I wish she did, I'm not sure, anyway, we'll vote for it. But there's one thing that matters to us, Mr. Mikhailovich. If you said this, then, that things are like this, that there are no conditions, because it is not in accordance with the law and with the positive legal regulations to hand over an act of resignation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which then prevents us or anyone else that prevents us from telling these people that they are liars. Does that mean they've been fooling the public the whole time? Does this mean that you knew at all times that there were no resignations? That means that you knew all along, the government continues to rule, and, folks, we're lying to you. The people aren't crazy that you gave us those resignations last night, if you say resignations don't exist. What you gave us on the resignation paper, and you say that resignations don't exist, my people. So are we all crazy here? You say there are no resignations, and you say before, we delivered them to you last night at 9:30. If they don't exist, it's okay, we know, we have liars, and if it's questionable whether they're liars or if it's about lying law and the assembly majority, let's see who's lying, put this proposal to the vote, so let the ministers come and plead. But let the people know, at last, whether he lies to anyone who allegedly resigned or lies to him who printed those resignations for him, and He has given them to the messengers. However, the government lies, however you turn, and that's what the people could conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29589	Here, I'll give you my word, just that right now, before... (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: You cannot give the word before me.) One moment, Mr. Aligruditch, you're right, but I think we'll give the lady the championship. Listen, before you get your word, the 226th member you called on - the MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, etc., and he does not say anything about the chairman being obliged to put it to the vote, so if you are referring to that member, I really don't have that duty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29590	The MP of the republic's parliament has the right to ask to vote on any proposal declared by the republic's parliament speaker. It's really unserious that now that you're convinced you don't have a majority, to put something like this to the vote, you're interpreting it in a different way. I now formulate, just in case, my proposal: I ask that MPs of the National Assembly, acting in agreement with Article 226, make it clear that before the National Assembly and before these MPs the ministers are invited and that the situation before which we have all met. Did they or did they not resign to their posts in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Please put this my proposal to the plea.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29591	Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, I will not really put this on, because my duty is not, but the Assembly will declare whether the chairman has hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aligruditch, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29592	Now, this is a replica of Mr Petrovic's exposure, but since so much time has passed since the moment I asked for a replica so far, the point is raised. You see, the whole debate here is about some issues that we've replaced as important to something that we consider irrelevant. I guess this is why the Assembly is called together, and this is important, and then we discuss it, using normal, that our Rules of Procedure allows, using the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, so that's how we apply for the word, that's what we get, and then we spin the same story all the time. Please, I'm going to say what was my replica, she's nothing special, just to get things back into normal water. And let me ask you one thing, if we can bring this to an end and make a statement about what's on the agenda. Once we've made our point, before the session is closed, we can continue this until seven o'clock, if you will. So it's no problem, but let's do what we're here for. A brief replica from only one part of the exposure, and that's the question of thinking about things, not the fact. So, it is the ruling coalition that is obliged to round up the majority to vote what it wants, but so far, we have not had the practice in these three years that for these things the ruling coalition collects its 126 MPs to vote for these things, such as removing immunity, or for something else that is of general importance. When a session was called yesterday, it was called to predict that all MPs would come and attend that session and that we would vote this out. The same is true for today, and I think that in this part alone I replicate, so any other situation, any other called session of the National Assembly, where there is no quorum to decide on, which was called by the president of the National Assembly, MPs or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would certainly stand. It means we'd be guilty of not having a working quorum at 10.00 hours, but at 11.00 hours, why didn't we gather 126 MPs at 1400 hours, but at 2100 hours? I think when it comes to this kind of thing, when this session is called into good faith, that we'll all be together for something, that this kind of remark might be too high. That's what I was going to say and nothing else under God's grace, nor do I think of doing any more replicating or participating in this region with anyone here. I'm really asking you to go and solve the immunity problem. And if anyone has the will, it's my suggestion to all of you, to discuss this matter further to the point, we can certainly do it before the session is closed, according to the same manner we've been working on so far, by reporting for the word by the Rules of Procedure. So that's the way we can end this and work on it and I'm asking you to make a statement on what was on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29593	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29594	At the beginning of this session, the Democratic Party received an answer to the question it asked. I must say, unfortunately, that the G17s plus MPs are coming out of the O.R. Apparently, they don't want to take part in this assembly session, but it's their decision. So at the beginning of the session we received an answer and that response was formulated by the Vice-President of the Assembly by saying that, in the formal-legal sense, MPs' resignations, i.e. Minister G17 plus do not exist. That's enough. So they didn't resign. During the debate, Mrs Plassic said those resignations were filed. That's the first thing. We saw that, meanwhile, from the moment this session of the assembly was opened to, it is now around 13.40, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic told one of the agencies that he resigned to President Predrag Markovic. The proposal Mrs. Lakicevic made here is quite reasonable and very fair. If there is a great doubt about whether resignations have been made or not, there is no more natural and nothing better can hold the dignity of Mladjan Dinkic and his ministers than to come before this assembly and plead before the MPs whether they have resigned or not. Nothing more honest, more reasonable, and nothing more fair and in the spirit of parliamentaryism I can't imagine being able to suggest. I simply cannot believe that Mladjan Dinkic will allow himself not to come to this speaker and inform the parliament and citizens of Serbia about whether he resigned or did not resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29595	Mr. Wolfie, we're watching the order. We've got two in front of you. Meho Omerovic, a MP of the people according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Vukicevic, and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, MPs G17 plus kept their word, they hired the Assembly. They, as already known, activated their resignations. That's good news. What has been confusing the entire public for the past hour and a half, is the co-operation we hear from the ruling coalition's representatives about formal legal reasons that there is a resignation, and on the other hand we heard representatives of G17 plus who come out and claim that the resignation has been filed. What would our people say, "who here makes me crazy"? Unfortunately, this irresponsible behavior has come to such an extent that at the beginning of today's debate, and unfortunately we have all forgotten it, we have heard heavy accusations against all of us present MPs. Individuals from the party that left parliament accused MPs in the Serbian Parliament of protecting criminals and destabilising the state. I don't believe there's any MP in this room who protects criminals and intends to destabilise the state, which we are accused of in previous exhibitions. At all times of the day and night, I am prepared to come to the Assembly Hall, to do what the citizens have entrusted me with, and that is to deal with organized crime, as you like to talk, to vote to end immunity and determine detention for criminals, because the law must be respected. But if we respect the law when it comes to prosecutors, when it comes to other state officials, then I expect us to respect the law and when it comes to MPs, and when it comes to ministers, in this case from G17 plus. If they were from any other party, I'd be saying the same thing, and I'd be acting the same way. Therefore, one who violates the law must answer. We are unfortunately during yesterday, and today we are witnessing that the most responsible man for this circus, I must say it openly and publicly because of the citizens of Serbia, that this circus from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made a man who deals with everything just not with this assembly. He's a member of the Crown Council, he's an honorary president, he travels, he has his private safes, his drawers, he locks down resignations, he activates resignations when it suits him, he hides resignations when it suits him. I also agree with two distinguished ladies who have made two proposals, to show no confidence to President Predrag Markovic's Assembly, and also to invite ministers in the G17 Plus government to tell these MPs and Serbian citizens whether they have resigned or not, to stop making Serbian citizens for once and for all. That's not why they chose us, believe me. Experts in manipulation were first non-existent resignations, remember, activated and declared valid. Now the resignations that have been seduced, and which are here all of my esteemed colleagues who spoke for this pay phone and showed off, they want to think they don't exist. He may accuse Mladjan Dinkic of falsifying this resignation. Anything's possible. We can expect anything from them. What I am going to say is, don't be surprised that after the referendum in Serbia, after the day in which we solemnly declare the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will receive a new letter, which this time will be properly seduced at the Office of the Republic of Serbia, in which it will stand that, Mr. President, we are informing you that the referendum has succeeded and that you have not yet agreed on the date of the election, please establish our resignations when you agree and when you call the elections. It's all like these experts to me. So, I support the proposal of a distinguished colleague of Snow White to take a break, to invite the Deputy Prime Minister and the G17 Minister plus to explain to us after this pay phone, whether someone forged their signatures, whether they resigned or failed to resign, because believe me, someone finally has to answer for this. Dara's gone too far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29597	National MP Vladan Vukicevic. For your explanation, Mr. Omerovic, that resignations in the Assembly were not seduced, that this paper did not go through the mail, that we do not have an accounting number, that we do not have information from the secretary that the regular procedure in the assembly has passed. You'll get a replica. Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29598	Ladies and gentlemen, every day on the media, we hear high-ranking officials from individual parties who talk and are full of their mouths that the issue of all issues in this country is the adoption of a constitution. It is true, we have all agreed here together in this assembly, with 242 votes, that the issue of all issues, the future of Serbia and the historical distance between the past and the present and the future, is the adoption of a constitution. Of course, this session today shows in some way that the political party interest is still above and the most important issues concerning each individual in this country, which is the constitution. I am glad to be a New Serbia MP, a party that has never traded in the past two and a half years, nor conditioned any political party. Honorably and honestly, in the interests of Serbian citizens, she has done her job, both as MPs and, of course, our ministry, the Ministry of Capital Investments. Believe me, as a man today, I am surprised at how small these party interests are and how much we want to forget what the real interest of Serbian citizens is. The real interest of Serbian citizens is the 28th and 29th referendum, to bring a constitution that needs to make a distance between the past and provide citizens with a better future. But, of course, mere formalism is being expressed at this point. Party interests also, forgetting that in this Serbian citizens, watching us today as we behave, 28th and 29th should come out and support what we described in this assembly 15 days ago as a priority for Serbia and mass vote on the constitution, which this assembly should again and must verify. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should return to our priorities and in some way end this session of the Assembly, knowing how citizens know it, and swearing all the parties here individually, and MPs, that the second priority, after the constitution, is, of course, apostrophicated as a private priority -- the fight against crime. We have to agree, regardless of the formula that can be interpreted whether it is legal or not, whether someone can resign and order a moment of resignation, that fighting crime is something that needs to be a priority for all MPs and, of course, all those people whose honor and honesty is at heart. Therefore, I believe that in some way we will all bear one blame that the person charged at this point will be at large, just because we haven't found a consensus here, we voted, of course, to remove the immunity of the gentleman mentioned. For these discussions, as they were at this session, there will be time in the election campaign. Once again, I stress that I am glad to be an MP for a party that has never blackmailed anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29599	Just a moment, Mr. Nikola Milosevic, the MP, first came forward. Please, I'm following the order. Mr. Vukic, you will get the word, and you have the replica, Mr. Omerovic, behind them. Do you have a suggestion? Just to ask Mr. Milosevic, do you allow Mr. Vukic to present one proposal before your presentation? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because someone wants to say on the one hand that this question doesn't matter, and the other question is most important on the globe of the Earth. Guys, what we're talking about right now is organized crime of the highest degree, in which are the highest representatives of the authorities. I ask you, how can television and each other write a minister if he isn't a minister and spend the money of a minister and not a minister? I guess that's the crime I've learned and how much I think it is. We've entered some kind of political asylum here. Those who entered parliament on the common list attack each other most fiercely, all sorts of miracles happen. I don't think it's clear to the citizens. In order for people to understand what this is all about, because it's pointless to expect you to continue, because those with whom you should vote have left the assembly hall, I guess, offended that they've been broken into to lie. I don't know what the extra reason is. I guess the ones who talk to us the most and salty minds about state interests were the first to hang their paintings - her that I'm beautiful, so they painted her hair even more beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you right now, in the referendum campaign, we're going to be dealing with a referendum because it's a state issue. We are dealing with our country, because for Serbian radicals Serbia is above all the most important and we have no other topic. But that doesn't mean that we're going to agree to accept methods of organized crime -- well, come on now it doesn't matter, and they are, and they're not resignations. Well, are they or aren't they? Until we discuss it, I suggest you, Mr. Chairman, because this really isn't even a circus anymore, when the circus is harmless and fun for the people, this looks like a bit of a political nuthouse, because everyone knows that elections are coming and now you can do whatever they want, whoever you want, it's just important how many mandates they have. Please, Mr. Chairman, to take a break, to see if there is any possibility of getting out of this impasse, whether or not his Majesty, Minister Dinkic and her Majesty, Minister Dulic, will you tell us in any way how to proceed this session. Because to convince me that this is a minor crime or a less dangerous thing than what this guy prevented from taking him, so he took some other criminal or I don't know who, hard. And it's hard for anyone in Serbia to convince. Let's solve this problem, let's take a break, see how that problem can be solved, and then we can move on during the day. No MPs will go anywhere, none of us have any shortcuts or smarter jobs than this. For us, the National Assembly and the interest of Serbian citizens is the most pressing interest, and that should be understood by everyone. And those who left the session, getting mad at me, I don't know who they need to know, maybe resigned, I really don't know what they did, nobody knows what they did alive. I only ask that we show greater seriousness and responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens are watching this, they are looking for a serious response to what is happening here today. We don't have the right to distract them further, we don't have the right to respect each other for one thing or another, that this is going on all of a sudden, but to see whether they are ministers or not, or whether they are MPs or not. I told you this, Mr. Mihailovich, because this Parliament, not with too much respect anyway, and it sees little of what it has will lose it. I don't worry about it, I know the next parliament will be more prominent, among other things, and because there will be an even greater number of SRS MPs, which I am convinced of, but I ask you not to bring our level of parliamentary life down to the lowest possible scale. Call the heads of the parliamentary groups or representatives to see if we can get out of this, because this seems to be the end of this assembly, and the end of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that we can call elections today. That is why you are obliged to clarify and explain and to the MPs, and to the citizens of Serbia, and not so much for us here in this room, but primarily because of Serbia and those living in Serbia, and waiting for our solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29601	Mr. Wolf, the proposal has been passed. In 10 minutes, we'll have a meeting in my office, so all the heads of Parliament. I give my word to Mr Nikola Milosevic, the MP of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29602	Let me say something very short, cold head and without raising a ton. Please, first of all, Mr. Vice President, read us the agenda we adopted today, please be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29603	This is the only item of the agenda - a proposal for a decision to approve the detention of Milorad Cviovic, deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29604	Okay. Now one question that might be too high. Does the Rules of Procedure oblige us to stick to the agenda we have accepted? Yeah. Therefore, in this case, the infringement of the Rules of Procedure may only be spoken if the agenda has been passed beyond the rules laid down by the Rules of Procedure. You can't, with an explanation that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, discuss something we haven't adopted as a agenda. If the adoption of the agenda doesn't matter, then I'm asking nicely that we don't do it in the future. Why would the president even put the agenda proposal to the vote if it doesn't matter? So, let's be quite open, certain, if you follow my exposure. I listened patiently to all of you, with extreme attention, I didn't say a word while you were speaking, so I'm asking you nicely to do the same with my exposure. So, I claim that here the largest number of speakers, and accidentally, in fact, calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, broke the Rules of Procedure, because it opened up a debate that was not accepted as a agenda. I'll finish with one proposal. My proposal is that, if we want to stick to what the Rules of Procedure obliges us to leave all the critical remarks that have been made here for some next session of the Serbian Parliament. So, let the proposal be submitted as soon as possible, one session of the National Assembly of Serbia to discuss all these topics. If this proposal is adopted and I hope it will, then the debate on these issues is completely legitimate. Another request for Mr. Chairman. First of all, he is bound by the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Then I ask nicely that Mr. Chairman, by sticking to the Rules of Procedure, end the debate on what the Rules of Procedure does not foresee and that we end this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29605	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Jevtic has his word according to the Rules of Procedure. Before I give you my word, I think this is a reasonable proposal, I wanted to do it myself, ask MPs if we can get back to the agenda as soon as possible to vote. Mr. Angelkovic is going to chair, and we're going to make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29606	Here you go, Mr. Yevtice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a small replica of what a respected colleague from the Democratic Party of Serbia said. In addition to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a Law on Government, which has been spoken of by a number of MPs today. We have a member of the 23rd Law, which I'm going to read on this occasion. So, "The National Assembly at the first next session, without debate, takes note of the minister's resignation and thus ends his mandate. “ In order not to enter into the infinite interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now, I suggest this opportunity to establish the truth today in the interest of the state of Serbia, this home and the functioning of the highest state institutions. The Democratic Party is not interested in whether or not the G17 plus is in the government. We want to know the truth. We've received conflicting opinions here, primarily chairing that the ministers have resigned at the moment, which has no formal legal fact. Member of the G17 plus told us that the ministers and the vice-president of the government resigned. So the only way to determine what's true, first of all in the state's interest, is if any of the mentioned ministers or vice-presidents of the government came to us here. Although Article 226 does not require you to call on the Deputy Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, I think it would be the most effective way to determine the truth at this point. I hope that this break and the meeting that will take place will result in the invitation of ministers to come to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29608	Thank you. So we agreed to take a break for 10 minutes, so we'll continue after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29609	We're continuing our work. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29610	It's just that a man forgets what he wants to say when it comes to replicas. It was a replica to the presentation of the chairman who informed us that this press, under which the resignations of the G17 Plus ministers, including Vice-President Ivan Dulic-Markovic, had not actually been seduced, so at that moment I wanted to replicate and say that I should give a break so that this would be properly taken into account at the office of the Republika Srpska Assembly, because, apart from the date and the presses of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is no accounting number, even though there is a copy from the executives. Obviously, we now have a man who will explain it all to us, as Mr Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly, appeared, arrived in the Assembly from abroad. I don't know where he was, but one of the presidents said you were on an official trip abroad. Here's a chance for Mr. Predrag Markovic, who keeps those resignations in his safe, to let us know what's true and what's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29611	The President of the National Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure because it is the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to give notice to the MPs who are required to carry out their duties. On the other hand, I think it's rude to throw where someone's been, because I'm here to tell you that I've been prevented. Not abroad Vranjska Banja, thank God, and it won't be. I was in Vranjska Banja, because, as you know, I'm doing the job of the president of the National Assembly that you entrusted me with, and at the same time, on my case, I'm showing what citizens should do. When you are called to court, even if you are invited by judges to celebrate 160 years of rule of law, you must respond. It's an earlier commitment. What is important, you have all received a clear written notice, which I have signed and given to the vice presidents and secretary of the National Assembly (I hope it has been divided in due time), with the authority to convene and lead by the oldest vice president, Mr Mihailovic, if there is a need, a session where, if conditions are acquired, it would be discussed to take investigative actions on the grounds of suspicion that not only the state is damaged, but also employees in some companies. I realized that's what you did. In the meantime, I found out there was a political controversy, which is why I have to tell you three things. You know that in addressing the President of the Assembly there is a form – when something is handed over to the President of the Assembly by the Rules of Procedure or by law, and as far as the authority of another body in the Assembly is concerned, it is immediately seduced, copied, sent to that body, and the president is familiar with that first opportunity. In the meantime, it can cause consequences. When it comes to private mail, notices, if the president is to do so, he acts in accordance with the law. If he doesn't have to do it, then he's informing whoever wrote it to him. I hereby confirm that the notice has arrived, following the public address of the Prime Minister, following the public address of the President of the Assembly. By discussing the referendum, which you have voted on, I have made it clear – in the coming period no one, and especially the civil servants who took an oath before this assembly, can work less, but must work more. In contrast, it seems that people did not understand what legal means, and I received one notice. That notice is not officially a resignation and I, according to this, have not orally informed the MPs, because it is my obligation that, when formal legal conditions are obtained, I enter the assembly procedure 24 hours before the session is scheduled. I didn't schedule any sessions. In comparison, what the vice president noted at the beginning of the session is correct. There is no formal legal resignation that has entered the congregation procedure. Second, that's what I was going to... Because I didn't intend to schedule a session in the meantime because of the obligations that we've all taken, because we know what's important to us, and what's more important to us, and I'm going to inform the senders in writing. Third, since this is the National Assembly and I am behind this pay phone and whenever you're not here, you can't take anything personal, I am now informing you that I am here today. Tomorrow morning, due to our commitments, because 50 years ago, we showed solidarity with the people of Hungary, I'm traveling to Hungary, and I'm coming back Wednesday night, and God help me get to the game with Armenia. If someone wants to resign, and that is to be determined by the Assembly, have them file today until the end of the session or have them submit from Wednesday night when I am here again, and I will again within 24 hours, if she formally meets it, to forward it to the MPs. Thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29613	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, if it wasn't sad, it would be really funny. What you've told us, what games you're going to go to and when someone needs to call you, and when you don't, it has nothing to do with the right and legal acts. Mr. President of the National Assembly, when someone resigns to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation produces legal consequences at the time of surrender, i.e. by seduction, by having an organisational, executive number and everything else. It doesn't depend on whether you're at a game with Armenia or in Hungary, Honduras or anywhere else. That's something they should have told you today at the celebration of 160 years of rule of law, which you destroyed and destroyed today, Mr. President. I have to tell you, they told us you were going to say something else. You went out and surprised us. That wasn't very smart either, and this is worse than that. So you went out and said it wasn't formal legal resignations. I brought it for the citizens of Serbia: The government, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, 29.9.2006, Ivana Dulic-Markovic – I would like to inform you that I am resigning. With all the tears in my eyes, 2.10.2006 – Mr. President, I hereby inform you that I have resigned as Deputy Prime Minister. So it's not your place to go into what they've still written as their wishes, because the institute of enveloped resignations does not exist in the Serbian legal system. The moment they resigned, it is for you, Mr. President, an unconditional resignation, for you, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for each of us. This is about the law, this has nothing to do with when elections are appropriate, whether someone likes a referendum or doesn't like it, or anything else. This is a pure legal thing, like the sun! There's no philosophy here. You told us this morning - they didn't resign. Not you. It's the vice president of the National Assembly. Then came the men out of G17 plus and said, "Yes, we have resigned. Now now you have come out of G17, so we have not resigned. What will people in Serbia think? I don't know, maybe you think this is something that's good, that it's just important that it goes through the media, so you can manage it the way you want. So the scariest organized crime will be the one you're arresting, which the Mercator didn't give you. I'm asking you if you know this is more serious organized crime than anything else. Do you understand that? Do you understand, since you mentioned Hungary, Mr. President, that what you did is what one parliamentary group, the government, the government in general, did worse than what Gyurchani did in Hungary? He said, "We lied to the people, and not only did you say, "We lied to the people, but you said we lied, we lied, we lied, and we may lie again." Well, it's so much worse. No, the people know that they will, but they have said, "We may be again." Guys, what's this about? You have drawn men, yes, we are liars. Yes, people, we play with you; we do not care what you think and what you hear that we have endured resignations when your resignations have not been made. That's right. Mr. President, if that's the case, and this is someone who forged it, Mr. President, then someone forged this, someone for such a fake has to answer. It's a serious organized crime. I don't know why you don't have immunity today and arrest them. That's the key question, Mr. President of the National Assembly. This is not only a complete legal and political chaos, but a complete collapse of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which, unfortunately, you have contributed to, and of course, the assembly majority. Since I know your intentions, I know the intention of the authorities to say, yeah, you want to stop there, I don't know who to arrest, or I don't know what, because you have something to do with them, I remind you one more time and I'll end up and I won't take up any more of your time, so don't worry. Now let me remind you that Slobodan Radulovic was never the vice president of the Serbian Radical Party – that is, I guess, the main one in this bankruptcy mafia, as it says in the paper, I really don't know – but he was the vice president of the Democratic Party, so I'll remind you that we never had anything to do with any of these people. In order not to honor us, in a very perfidious way, we in this legal-political chaos, which you created and created, which you absolutely did in the worst possible way, in having your party come out of the assembly hall a little bit, so your party comes back to the assembly hall, because they agreed – yes, we resigned, but we still didn't bring resignations, so we'll come back... Let me tell you, this is really like wonderland. Serbian citizens can't stand it. In protest, since we see that you are determined to continue without explaining to anyone who is guilty and responsible for the most serious legal-political disgrace at Serbia level, that it is not clear to anyone today whether or not they resigned and that, after your speech, it is not clear to anyone, except that we have found that they are all liars but that fact, we have nothing more to say to you, thank you for everything you have done, thank you for everything you have shown, because you have shown that you do not respect the citizens of Serbia. You've also shown the agenda. We don't want criminal proceedings, we're going to... Although, it says in the Rules of Procedure, I won't make any mistakes here, both for determining detention and for not knowing what. It's your business, but how come you haven't noticed about anyone else, and it's for a much more serious matter? How come you didn't tell us that three days ago three vehicles were taken from customs, Ivana Dulic signed to give to Mladjan Dinkic, Ministry of Finance: "bore", "passat", and I don't know which third vehicle is. And that's under wraps, ladies and gentlemen. And since this is the resignation, and the resignation is not given, then the resignation is given, and yet no resignation is given, so we lied, but then we decided to lie even more, and then we will lie the most, and the Serbian Radical Party will not participate in it, thank you very much, we leave the Assembly, and you, with all your lies, lie bags, stay in the National Assembly, and deceive the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29615	Mr. Petrovic, I assume you want a replica, although we have a deal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29616	First of all, to correct the truth that was said here for a moment. I suppose a lot of citizens know, and I am convinced that all MPs know that in 1993 Slobodan Radulovic was expelled from the Democratic Party because he formed a government with the Socialists. Since 1993, Slobodan Radulovic has nothing to do with the Democratic Party. But Mr. Wolf is prone to false things. Besides, it's not a topic today. I want to clarify what the President of Parliament has said here. So, if I understand correctly, you told us, Mr. President, that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, as finance minister, and Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic, Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Health of the Legal Unskilled Person, were unable to write resignations, that because the legal ignorants in a bad way wrote in writing, which you received, and you will return it to them because it is not in accordance with our legal system and order. I just want the public to be familiar with one very important fact. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is five hundred twenty-and-a-half billion dinars; I am afraid that someone who is legally ignorant and is unable to find someone who can rephrase his resignation manages five hundred and twenty billion dinars of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I think that all together, and we here as MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have a big problem because the Deputy Prime Minister can't write his resignation and is unable to find someone who will read to her the Law on Government, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that she can lay down two sentences that would show her will, which should be, according to what we've heard in public these days, to come out of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will read just one sentence, on October 2nd of this year, the president of the G17 Plus Mladjan Dinkic party said -- as a result, in line with the decision of the G17 Plus Board of Directors since 13 May, and since negotiations with the European Union have not been continued, all G17 Plus ministers sent their resignations to their posts on Friday. Mr. President, I have one big grudge for what you've done. When Mladjan Dinkic was convinced that he resigned, I think you should have prevented his delusion in these ten days and informed him that he did not actually resign, it is bad that you kept him in that belief for ten days. I think things are completely different. Of course, it's serious, but we can't, under these circumstances, I can't help being a little ironic. What was the true will of Mladjan Dinkic and his ministers is that they did not actually resign. Therefore, I think that the public of Serbia must come out of today with a firm belief that lies in our policy must become the past, that someone who is the Minister of Finance and who is the Deputy Prime Minister should not deceive the public, that we must, if we want to make this country a place where decent people can live well, to be honest and correct. That's the point. Out of honesty in politics comes honesty in society. I hope this is the last time we meet with such bad things in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29617	Replica, President of the Assembly Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29618	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrovic, for helping me make it very clear once again: my job is to teach legal lessons in accordance with my powers, so that's what I'm doing. As far as the MPs are concerned, I am also informing the MPs, and I am not informing anyone about my private conversations. At the same time, I don't dare, especially when each of you is in a hurry because of your commitments, to go so far; when I say that someone hasn't written an adequate resignation, it means he has to learn to write resignations, and from that I wouldn't conclude that he can't do anything else. I don't have that right. My job and duty is to warn. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29619	Can we move to work on the established agenda, or are you looking for a word, Mr. Dacic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29620	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, who you're sitting in the front row, I don't think it might be bad that we discussed this issue. If you remember, this is what I was talking about a few weeks ago, warning that Serbia will come into a period of great political instability if such things happen. Please be clear and precise. A moment ago, we agreed, in a break, that the President of Parliament, having in mind the legal disorientation of this text which he received, i.e. the difference between the date of the resignation and the day the resignation takes effect, and the day of the resignation will necessarily precede and in some ways activate legal facts under various laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, practically, to return resignations to the beginning, to those who resigned, so let them resign later. As far as we're concerned, we all have resignations from our MPs that are secretly written and that can be activated. I've never heard anyone resign a few months in advance. So I really don't want to go into legal formulations and whether resignations exist or not, but today we're dealing with a team. Each party is running a party campaign today on this issue. I would not like to enter into the reasons and, of course, the most affected party G17 plus, which is why this is going to be down, because, in my opinion, it was much fairer that they said – because a new constitution is being adopted and because a referendum is being called we will not resign now, but we will submit them afterwards, we have agreed that after that there will be elections. This was only a way for the G17 to preserve its cheek and to meet Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's demands and suggestions. I think that's why we're all in trouble together. That is why the biggest problem will be unless our people come up for a referendum on 28 and 29 October, or if it comes out, as it throws out of the last benches a member of the New Pazar parliamentary majority, of course, our biggest problem will be what message to the world and those who want to do something with Kosovo and Metohija that would be harmful to Serbia after the referendum. Is there going to be an election? The election will be, everyone sees, everyone sees the government no longer has a parliamentary majority because of the G17 coming out of it. Is that a secret? It's no secret. Everybody knows that. Choices. It is up to us to make a political decision when we want elections in Serbia. They can be tomorrow. But can there be election campaigns and a referendum campaign at the same time? So I suggest we postpone the referendum, postpone the constitution, and deal with some side issues. That's why I don't understand the G17 decision, a decision that causes political instability. It's not in their political interest either. But that's already their question. I came out to confirm, because it depends on whether the SPS MPs will attend this session; we have warned that we will not tolerate such behaviour as it marks both there and here. If we all made a decision to support the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Socialists made it the hardest, because it's our constitution since 16 years ago, which you're changing, because we don't think this constitution is better than the previous one, and it's brought even twice as fast, three times faster than the so-called. The Frog Constitution and because there are solutions in this constitution that we are not, but we believe that they are less important than the problems of Kosovo and Metohija and that is why we have supported it all. If we've come this far, if we have a campaign ahead of us, almost half of the referendum time has passed, what have we done on that plan? We have a more active anti-referendum bloc than all the political parties that exist here today in Serbia. I just came out to ask the President of Parliament, since he didn't make it clear, I realized that we had agreed and that that's what he was going to do, that those resignations would come back. If resignations really exist, if they are there, I really don't mind, because there are political parties in the Assembly that are, like, for elections, and they pray for God that there is no choice, let the elections be called today, let them be 45 days from now, to put an end to this agony that exists here, someone is, someone isn't. No one can force a gun to be in the government, and especially not to perform such responsible and significant functions as the G17 ministers do. The second question is whether the G17 will run a referendum or anti-referendum campaign. I think they made a decision about it. But that's already their political question. The only thing we don't give is that their political issues, internally, have consequences for other political parties and for all of Serbia right now. By discussing all this today, you see that this is a central issue in Serbia today – are resignations legally valid or not? It's like a historical fact. I'd like to ask one of the parties who's here, in opposition, let's take those resignations, and see what happens. Let's pick some other ministers, let's see what happens then. Also, I was not informed that the MPs of the G17 plus resigned. If they resign, their seats will belong to the next political parties. Why not, maybe that wouldn't be bad. President, I ask you once again to clarify these resignations and papers that have been sent to you, which you did not put in the procedure in the Assembly because you returned them or you will return them to those who submitted them to so-called. A legal arrangement or a statement when they will be filed and whether they are ever resigning. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29621	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29622	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we really wanted to be good partners and respect the agreements that have been reached, but we don't want it to be according to that saying "two bad guys kill Milos" or anything to end up being ministers from G17 plus ignorant, to lie to citizens, that G17 plus doesn't know what they want, etc. So that's absolutely not true. G17 Plus ministers resigned to the prime minister, resignations were announced in the Official Messenger. And, as the entire public is aware, because of what we've all agreed together, the G17 Plus ministers have accepted the prime minister's proposal to stay together until the constitution is over. [[Applause]] So it's a decision G17 plus. If he can't, it's okay, and we'll all say together that he can't. But if we agree that state stability is above all questions, then we agree that we will all work together on it. So, G17 ministers plus responsibly, as they said, kept their promise, resigned, but agreed with the prime minister that they were ready to work on the constitutional procedure, because we all estimated together that it was essential for the stability of the state. G17 plus won't be a factor of instability. If the rest of you think that at this point the most important issue in Serbia is to activate or not activate those resignations, it's totally fine. So who could care more about being 15 days longer or not being a minister? If we didn't want the elections in Serbia to happen, we wouldn't have activated those resignations. We understand the views of other parties who think they can take other seats and everything else, just to keep their mandate as long and longer as possible. That's not our idea. We worked responsibly. We've done a lot of work. We also want to finish our work on the constitution, but, of course, if everyone in the state assesses it, because it's the responsibility of all of us and it can't be the responsibility of just the G17 plus and it can't be the responsibility of one party alone. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we can fight corruption and crime with as many words as we want, but the question is what we showed last night and today, do we really want to fight and do the most important thing here is to draw some kind of political point for our party, or do we really want to end corruption and crime both in the judiciary and in all aspects of our society? I repeat once again that the basic issue in Serbia is not about the resignations of G17 plus, but about the continuation of negotiations with the European Union, where Ratko Mladic, ladies and gentlemen, is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29623	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29624	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group came to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday to work on a certain agenda. We want all the people who have been accused of committing crimes to be brought to the attention of the judicial authorities, that this procedure is ongoing and that both bankruptcy and every other mafia is brought to justice and law. But, objectively, we were off the record yesterday, and today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the story of the resignations is being imposed, the story of a personal relationship, and it is undeniable that political arguments dominate any state. Please, I'm saying that in my own name, don't distract us. It is quite logical that after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we do not have a more significant job than working to get the constitution adopted. For if the constitution is not adopted, God forbid, then we shall all have harm—state, parties, and individuals. That is why we should all turn to the job, or to drop the questions of the resignations. At the same time, please don't make fools of us, or don't make us feel bad about someone from G17 plus trying to make a political profit. Stay away from this story about the European Union and other stories, but tell it openly – we wanted to score politically, so we failed. If the European Union says that on 1 January 2007, following Bulgaria and Romania's accession, there is a stalemate in negotiations because it is necessary to wait for the adoption of this constitution that is important for the European Union, when, at the same time, the UK and some other countries (the Netherlands) are running a covert campaign, the following can be said: the European Union is no longer expanding with new members. When an institutional framework is to be done for some future members and for some future projections of new members, it is not realistic and the EU is to be manipulated. The story's been on for a while, but it's not working now. I do not say that it is not important for us, but I say that it is not a priority, the constitution is a priority, and only then the European Union. Because with the constitution we are solving, it seems to me, a lot of things, and on the constitution we have shown that the possible agreement and unity of all possible political forces in Serbia is possible. If you want, you can accept the explanation of your fellow president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you don't want to – you don't have to. If you have courage, say that you have sinned, we will make it right, and if you do not, you do not have to. And objectively, this way you can't talk about the resignations, which is to convince us that you're blaming us for something we don't have that kind of guilt for. We came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to work and hope to finish this job. Otherwise, as for the elections, the position of the Socialist Party people is that they can be tomorrow, but consider whether it is good for the state to call extraordinary parliamentary elections at the same time as the election campaign is under way or when the international community's position on Kosovo and Metohija is expected. What is the position, the question arises, of our negotiating teams at the moment when the extraordinary parliamentary elections are discussed and whether these early parliamentary elections will be regular elections. It also raises the question whether all political parties will be able to prepare in an adequate manner. I think it would be good for the Assembly, for Serbia, for the state, for citizens to achieve political consensus in the same way as a consensus on the constitution was reached, so that we are said to adopt three, five, seven laws anyway. We've worked day and night on other points of the agenda, so we can work on these things day and night, but there's a consensus for everyone and there's an election to be discussed at the same time at all levels. Then we will be able to get political institutions, which will be with the consent of all, and what Serbia can profit from. I don't think there's any point in us pushing petty political interests into something that's the work of the National Assembly, although, of course, it's an integral part of political life in the Assembly, but at this point we don't need it, because we don't have a more important task than making a constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29625	The President of the National Assembly, Mr. Markovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29626	Thank you, Mr. Bradovich, once again, for mentioning me now, to clarify some things, so there's no confusion. Please, there is a law and there are clear, precise legal frameworks and in relation to that precise procedure. I hope we're clear on that. There is also the obligation that people, at any moment, have the right order of priorities when they decide for their citizens and decide for themselves. You showed a few nights ago that we are all aware of it together and I ask you that for this and for what's been said during this debate, we now interrupt, if you agree, political debates, because we know what our priority is. In contrast, I am notifying that on July 26th, in an advanced dialogue, I have notified representatives of the European Union of how long it has been, how it will be done and how a new constitution of Serbia will be brought in, and therefore I have received written gratitude; therefore, let us do our job, whatever the reasons have motivated us, that is why we are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-10-09-0.u29627	We continue to work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON APPROVAL OF THE DETERMINATION OF CVIJOVIĆ'S PUBLIC PUBLIC AUTHORITY For this item of the agenda, you have adopted a proposal for a decision approving the establishment of the detention of Milorad Cviovic, a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, who has submitted the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate of parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they haven't already done so, to report immediately. Since no reports have been made, pursuant to Article 160(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. In fact, we've had reports, but they're from the SRS, they're out, as far as I can tell, they're gone. Does the representative of Proposer Petar Cvetkovic, vice president of the Administrative Board, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 9 October 2006 as the day for the vote. We'll approach the vote immediately, at 3:58 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milorad Cviovic, the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. For 147, they did not vote four out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milorad Cviovic, deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Here is another announcement – since the National Assembly has conducted a discussion and a decision on the only item on the agenda of this session, but before I conclude, let me just say that I am withdrawing the motion to harm the Rules of Procedure under Rule 226, which was my personal proposal. In accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Thank you very much.
