ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24616	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 107 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to start working day. No one reported a preventee attending today's session. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, we will continue to decide at 11.00 a.m. I schedule a session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee at 10.45 hours in the first floor room. Resumption at 11.00 p.m. [[After break – 11,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. Please continue today's working day, as we have reached the vote first to determine if there is sufficient number to vote on. Please determine the quorum. I find that 129 MPs are present in the hall and that voting can, accordingly, begin. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – CHOICE OF LAWAL FUNCTIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search on decision proposals, we move to decision-making. Decision on the contested proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice No 119-119/06. Since the MP challenged the proposal of the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-119/06, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Marijana Djordjevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Verica Radet, for the President of the Trade Court in Kragujevac. For 110, against 9, abstention 9, one of 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Marijana Djordjevic as president of the Kragujevac Trade Court. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-119/06, without the disputed proposal on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, number 119-119/06, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-118/06, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am putting the vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Marinkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Varosa. For 124, against two, a abstentioned one, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragana Marinkovic as the municipal court judge in Novi Varoša. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Radmila Radisavljevic for the judge of the Trade Court in Pozarevec, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Veroljub Arsic. For 122, against two, five out of 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Radmila Radisavljevic as judge of the Trade Court in Požarevec. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-118/06, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-118/06, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Courts No 119-184/06, with a correction, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Vujos Tosic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Veroljub Arsic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Pozarevec. For 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vujos Tosic as the President of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Radisa Jovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Petar Jojic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has elected Radisa Jovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Gordan Suknovic-Bojadzija for the President of the Municipal Court in Kula, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic. For 122, against three, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Gordana Suknovic-Bojadzija as the president of the Municipal Court in Kula. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Ruzica Nikolic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Marko Krstin, for the President of the Municipal Court in Stara Paz. For 101, against one, abstention seven, no vote was made by 20, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ruzica Nikolic as the President of the Municipal Court in Stari Pazova. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-184/06, with a correction, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. For 124, against two, they didn't vote three out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the president of the courts, number 119-184/06, with a correction, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since the MP challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-185/06, with a correction, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Stojanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, for the judge of the District Court in Leskovic. For 37, against 22, two abstentions, were not voted 68 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Zoran Stojanovic as the District Court judge in Leskovac. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-185/06, with a correction, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Two out of 128 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges, number 119-185/06, with a correction, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-441/06, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting forward a proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Ivanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Petar Cvetkovic, as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. For 125, against one, they did not vote three out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Aleksandar Ivanovic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Sasa Knezevic for the judge of the District Court in Sasa Knezevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic. For 104 against 21, four out of 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Saša Knezevic as judge of the District Court in Šapec. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Jasmina Kuzmic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Veroljub Arsic, as judge of the Municipal Court in Pozarevc. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jasmine Kuzmic as judge of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. Since we have come to the conclusion on the contested proposals set out in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-441/06, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, No 119-441/06, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Since the MP challenged the proposal of the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No 119-644/06, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move to a decision. I would like to vote on the proposal by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Radojevic for the President of the Municipal Court in Ljig, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Tanasjevic. For 122, five of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragan Radojevic as the President of the Municipal Court in Ljig. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposal in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-644/06, without the disputed proposal on which the National Assembly had previously declared itself. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, No. 119-644/06, without a disputed proposal on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. Since we have come to the conclusion on the motions for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, issue 119-119/06, 119-184/06, with the correction and 119-644/06 and the contested proposals set out in these proposals, do you agree that all the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the election of the President of the Courts? I'm putting this motion to the vote. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motions for decisions on the choice of judges, No 119-118/06, 119-185/06, with correction and 119-441/06 and the contested proposals set out in these proposals, do you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act – a decision on the choice of judges? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, allow me to, on your behalf and on my behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES FOR SPECIFIC EDUCATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before we move to the vote, I remind you of the provisions of the Higher Education Act relating to the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education: - according to Article 10(1). The law, the National Council for Higher Education, has 16 members, elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1st ten members from the order of regular professors, top scientists, or artists with internationally recognised works or witnessed contributions to national culture, taking into account the representation of educational and scientific, or educational and artistic fields, on the proposal of the University of Serbia Conference; 2nd two members from the course of professional studies on the proposal of the Academy of Professional Studies, by being a member of 112. The law found that, until its education, the work of its authority will be carried out by a body made up of senior school directors who have received a solution on the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and for the exercise of activity until the date of entry into force of this law; 3. four members from the ranks of prominent persons from science, culture, education, art, or economy, of which three members are on a proposal from the Government, one of whom is a representative of Kosovo and Metohija from the University of Pristina, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, and one member on a proposal from the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. - according to Article 10(6). The law, the Conference of the University of Serbia, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, proposes no more than 15 candidates and no more than three. Authorised promoters have proposed lists of candidates with as many candidates as can be selected. In accordance with Article 10(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law, the mandate of members of the National Council for Higher Education, lasts four years and the same person can be elected as a member of the National Council no more than twice. According to Article 10(1), Article 10(1), Article 10(1), Article The law, the National Council for Higher Education, elects the president from the ranks of its members. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of 10 members of the National Council for Higher Education from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian University Conference. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Teodor Atanakovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Technical Sciences of the University of Novi Sad, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Theodore Atanakovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Technical Sciences of the University of Novi Sad. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Miklos Biro, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Novi Sad as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Seven out of 129 MPs didn't vote for 122. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr. Miklos Bir, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Novi Sad. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Živadin Bulgarian, a regular professor of the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics at the University of Kragujevac as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr. Živadin Bulgarčić, a regular professor of the Faculty of Natural Mathematics at the University of Kragujevac. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Milan Damnjanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Physical Sciences of the University of Belgrade, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Milan Damnjanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Physical Sciences at the University of Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Slobodan Dusanic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Belgrade, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Slobodan Dusanic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Antonija Djordjevic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Belgrade, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Antony Djordjevic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Darinka Matic-Marović, a regular retired professor, the Faculty of Music Arts of the University of Art as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 113, against three, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Darinka Matic-Marović, a regular retired professor, the Faculty of Music Arts of the University of Art. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Ljubomir Hungary, a regular professor of the Institute for Strategic Studies of the University of the "Brothers Karic" for a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For one, against 68, abstention 2 did not vote 58 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Dr. Ljubomir Hungary, a regular professor of the Institute for Strategic Studies of the University of the "Brothers Karic". I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Srdjan Stankovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Belgrade, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr. Srdjan Stankovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Vladisav Stefanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Nis, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Vladizav Stefanovic, a regular professor of the University of Nis Medical School. We approach the vote on candidates to elect two members of the National Council for Higher Education from the list of candidates submitted by the Conference of the Directors of Higher Schools of Serbia. I am voting on the proposal to elect Miroljub Milivojcevic, professor of More Construction and Geodetic School in Belgrade, Doctor of Mathematics, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 127, they did not vote two out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Miroljub Milivojčević, a professor of several construction and geodetic schools in Belgrade, a doctor of mathematics. I am voting on the proposal to elect a doctor of tourism as a member of the National Council for Higher Education, Djordje Comic, a professor of More Hotel School in Belgrade. For 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Djorđa Comic, a professor of More Hotel School in Belgrade, a doctor of tourism. We approach the vote on candidates to elect three members of the National High Education Council from the list of candidates submitted by the government. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr. Obrad Stanojevic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr. Obrad Stanojevic, a regular professor retired from the University of Belgrade Law School. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Alexander Ivić, a regular professor of the Faculty of Mining and Geology at the University of Belgrade as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen the academics of Dr. Alexander Ivic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Mining and Geology at the University of Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr Cemal Dolicanin, head of the University of Pristina, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Prof. Dr. Cemal Dolican, head of the University of Pristina, based in Kosovo, Mitrovica. We approach the vote on a candidate for the election of a member of the National Council for Higher Education from the list of candidates submitted by the Executive Major AP Vojvodina. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Milan Matavulj, a regular professor of the University of Novi Sad, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 143, they did not vote four out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Milan Matavul, a regular professor at the University of Novi Sad. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected members of the National Higher Education Council in the election and to wish them success in their work. We move on to the 3rd item of the agenda: – DEROVAL AND CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONSIDENT After the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move on to the decision, I remind you that the Committee for the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 1 March 2006, discussed information from the Ministry of Education and Sports, since 24 February 2006 on the work of the National Educational Council. On the basis of a statement from the Ministry's information, the Committee found in its report, with correction, that only one session of the National Education Council chaired by the minister of education and sports had been held since the date of the election of members and president of the National Education Council until 24 February 2006. In the absence of the president, the Council was unable to adopt a Rules of Procedure on its work, as well as that the initiatives of the Ministry of Education and Sports aimed at the launch of the Council did not produce results, as the president of the Council for health reasons was unable to perform his post. The Committee concluded on the occasion that the legal conditions for the resolution of academics Mikhail Đuric, acting as president of the National Educational Council, were met and proposed to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 11(10). The law on the foundation of the education and education system, academics Mikhail Đuric, resolved the functions of the president and chose instead a new president of the National Educational Council. First, we will vote, based on these findings, on the resolution of the President of the National Educational Council. I would like to put on a vote to propose that academics Mihailo Đuric be relieved of the post of president of the National Educational Council. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has relieved academic Mikhail Djuric of the post of president of the National Educational Council. Before the election of the president of the National Educational Council, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the third session of the First Regular Session in 2005, held on 23 May 2005, made a decision on the election of members and president of the National Educational Council. For members of the National Educational Council are selected: 1) from the ranks of academics – regular professors of the university: - post member of SANU Ljubomir Maksimović, - academician Milosav Marjanović; 2) from the order of members of the Matica Sr.Skraba Skraba Skraba Skraba - Prof. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Draga Svevinović, Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dragaža Popović; 3) from the order of the teacher of the University of Belgrade: - Prof. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dragažažažaža Svevinović, Prof. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Mr. Mr. Jankov Jankov – Sković, Prof. Dr. Dr. Žažažažaž. Žaš Arsenijević, University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the University of the Zoran Milojevic and Gordana Mijatović; 8) from the Community High School: - Mr Radivoj Stojković; 9) from SPC: - Prof. Dr. Irinj Bulović; 10) from the order of traditional churches and religious communities, except SPC: - Dr. Andrija Kopilović; 11) from the order of national minorities: - doc. Dr. Sefedin Šehović; 12) from the ranks of the National Employment Organisation: - Jadranka Dimov; 13) from the ranks of representative unions: - Miodrag Sokic; 14) from the ranks of the employers' association: - Dragomir Petkovic; before joining the vote, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the selection of members of the National Educational Council, has accepted the proposal of the Education Committee that if the list of candidates contains more than the number of candidates elected, a candidate who gets the most votes will be elected. Since the president of the National Educational Council will be elected among the members of the Council, except for academics Michael Djuric, a member of the Council, I propose that a candidate be elected for the President of the Council who receives the highest number of votes, with every MP being able to vote for only one candidate. I put this proposal to a vote for 123, which was not voted by 6, of the 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since the National Assembly has accepted this proposal, we are moving to elect the president of the National Educational Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect a member of the SANU, Ljubomir Maksimovic, as president of the Council. Against two, a abstentioned one, was not 126, of 129 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect academician Milosav Marjanovic as President of the Council. For six, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 121 out of 129 MPs. I'm voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr. Predrag Piper as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Alexander Lipkovski as President of the Council. Against one, not 128, of 129 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Branko Stevanovic as President of the Council. In four, it did not vote 124 out of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Andrija Veselinovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I would like to vote on the proposal to elect Professor Ratko Jankov as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Tomislav Pavlovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Nebojsa Arsenijević as President of the Council. In two, it did not vote 126, out of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milan Tripkovic as President of the Council. For one, a abstentioned one, 126 out of 128 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Radenko Krulj as President of the Council. For one, a abstentioned one, 126 out of 128 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Vesna Djukic-Dojcinovic as President of the Council. In two, it did not vote 126, out of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic as President of the Council. For 115, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12 out of 129 MPs. I would like to vote on the proposal to elect Ranka Marinkovic as President of the Council. For one, two abstentions, 126 out of 129 MPs did not vote. I am putting the motion to elect Staniša Kostadinovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Ljubomir Popovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Smiljko Stojanovic as President of the Council. In two, it did not vote 126, out of 128 MPs. I'm putting the motion to elect Dr. Zoran Kadelburg as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Nebojsa Jovanovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Milan Bursac as President of the Council. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Divna Jovanovic as President of the Council. Against one, it did not vote 127 out of 128 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Sofia Sovilj as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Vesna Markovic as President of the Council. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Bodine Starcevic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Branislav Todorov as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dr Jaroslav Radojevic as President of the Council. Abstained one, not 127, out of 128 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Alexander Milojevic as President of the Council. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Natasa Stojanovic as President of the Council. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Dragan Rapapic as President of the Council. It wasn't 127 out of 127 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Slobodan Pavlovic as President of the Council. It wasn't 127 out of 127 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Nela Vukosavljevic-Sodomka as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I would like to put the motion to be elected as President of the Council of Professors. Zoran Milojevic. Abstained one, not 128, out of 129 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Gordana Mijatovic as President of the Council. Abstained one, not 128, out of 129 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Radivoj Stojkovic as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Irinej Bulovic as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Andrija Kopilovic as President of the Council. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect a doc for President of the Council. Dr. Sefedin Shehovic. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Jadranka Dimov as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Miodrag Sokic as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dragomir Petkovic as President of the Council. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. As a result of the vote, candidate Dr Aleksandar Jovanovic from the class of teachers of teaching universities received most of the votes of MPs and at the same time the largest number of votes and was elected president of the National Educational Council. Let me congratulate Alexander Jovanovic, President of the Council on your choice and wish me success in my work. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Competition Protection Act relating to the selection of members of the Competition Commission. According to Article 36. The law, the Council has five members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of authorised promoters. According to Article 37. The law, each authorising officer submits a proposal with at least two candidates, of which the National Assembly chooses one from each proposal. According to Article 2(2), Article 75 is replaced by the following: The law, unless one of the mandated promoters submits a proposal for candidates within the deadline provided for, would be submitted by the government instead of by the mandated proponent, which also happened with the mandated proponent of the Serbian Bar Association, instead of which the government submitted the proposal. According to Article 40. The law, members of the Council are elected for five years, but extremely during the first election of members of the Council, two members are elected for a period of three years, two members for a period of four years, and one member for a period of five years. In doing so, the President of the National Assembly of the Council shall determine by lot the authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for three or four years, respectively. Now I'm going to read the names of all the authorised promoters with five CDs, which I'm going to fold, put in a drawware and then do the draw. We approach the draw, and first I draw out the tapes with the names of authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for three years: 1. Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. I'm now pulling out the titles of authorized proposings whose candidates are elected for four years: 1. The science society of Serbian economists; 2. The Association of Serbian Lawyers. I find that the candidate of the remaining authorised proposal is elected for five years and that: the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. We move to a vote on the proposed candidates, with a reminder that, under the provisions of Article 119(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the elected candidate who is voted by more than half of the elected MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposing: the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia. I remind you that the candidates: Ratomir Slepčević and Dr Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ratomir Slepcevic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For three, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 125, of 129 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For 119, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a Member of the Competition Protection Council, from the list proposed by the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, has chosen Dr Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised proposing -- the science society of Serbian economists. I remind you that they are candidates: Prof. Dr. Milic Milovanovic, and Prof. Dr. Petar Djukic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milic Milovanovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Petar Djukic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For 115, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a Member of the Competition Commission, on the list proposed by the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, has chosen Professor Petar Djukic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposal - the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. I remind you that the candidates are Miroslav Stankovic and Petar Trojanovic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Miroslav Stankovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For 123, six of the 129 MPs did not vote. 2. I am voting on a proposal to elect Petar Trojanovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Competition Protection Council, from a list proposed by the Government of Serbia, chose Miroslav Stankovic instead of the Law Chamber of Serbia, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised promoter -- the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. I remind you that they are candidates: Prof. Radovan Vukadinović and Prof. Dr. Branislav Pelevic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Radovan Vukadinovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Branislav Pelevic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. In two, it did not vote 127 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a Member of the Competition Protection Council, from the list proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, has chosen Professor Radovan Vukadinovic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised proposing -- the government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the candidates are Cedomir Radojcic and Dr Nebojsa Jovanovic. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Cedomir Radojcic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For 118, it did not vote 11 out of 129 MPs. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Nebojsa Jovanovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the Competition Protection Council, from a list proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, has chosen Cedomir Radojcic, who received votes of more than half of the identified MPs. Since we have held a vote on candidate proposals for the selection of members of the Competition Protection Council, allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my own behalf, the elected members and wish a lot of success in the work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. For 96, a abstentioned one, was not voted 32, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Deputy PRIOR OF INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN PUBLIC ASSESSMENT Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information, we move to a decision. I am putting the motion to elect Stanojla Mandic as Deputy Commissioner for Public Information. For 105, it did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to elect Stanojla Mandic as Deputy Commissioner for Public Information. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. The session is closed at 12.35 pm. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24618	The second session of the first Regular Session on 3 April 2006 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.35 pm. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. Please, at the beginning of the session, just a moment, please let us determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to begin a new session. No one reported a preventee attending today's session. I remind you, according to Article 85(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I convened this session for Monday at 10.00 p.m., so beyond the day and time set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Also, you know that this session and its beginning, which was scheduled for March 25th, I postponed, with the session starting after the first session, which just happened. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal to merge the debate. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro be put on the agenda of the International Development Association (the Revitalisation Project for the Irrigation and Disposal of Serbia), which it submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 33, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Association for Development (Component of Serbia-Montenegro - Project for Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, he did not vote 31, out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Association for Development (Project on the consolidation of payment and reform of the pension administration in Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, they did not vote 34 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed putting the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, they did not vote 33 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan to the International Development Association (Structured Adjustment of Business of the Republic of Serbia), which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There were no 45 votes for 123, out of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan to the International Development Association (Second Structural Adjustment Loan - Republika Srpska), which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, they did not vote 53, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Development Association (Credit for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector), which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the proposal for a counterguarantee law of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro be put on the agenda of the International Development Association (First Credit for Programme Development in the Private and Financial Sector), which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, 36 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 80 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a resolution on the drastic violation of the human rights of Serbian citizens indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 March 2006. There'll be a statement on the agenda, item 16a, don't worry. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 85, against 105, two of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the motion for an emergency procedure. There's going to be a statement, I'll say. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to finance the mining equipment procurement project for surface digging "Tamnava - West Pole", which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 March 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 119, v. 6, a abstentioned one, did not vote 66, of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Cooperative Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 March 2006, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 118, against one, they did not vote 73, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Krasic, based on Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed extending the agenda to the point of the motion for a resolution on the drastic violation of the human rights of Serbian citizens indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, who was filed by a group of 80 MPs of the SRS. How to comply with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may request an extension of the agenda for proposals for acts which, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, have met the requirements to be included in the agenda of the sitting, under Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the sitting may not be included in the draft act before the expiry of the period of 15 days from the date of submission. The motion for a resolution, on which the National Assembly declared itself within the framework of an emergency agenda proposal, was submitted on 22 March 2006, which means that 15 days have not passed since the day of submission, i.e. the condition that the motion for a resolution should be placed on the agenda of this session on the basis of a proposal for an extension of the agenda. Here you are, Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24620	I have to say at first that all the conditions are met, because if we wait for these deadlines read by the President of the National Assembly, then that would mean you in The Hague are free to kill our citizens, we wait 15 days to pass, and then we'll think about who's next. It is precisely because this would not happen, and expressing the view both of the Prime Minister and of the president of the Republic of Serbia, who had already made a sharp criticism of what is happening in The Hague tribunal on 11 March this year, and when it comes to the indicted Serbs. Just a reminder, six of our men tragically ended the trial in The Hague. Milosevic was poisoned, because the searchful council could not pass an acquittal, but could not pass a verdict condemning him, and then the formula was found in constant poisoning and the procedure was completed. Perhaps you have had the opportunity to hear that many international organisations are asking to review the work of the UN tribunal. In addition, the Russian Duma first appeared with one statement, which is in the ranks of the declaration, which required the closure of The Hague tribunal, because no one needs it. There's no justice there. I hope you don't need me to explain to you the anti-Serbian stand of that illegal court. I hope I don't particularly need to explain to you that few can say that the moral person is if he invites some to surrender voluntarily to The Hague tribunal, and it is aware of these facts of what is happening there. Djordje Djukic was released from the tribunal to be free until the trial began, and he was released because he was seriously ill to die outside the court. Milan Kovacevic died. Dokmanovic committed suicide. Milan Babic committed suicide and left a suicide note describing under which pressures he agreed to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. So, regardless of the minute of silence, you've had a chance to hear what our citizens think of The Hague tribunal. Probably over 80% of our citizens are asking this country to raise its voice, even with a resolution like this, to express its dissatisfaction with the human rights of our people in The Hague tribunal in such a brutal way. The deadly consequence is something that's most obvious. In these few seconds, I will only show you that there is one prisoner in The Hague, the only one on the globe, who is not recognised by any human rights, and that is Vojislav Seselj. It's your colleague, who went from this hall voluntarily to The Hague to defend Serbian interests and to break up The Hague tribunal. Perhaps if you follow what your voters think you have sent to this assembly, I hope you will accept that this point is placed on the agenda, to open the debate, to show on concrete examples all forms and aspects of human rights violations in an international court. I call upon all MPs to support the inclusion of this item's agenda. I don't want to affect you how you're going to vote if it gets into the agenda. It is possible that you disagree with us on the assessment, but let's open the debate, because we haven't had an open debate here in years about what the UN tribunal is from the human rights point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24621	Thank you again, Mr. Krassic. I thought it was very important, although the Assembly has spoken of an emergency procedure and putting the point on the agenda today, I think it's very important that we hear a clear explanation by Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, because it is a subject that certainly deserves the attention of the consideration in this congregation. Once again, I thank all those who supported my reason for hearing the explanation, so that we don't get involved in those business times exactly how many days have passed. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance and co-operation in customs matters, - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the Republic of Serbia - Novi Sad, - Proposal for a law on the grant of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the project to improve the state of schools - Serbia-Montenegro, - Proposal for the law on the loan of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia - the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Montenegro to the Republic of Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Before I put this proposal to the vote, first according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24622	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know you've barely reached the quorum for this session. Wait, first of all, let me say the metric so you can react. Just because you're barely getting on with it, it's a notorious fact, but that doesn't mean we have to solve all Serbian problems right now. Now that you're 126 in the O.R., pack up. Excuse me, Mr. Albianic, how can I agree to discuss these 15 points of the agenda as one item of the agenda? What does that connect them to? It's just a word of credit. Well, not every loan is the same. We can't say for every law that mentions the word credit to say, well, it's all going into a joint debate. Or maybe you know what ties Iran and Croatia? Maybe it's something to do with you. I don't. I have agreements here that I would like to vote on, there are agreements that I want to attack from the point of view and from the Serbian Radical Party programme, and from the point of view of the economic programme, so please, Mr. President, don't do this. Four months ago, we parted, like nothing happened, like we broke up last night, got into an O.R. this morning, and all the problems are back in front of us. The quorum problem creates problems in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one would ever think that 15 points of the agenda would be put together in one, absolutely unrelated, except that there would be no quorum next time that session was scheduled. Serbian citizens see what it is, they are absolutely convinced that you do not deserve to be the majority in this National Assembly. They're absolutely convinced that apart from the fear of choice, nothing puts you together here anymore, just a panic fear of choice, and you on the left and you on the top of the hall upstairs. Fear that the citizens will have the opportunity to show their will. Well, that's not justifiable fear, that's disrespect to the citizens, and don't mention the results of the local elections... So here's why, because we beat you here. And if Kostunica were to give me the money that Veli has to go to the polls on local self-government, I don't know if any of you would still show up to win any votes. If I had half the budget available for the King's campaign, I wouldn't be stupid enough to promise an airport in the village of Chukojevac. Then I ask you, why do you have so much cynicism for municipalities where there is no choice? How do you invest in development only in municipalities that currently have additional elections, and is the problem with other municipalities not having an election? And the third problem with other municipalities is that someone else is in power. You are worse than Slobodan Milosevic. The rest of his soul, compared to you, he was a great Democrats, compared to you that little poor thing that we had rightly arranged. But when they won't call off the support of those who should, so they won't push the yellow into this room, there's nothing they can do about it. I'm just saying one thing to you -- whatever you're putting together these agenda points, if we want this session to last long, it's going to take a long time, because you're not smart enough to figure out a way to make it impossible for radicals to discuss in this room. You are not skilled enough to prevent Serbian citizens from participating in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And to you, Mr. Markovic, I would like to announce congratulations on your courage to enter the hall and take the session of the National Assembly of Serbia against your will, and in accordance with the will of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24623	I thank you for your congratulations, but as you know, Mr. Nikolic, I never do anything against my will, and it is my will to respect the decisions of the National Assembly, and compared to that... Just to check, Mr. Nikolic, did I realize that you did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you pointed out, by reporting to the Rules of Procedure, that this proposal, which is strictly business order, is in a certain way, there is no reason, it is not a policy, it has met business conditions, but you simply say that the MP who has proposed a merger of this large number in this way raises doubts about the essence of the fundamental debate in just five hours of 15 legislative proposals. So, do you stay on your proposal; it's okay, then we put you to the vote. Do you want to open up a hearing on the Rules of Procedure now? Here you go, then, Mr. Angelkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, as reported, so Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Peric. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24624	I don't know if anyone else is gonna answer the Rules of Procedure or not, I don't really care, but two things I have to say. First, if Mr Albianic had suggested only two points of merger, I would be against it. That's what I said publicly, and we'll vote against when he proposes a two-point merger. This may not be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The merger of 15 points into one, where counterguarantees, on the one hand, and on the other hand agreements, is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure's point of view that allows the merger of the dots. If we accept 15 points today, one day I expect that if it is 30 points on the agenda, we will get all 30 points as Mr. Albianic's proposal, to merge and discuss five hours. It's not about whether the debate will last five hours at a time. I don't think all 15 should be connected, and I don't think each one should be, but when you propose, Mr. Albianic, you suggest a rational proposal. Independent of that, even when you suggest so, I'll be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24625	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic and then Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24626	Mr. Markovic, you gave me the right to explain in three minutes our proposal to extend the agenda, but you did not put that proposal to a vote, while at the same time you tried to put Mr. Albianic's proposal to the vote and push those 15 points through a five-hour principled search, while reading where this proposal finds that, if certain points of the agenda pass, he proposes a merger. So he knew in advance what he was going to go through. I guess his proposal doesn't meet the basic requirements of the Rules of Procedure. He can demand a merger, a unique debate for those points he receives in the invitation. He can't ask for those points he imagined might come. How did he know how you'd decide here? I'd just like to warn you, Mr. Markovic, you've already committed an abuse, so I have to tell you, because you've put the vote to vote on whether our motion for a resolution is to enter into an emergency procedure, you've used this revote, and then you find it appropriate to say that the conditions are not met, and I'm telling you that all the conditions are met, that the debate can run according to resolution. What was done here most of the time, people were brought out of here because of the majority when she was Micicka, some of them weren't allowed in here because of her whim, and they weren't most. If this item of the agenda proposed by the SRS is not included in the agenda, you will have five laws to discuss the UN tribunal, because it is wanted by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then you will consider who represents the citizens here and who represents the virtual quorum. I don't think the conditions for this Albianic proposal have been met and there is no need to vote on it at all, and I urge you to allow MPs to vote on the SRS proposal to extend the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24627	Mr. Krasic, I must strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, which says that the statement first comes about the emergency procedure, then the extension of the agenda, and the merger of the dots. That's how the Rules of Procedure was made. Since the emergency procedure was not voted upon, it was not possible to extend the agenda at this session, but I felt it was very important to hear the argument, precisely because the Rules of Procedure had provided for that order, and in this way it could happen that we could not hear at all the arguments I have read to you, that we do not read again. That was why it was important for us all to hear again together the reasons why the promoter asked to place something as an extended agenda. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24628	Mr. President, I've looked up the Rules of Procedure a long time ago, and you've given me the third word in a row. Whatever. You're saying that business conditions are met to combine the dots, but I have to ask you to keep an eye on who's giving you these suggestions, you need to think about who suggested it. You've been suggested by a man who doesn't know what's coming together or what's not coming together, who has nothing to do with life. The man who suggested this to you is the only one who knows how to let go of the balloons and look forward to someone dying. Is that how you get the suggestions here?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24629	Mr Peric, according to the Rules of Procedure, any MP can make this kind of proposal, which is then put to the vote by the Rules of Procedure, and I am obliged to respect it, and I equally respect all MPs. First Miss Jovanovic and then Mrs Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24630	Mr. Markovic, I'm not surprised by your confusion. You've begun to forget what they're called and what they're called. You haven't been in the chair for four months, so nothing surprises me. You have lost so much direction, as Mr Nikolic said, as if we were now in December, 17th or 20th and some December. And if it were a April 1st joke, it wouldn't be April 1st, it would be a lot. I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses how the President of the Assembly should schedule meetings, how to chair them, and in particular to pay particular attention to the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies. This man who suggested that this could not be combined into one item of the agenda, it is just as fantastic as those points of the agenda in the municipal congregations of this organization, or as it is called -- strangers, which can't even transfer a stick of census, that man not only didn't think about what this is about and whether those decisions have passed certain working bodies, but obviously in your problems and in your thinking from resignation to resignation, Mr. Markovic, it was also not important. First, because all the working bodies of the Assembly have not passed these acts that you are proposing to us and because it is impossible for you, in the context of a single debate, and I do not believe that you intend to increase it three or four times, we are seriously talking not only about loans but about your willingness to give the Republic of Serbia and these poor citizens counter-guarantee for projects that are mindless, least of all, some of them. Not only because it will cost budget bonds directly, but because you had the most difficult job today, as Mr Nikolic and Mr Krasic warned you about. You are the President of the Assembly, including in resignations, and so on with a nonchalant attitude in front of journalists, in front of the public, and I will, and I won't, you have to know, Mr Markovic, that one of the biggest states in the world, the friendly Russian Federation, did not wait for us to meet the conditions in the way that you want to present that you are a democratic president, to respect strictly the Rules of Procedure and to give us such explanations. Two days after Slobodan Milosevic was killed from his offices, MPs in Russia's state Duma, they went down to the hall and started a debate and with a declaration asking for the anti-Serbian Hague case to be lifted. It's funny to you, beautiful and colorful. You're in the light here. You have not wondered whether all the prisoners who are there on the justice of God and who do not start the process, as our president, have light, whether they have basic opportunities and conditions to prepare for their defense. You don't care about stepping into their defenses or criticizing the current government. Of course not, because you have no elemental sense for your countrymen. (President: Time. () First of all, because you are all the opposite of them, you have never been ready to defend either the state or your people. Your MPs' chairs, your chairs on boards, ministerial posts, large receipts, colorful chandeliers, colorful balloons and all that's in your heads, it's all more than the state and the people. That's why you're running out of time, and that's why you're the way you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24631	Here you go, Mrs. Radeta. It is according to Article 27 that I take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and I quote in detail the members by which what is happening. I also, as you know, measure time by calendar, and I chaired naturally this assembly the last time it was a session, which was February 27th.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24632	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been broken by the Rules of Procedure in calling this session itself, that is, the way the session has already been postponed for today, that is, the other day when you were eventually ready to provide a quorum for the vote and start of a new session. Your anxiety shows that you are not ready for the election because you are not ready to lose power after the election, because you are aware of these facts and it is simply amazing and the citizens of Serbia wonder when they look at these days as we start, when they look at the first order of business, and then how long it takes you to collect the quorum, and then at the end when you collect the quorum, every time you collect the quorum, you would say that you have at least two-thirds of the majority, and you have all kinds of furniture, shopping, etc. You're barely able to secure the quorum. Then what are you doing? Then you try to connect incompatibly and then someone finds themselves smart to suggest what is on the agenda, and what might be on the agenda, exactly as it stands in the letter that we got in the material. But I would like to warn you, dear colleagues, to Article 140, which was invited by an MP who requested the merger of these points. Among other things, that, in a joint principled search, points can be combined if they are conditioned or are linked to each other, with the decision being carried out in particular. If you have accidentally read, you who will vote for this proposal, I would really like one of you to come out and explain to us where the points are conditioned or where the solutions in them are interlinked. What does the proposal for a law on ratification of an agreement between the government of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance and co-operation in customs matters with, for example, the next point, which is the proposal for a counterguarantee law of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance the renewal of the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. Whoever finds a common ground here in accordance with Article 140 will be declared an unseen expert. You are distracting Serbian citizens with such and similar suggestions so that there is no expression of what is the essence of what we have proposed today, as Mr Krasic suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. You don't care what happens in an anti-Serbian criminal anti-civilization so-called. Court. You don't care what Serbs kill there, you don't care how basic human rights are violated there. You don't care if Vojislav Seselj is the only one who's locked up there with no light sitting in the dark. You don't care when he hasn't been in a situation to report to his family for seven months. You don't care, you're just looking to fulfill what they're asking you to do and more than what they're asking you to do. Vuk Draskovic, on behalf of the negotiating team, offers what no one is asking him to and you do not want to open a debate on the subject because you think you can fool Serbian citizens. You can't, and we won't get out of this room, and whatever's on the agenda, you'll hear the story of the crimes in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24633	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just as Mrs Radeta said, according to a member of 140 who was invited by the MP and a member of the 90th to whom the MP was called, I put it as a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24634	Mr. Markovic, I thought you best knew this Rules of Procedure since you wrote it according to your wishes. I'm referring to exactly that provision that speaks of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 100. The first time I went out and pointed out what you hurt when it came to the Rules of Procedure, you were obliged to give me an answer, so unless I was satisfied with the answer to say that in the day of voting, the National Assembly would plead the injury. You didn't do it, not just for my advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but for other MPs of the SRS. You've done an even more serious injury to me in this communication, while I've been in my position, you've tried to use your shoulders and voice to indicate that you want it, but simply the Rules of Procedure is a distraction. Please, Mr. Markovic, do you expect him to fall in The Hague on the seventh, eighth and ninth victims so that you can get it on the agenda? Go online, see what's going on in The Hague. The court's secretary called on the Swedish government to form a commission to examine the conditions in the detention unit. The Minister of Justice of France visited the Hague tribunal these days. The international public has risen over the UN tribunal. In Serbia, the government of Vojislav Kostunica does not allow the UN tribunal to discuss. The citizens of Serbia, you understand, this shortened DOS is no different from those "yellow" who are currently absent, so DOS in its entire composition is the only instance on the globe that needs The Hague tribunal. You're feeding The Hague tribunal, looking for these victims, enjoying these victims, not just those balloons that that unfortunate man was wearing. You find in The Hague tribunal a modus vivendi for you. Mr. President, put on the motion to extend the agenda to this point to open a debate on The Hague tribunal and only in that part of the violation of the basic human rights of Serbs in custody. You're bound to do it. This country takes care of its citizens no matter where they are. We are not going to let one Rasim Ljajic tell us some swan songs here about some rights or Vojin Dimitrijevic, or Natasa Kandic. If so, then resign and let Natasa Kandic come because she rules you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24635	Mr. Krasic, I really didn't realize the first time you asked for an injury, because when there's a request for an extension of the agenda, just like when there's an emergency procedure, it's not decided by the President of the Assembly, you know that, the Assembly decides. Since the Rules of Procedure first declares the urgent procedure and since the Assembly has declared that it does not accept an emergency procedure, not the agenda point, I simply have to respect consistently every item of the Rules of Procedure, and I have informed that the 90th extension of the agenda may be requested for proposals of acts that have been met by the Rules of Procedure to be included in the agenda of the sitting. Also, pursuant to Article 138(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the sitting may not be included in the draft act before the expiry of the period of 15 days from the date of submission. I'm reading to you. Be nice. The motion for a resolution declared by the National Assembly in the context of an emergency agenda proposal was submitted on 22 March 2006, which means that 15 days have not passed since the day of submission, i.e. the condition that the motion for a resolution should be placed on the agenda of this session on the basis of a proposal for an extension of the agenda. It's something that I've made public, and after that I asked you to speak, and I gave you my word just because I thought, like you, it's very important to explain the request, but I stick to the rules that everyone is responsible for his job. I answer to everyone, we liked or did not like some provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so I stick to the order in which it goes, and I am obliged to inform the entire National Assembly. Thank you for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, I'm sorry this is slow sometimes, but we need to get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia. It's not that slow, Mr. Markovic, because you'd like to say that the MPs of the SRS are coming out and I assume that some genius, balloon or something like that, are going to say that someone's doing an obstruction, because they don't know anything else to invent, they didn't say anything smarter. It is you who have been obstructing Parliament's work since the beginning. Why? When we apply for a vote of no confidence to any minister, it can't come to the agenda. You're looking for a government shift, it can't come to the agenda. You adopted the famous Maximus of Cedomir Jovanovic – the opposition cannot bring down the government and the opposition cannot even talk about the minister because she did not choose him. How pointless it doesn't even take me to tell you. Why don't you put an end to the agenda and an emergency procedure? Because you won't put her on the agenda and past the emergency procedure, because you don't put a report on the work of the Energy Mafia and financial and banking affairs on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a year and a half, and it's not an emergency procedure. He's been gone for a year and a half in front of the people's messengers. There is no report because individual names of criminals who support whether Boris Tadic or the Serbian government should not be heard, however. Does that have anything to do with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic? Never mind. I came out to tell you something else. Since I see that you love the Hague tribunal a lot, that you are almost in love with it, that on some war crimes charges today, EUFOR came out with official data, a certain Haris Gavrancic said it was proven that Dragomir Abazovic was not shot at members of the occupation troops, but that they had opened the fire themselves, almost killed him, killed his wife and wounded his son. Has our country done anything? Did these occupation media, or their outposts in Serbia, say anything about this? Will they say anything to Serbian citizens about this matter or is it normal for Serbian children to be killed, to have women killed, according to the Rules of Procedure or without Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic? Are you saying that the Russian Duma, that there are not very good people or are they not quite normal when they adopt and make decisions in favour of Serbia and against The Hague tribunal? Do you underestimate Russia as a state? Are you saying – Serbia knows much better than Russia is protecting international public law and how and how should Russia protect Serbia and the former presidents much better than the Serbian parliament should? You're humiliating Serbia, you're not going to discuss it. Why are you afraid of the debate? Let's talk about it, so you vote against it. My men, you were not ashamed to sit down, to sit down, to go outside for a minute of silence. Some were not ashamed to wear balloons at the time of someone's funeral, which no normal man on the globe ever did, not a politician. Never one. You've already shown that. What do you care, you'll be proud to say that you are for Vojislav Seselj's lack of electricity, that Vojislav Seselj is 100 meters of bathroom, that Vojislav Seselj is not given trial after three and a half years. Tell that to the public that you're up for it, tell the people if you agree. Shut up? He tells you media adviser President Boris Tadic and says – you need a pole in the parliament in a biological substance of unpleasant smell. That's what he said last night. You keep your mouth shut. And you want me to tell you why? Because it takes such a stick of such biological content for you, and for that counselor, and for the president of his Democratic Party, and that's what's absolutely safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24637	I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24638	Don't warn me, it's the president of DS Boris Tadic. That's what he said, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24639	Mr. Vukiæu, I warn you that I cannot influence, of course, in any way that typical fascist statements appear on a public show.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24640	It's a good thing you said that about President Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24641	Statements that are against the National Assembly because they are against parliamentary democracy, but you are an MP in the National Assembly and you during the session I must warn you to choose such expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24642	But I had to quote and condemn fascist statements. I only did so, as I condemn the fascist behaviour of the majority not to allow what the whole of Serbia and Serbian citizens are looking for to be on the agenda today, not to appear on the Serbian Parliament's agenda. Thank you. ) Thank you, too, but let me tell you something else. You, Mr. Markovic, can take it off the agenda, I know you've got as many spare players on your bench as you want. And she doesn't want an SPS, she's got someone, a gorgeous one, the one who switched real coffee. They're here now for the SPS to substitute DS, so they'll come. You will also have those who will support you as much as you will in criminal rule, but not you people, it's for nothing. And when you boast so much about these results, when you're winning so powerfully everywhere, let's go to the polls, and you'll win nicely, and you'll see how the people like a broom, and with iron, will clean you up from the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24643	According to Article 27, the President of the National Assembly responds to the Assembly by taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly’s working bodies, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and also in writing, such as the move of the session, and the oral one, reading the views of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you that there is no reason to discuss this, unless there is a problem that something has been broken by the president, just as I ask you that what I just said is that it is not in any way a statement about a man who has done such a thing, but I simply remind you that the fascist rule began with the burning of the Reichstag and the idea that parliament should be destroyed. I owe it to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I thought you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24644	In rare moments of brilliance, Mr. Markovic, speak the truth. Yes, anyone who fires the Assembly introduces dictatorship and fascism into one state, and I guess that's clear to everyone. Let's see how you schedule sessions and how you select materials by estimating whether they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. You received a proposal on 24 March to combine certain points of the agenda. You accepted the proposal, sent it to the MPs, not thinking about whether it had met its business conditions and failed to meet the parliamentary conditions, because the Rules of Procedure requires that one who proposes the merger of certain points of the agenda prove that solutions are mutually conditional or interrelated. Mr. Albianic's proposal should have been rejected immediately and you should have said sorry, Mr. Albianic, but as president of the National Assembly, I don't see any connection between these points of the agenda. I don't see how this will affect if we discuss Croatia especially from the debate on Iran, especially from the debate on the pension fund, especially from the debate on reforming the situation in schools. My people, you can put the whole session together, whatever it is on the agenda, you can put it all in one item of the agenda. For you solutions contained in certain laws, the name of the law, are not at all the basis, it is not a motive for you to decide whether you can discuss it on your own or whether you can discuss it in the package. It is important to you that these are the laws proposed by G17 + and that we avoid the debate of 15 points proposed by G17 plus. The less talk about G17 plus, the more let them work, since Serbia is failing anyway. They've ruined the financial sector, you've ruined our reputation in the world, they've ruined each other, they've ruined the third, they've taken each other's feed, they don't touch each other. You don't touch, because if you wanted to, you'd tell each other what you think about this way of working, this way of working. You will not do the agenda that the SRS proposes, even when they meet their business conditions. For you there is no MP or parliamentary group of SRS, our proposal has never come to the agenda, never. You will not discuss the proposals that we consider relevant, and you want us to keep you company and to participate in a debate that is relevant to you. Why is there a congregation, to hear each other, to spread ideas both. There is no congregation to gather you 126, to make the agenda and to keep talking about what you would like. It's a dictatorship, then. There are others to be heard. And, Mr. President, if anyone publicly pronounces it, and it is a political figure and advises the President of the Republic, if he publicly insults all elected MPs of the National Assembly, and has never personally gone to any elections, it is your duty at the beginning of this session to protect the National Assembly, not me. I don't know, I don't care who he is or what his name is or what he does. I have no idea, I don't watch shows where people don't mean anything in politics, I don't have anything to hear, I don't have anything to learn. But to protect the institution, Mr. President of the National Assembly, because whoever comes in here to disperse us with a stick wet in feces, first the President of the Assembly, because you invited us here. I wouldn't be here today if I didn't get a call from you. I'm getting a call, and someone's chasing my president with a stick. He can't, Mr. President, I'll protect you both physically and publicly. No, I want to beat you with ideas, you beat me with ideas. But tell the President of the Republic, one far smarter man than all of us three years ago said that whoever's a sword is a sword and dies. Tell the President of the Republic not to play with the people and patience, and not to play with the reputation of the National Assembly, so that there are no MPs in that assembly. When he sends them here to fight, to go out on the moon, let him give reviews of the National Assembly. I suggest, Mr. President, that you do not accept the motion to merge the debate on these points of the agenda, I guarantee you, you open Pandora's box. Unfortunately, I have to go, I have a meeting with the ambassador of a vast friend country of ours, I don't know what I'm going to tell him, why we're not discussing the UN tribunal resolution. Indeed, I don't know what to say to him, because this country has been saying for weeks now that it doesn't know what we Serbs want. People say they can't be more Serbs than we do and that's where they think, Mr. President, both of you and Tadic, and of Kostunica. Whenever Serbia has a big problem, you don't defend Serbia. You do not respond to the resolution of the Duma condemned by The Hague, it answers your call from Brussels to hand over all the people to The Hague. You put the heads up, there's people here, there's Mike, he knows, you're like when a man bends a horse, so you put him on the side of something by accident, you get him right, and he doesn't get the horse to decide for himself, so he gets out of the way he drives him. Take those heads off your head, release your eyes, release your brain. Not everything is beautiful in the West, not everything is ugly in the East. Not everything is beautiful in the East, not everything is ugly in the West. Don't look like that, please. You are required to discuss the Hague tribunal. I'm not warning you that it's easy for you to judge people who fought for the country. Today, 15 years later, those who did not fight are easily judged by those who fought. I warn you, you've got a agenda here to wash off your responsibility for being served by no one since October 5th. Think about it, I hear the Prime Minister said he only now understands some people who have exercised power at a certain time. Try thinking like that, that one day someone would say, that was in that assembly where the DSS had most. The congregation did not want to discuss it. The assembly approved that we abolish Serbia-Montenegro before the time, that we take guarantees today based on guarantees already provided by our state union, that we now appear as a guarantee to our common state. Are you out of your mind? At least wait for that referendum, don't separate us. That's why G17+ doesn't want to show what's going on with these laws. With these laws, Serbia tells international institutions, therefore, in financial terms, that the common states are no longer, but, well, we're out of business, we're going to protect their capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24645	Thank you. Once again, I remind myself that I am obliged to do so, therefore, in article 27 during the chair of the National Assembly, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly must ask the National Assembly of the Rules of Procedure, as he has done so far, to make a statement on the proposals and in comparison, he cannot decide for himself, but he only represents the National Assembly. Please don't take it personally in that sense. Once again, does Ambassador Milorad Albianic want a word in explaining the counterguarantee proposal? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please, we've been working on a fixed quorum all along. For 106, against 19, they did not vote two out of 127 MPs. I find that after this discussion, the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please, we've been working on a fixed quorum all along. For 107, against 20, of 127 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, submitted by the Government (Number 580-2246/05, of 29 September 2005, 2. Proposal for a Rehabilitation Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-2751/05, as of 25 November 2005, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amnesty, which was submitted by the Government (number 240-2975/05, since 16 December 2005, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which was submitted by the Government (number 351-2467/05, since 21. October 2005, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Arms, which was submitted by the Government (number 310-2495/05, of 25 October 2005). Year), 6. Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance and co-operation with customs matters, which the Government has tabled (number 483-2383/05, since 12 October 2005), 7. Proposal for a law on the granting of a counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, which was submitted by the government (number 400-1918/05, from 22 August 2005), 8. The proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance a project to improve the state of schools -- Serbia-Montenegro, which was submitted by the government (number 400-2976/05, since 16 December 2005). Year), 9 / 09 The proposal for a law on the granting of a counterguarantee to Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association loan (A project to revitalise Serbia's irrigation and disposal system), which was submitted by the government (number 400-410/06, since 24 February 2006), 10. Proposal for a law on the granting of the counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Association for Development (Component of Serbia-Montenegro - Project for Serbia), which was submitted by the Government (number 400-411/06, since 24 February 2006,), 11. The proposal for a law on the granting of a counter-guarantee to Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association loan (A project for the consolidation of payment and reform of pension administration in Serbia), which was submitted by the government (number 400-412/06, of 24). February 2006, 12. Proposal for a law on ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters, submitted by the Government (number 483-519/06, of 8 March 2006), 12a Proposals for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kljajevic, President of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and Delinka Djurdjevic, Judge-President of the Bank of the Commercial Court in Belgrade (Article 162(3)). Rules of Procedure, 13 April 2006, 13. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association's loan (Structureal adjustment of the economy of the Republic of Serbia), which was submitted by the Government (number 400-532/06, from 10 March 2006); 14. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit of the International Development Association (Second loan for structural adjustment - Republika Srpska), which was submitted by the government (number 400-531/06, since 10 March 2006), 15. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Development Association (Credit for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector), which was submitted by the Government (number 400-530/06, since 10 March 2006), 16. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit to the International Development Association (First loan for programme policy development in the private and financial sectors), which was submitted by the government (number 400-591/06, since 17 March 2006,), 17. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW, under the mandate of JP "Electroprivreda Serbia" to finance the mining equipment procurement project for surface copy "Tamnava - West Pole", which was submitted by the government (number 400-663/06, from 24 March 2006, 18. Proposal for a law supplementing the Cooperative Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 023-662/06, from 24 March 2006), 19. Proposal for a decision on the selection of Citizens' Protectors, which was submitted by the Committee of the National Assembly on Constitutional Affairs (number 02-746/06, of 3 April 2006). Please, just a moment, let's finish another vote. Do you agree? Yeah. Thank you. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has proposed that Article 162(3) be applied. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, puts the draft decision on the election of the Citizens' Protectors, which was submitted on 3 April 2006. I remind you, therefore, it is not a member who regulates the placement of resolution points and legal acts, but those functions elected by the Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 120, against one, there was no vote of 8 out of 129 MPs. I also find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We'll move on to work according to the established agenda of the session. Prior to that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Vukic, MP, and I am notifying, I know Mr Aligrudić, I would like to inform you that we will then take a break to hold the Legislative Committee in a small room, which has been scheduled by the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and then there will probably be a break. But first, MP Alexander Vukitch. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. What was happening in parliamentary life was also an insult to MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24647	Please allow the MP to speak, please be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24648	So I don't mind how you get most of it, it's just necessary for the Serbian citizens to know that this, this kind of agenda with the joined points, and without what the Serbian radicals were looking for, and it was quite clear what it was about and that this agenda would be voted out, voted by the DSS parliamentary groups, G17 plus, the SPO, these breakaway variants, the SDP, New Serbia and the SPS MPs. For the agenda of Milosevic Albianic, they gave the quorum and they inserted the cards and that's what Serbian citizens need to know. Serbian citizens should know that this would be repeated, of course, and that the SPS MPs were not there, as they would be representatives of Boris Tadic, it is quite certain. It is good that Serbian citizens can see who votes and who acts as well as how. I'm asking you, Mr. President, one question, when will the report on financial and banking affairs, the energy mafia and abuses, which was delivered to you a year and a half ago? When the SRS proposals on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, the Law on Legalisation and other laws will come on the agenda. Perhaps it does not occur to you that any time in Serbia's history it comes to the agenda. I know you can do this, I don't mind, you have the right, it's your democratic right to solve it in such a way, you just don't have to insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens and tell them about the blatant differences between your parties or I don't know what, when you're all blowing on the same pumpkin and when you're making the same preparations for the citizens of Serbia, just like if you are, God forbid, trying to arrest General Mladic or I don't know what. All together will be supported in one way or another by your, or occupation exposition media B92 and I don't know which other. There's no difference there. These are the ones who will send a team to the Shop and say that some MP has taken over 20,000 euros, and next to him is a man who has reported profits to a fivem-euro firm, by selling air, who will neither ask nor say anything. It's no big deal, it's worse than scary. And with all that, his diaphragm will appear and say, as you say, that he should make a fascist statement and declare to the public that a stick should be dipped in the biological substance of an unpleasant smell and someone to exorcise. Here, since he's so brave, I'm waiting for him, he doesn't have to slip into any biological substance, I suggest he take three poles and bring all of his tents from Boris Tadic's cabinet. I'll go out myself and see if he can do anything. (President: Time. I'm sure they don't think they're doing it, so they know what cowards they are. They think that a common people should drive someone away, so if they drive him, they should bring him to their doors first, and then they should come to your door, because you are no different from them, because you are together with them and in crime, and in thieving and in every kind of banditism which today is like a monster to our Serbia. [[Applause SRS]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24649	I hope you're not telling me, please, Mr. Wolfie, since you started speaking to the President of the Assembly, I hope these words aren't the last words to me? I'm asking you clearly: are the words addressed to me, the ones relating to the criminal? I'm waiting for an answer. I ask, are those words to me personally or are you speaking to me... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: My words were quite clear.) Crystally clear. ) Since I did not understand you, and I have to chair the session, I ask you, please, you have reached out under Article 104, so the violation of the Parliament's dignity, and if I understand you well, because I am obliged to answer you, you have considered that the way the Assembly has defined itself, which is by a majority vote on a whole series of issues, essentially hurt dignity, not formally, but essentially, and in this way you did not seek injury, that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Is that so? (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: That's right. ) So there is no need for the Assembly to declare itself on the day of the vote. Also, for the sake of the public, I ask you, since I am not running away from being responsible for my job, in front of you all and in front of the public, as I have just responded to your quote, be kind, everyone is responsible for their work, and I do not allow the mutilation of people who do their job, since I have clearly found that the statement you have paraphrased or quoted is, I don't know, I don't know, I don't follow that kind of show, I guess, quote, I said, that kind of statement if someone has given it is typical fascist, because it's looking for a dictatorship instead of a parliamentary democracy; so it's only possible to be interpreted; I don't know who gave that statement, I don't need to defend the Assembly differently except that all those who seek to replace a national will with a dictatorship or an autocracies simply represent something we've already checked in history; I've asked you, also, because of a statement of connection with crime, and whether you are relating to my own. Please, since you started with - Mr. President, I also like the public to know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24650	Ladies and gentlemen, don't be, since you hear Mr. Markovic, so that someone doesn't think I'm scared or that I won't give up my words. Yes, I meant that criminals and those who report a profit of 5m euros and steal tens of millions of euros in air sales. Also, I think of many in the Serbian government and the ruling majority that criminals and thieves are the most difficult species, because they steal Serbian citizens, the country of Serbia, destroy it, disperse it in every way possible. Those are my words, and I am ready to answer those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24651	So, political words. It doesn't apply to people who don't even meet the conditions for paying taxes. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24652	This isn't the Rules of Procedure. This is a replica, since Mr. Vukic mentioned the SPS, so I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24653	Here you go, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24654	As for this subject Mr. Vukic spoke about, I understand that politics involves addressing the electoral body. For the sake of full truth, I would like to say the following thing: Serbia's Socialist Party voted in favour of every proposal by the Serbian Radical Party that has ever been in parliament. Please keep that in mind when you talk about the SPS. Also, the SPS welcomed the SRS's call to the Democratic Party of Serbia to form a government after the parliamentary elections. The SPS also accepted the DSS's call to make a government with our support so that the Democratic Party would not be in power. And it's no secret, we made that decision in January 2004 and today we believe that Serbia will have a better government in which there will be no Democratic Party than the one we support. Thanks to this support and our views, for these two years there has been no extradition to The Hague tribunal, our people have been released to defend themselves from freedom and we ask that Vojislav Seselj be released, and that our people who have been released to defend themselves from freedom are not coming back to trial in The Hague, but to be tried before domestic courts. And therefore, when we talk about these political bickerings, I didn't want to react even when Tomislav Nikolic said that some who are now in power or have been in power worse than Milosevic. It doesn't matter. I did not want to react when Toma Nikolic said in statements that Milosevic had betrayed Krajina, Kosovo, etc. Everyone has the right to their own political stance on certain people. We think that's not true and that's not true. In our political relations, I don't see the need for the SRS and the SPS, instead of looking for common denominators, to argue on small differences. Unless it's just about taking over, or kidnapping, or stealing, or any electoral body. As far as this is concerned, the SPS voted in favour of your proposal and we believe that this proposal should be on the agenda. 85 MPs voted for the proposal, 22 of which were from the SPS, so all of them, 100% of ours. Therefore, do not transfer us. Second, and look where your MPs were, why they didn't come to the vote. So much for that. We didn't vote for this agenda, as you know. We are against this agenda and we will be against the Rehabilitation Act, and the Amnesty Act, and as you know, it is no secret, we support the government of Vojislav Kostunica until we change that decision. This is no reason for us to break up on each other, when you know well that the alternative is to have Batic, Djelic, Sutanovac as Minister of Police again, etc. So, in any case, the SPS will, of course, vote for any SRS proposal or any other political party that is in line with national and state interests. I don't see any reason to bring the whole political debate down to who's bigger or smaller on the side of national interests or not. Of course, in politics, sometimes coalitions and political alliances are made not by what is most desired or loved, but by what sometimes in politics must be done in order for the government to work at all. And you know it well, because we and you are in power in many municipalities of Serbia along with some political parties sitting here on completely different political sides. It's a political life. Of course, we know what our political goal is, but to this political goal and to coalitions which, of course, may be the most acceptable for Serbian citizens, are not coming unless there is no political mathematics that this is real. Politics is sometimes not what is desired but what is real. Therefore, Serbia's citizens should today be grateful that some of the laws, which were passed in this assembly, are brought and thanks to the impact of the SAA, which is the Labour Act, the Pension Insurance Act, which is not in line with what the International Monetary Fund was looking for, etc. At our request, there is no extradition to the UN tribunal of The Hague at our request, and not to list any further. Therefore, I have not reported at all that I would be able to deal professionally with Aleksandra Vukic, but only because of this political fact that is generally known and there is no need for us to constantly and every time explain whether anyone supports or does not support the government. If we move away in April and May, of course, we'll put that issue back on the agenda. And you know well from your party that sometimes, when you made your political decisions, you didn't just make them, and sometimes you supported among other things and that someone else would not come to power, and you know it after 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24655	Thank you. This was a replica. I am working under the law and, of course, everyone will get the word, only to inform the MPs who will participate in the principle debate today, that today, under Article 85(4), we will only work until the completion of the principled search of the 1st point of the agenda - the draft law on preventing discrimination of persons with disabilities. So, everyone who will participate in the debate on this and the next law, we will only work today until the end of this agenda. Here you are, MP Vukic, a replica to mention your personal name.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24656	I didn't want to, nor was it my special intention, I told the truth to the citizens of Serbia, I told what they saw. So, if it hadn't been for the insertion of the cards, there wouldn't have been this agenda, there wouldn't have been this congregation majority. That's the truth. And now you can turn it one way or the other anyway. We are fighting for the votes of Serbian citizens all and no one will steal anyone's hope, not in the elections, nor do we think of it. We've never been involved in any theft, not in the election, not in any other thefts regarding the SRS. The SRS spoke of the Republika Srpska Krajina in its own time and we were once in the worst political conflict. Since Milosevic was in The Hague and has been representing Serbia's interests and defending Serbia in this way, we are not telling him anything anymore. And what his relationship was, I don't want to get involved. And to some people sitting in those benches. And I'm not going to tell you who he supported in the election and who he was with incomparably more frequent phone contact and in every other kind of contact. That's the kind of story I'm done with right now, but I just want to tell you one thing. You can't say - we've taken off the agenda one, two or three points. So if you could do that then, why haven't you removed these 15 points today, why isn't this point on the UN tribunal on the agenda, and if it's not disputed that you would vote for it in such a way? Well, that's because you didn't want to, of course, the rest of them, I don't count on them, I don't have anything special to say. What can I say to an Albian? It's like telling someone with a B-92, like Veran Matić to talk. Now the two of them need to talk about morality. Or this one with five million euros in profits and this one that's going to dissipate someone with a stick. Let's see his mother's son. He's very brave, he's here for two and a half minutes, and I'm going out the front door in 10 minutes, so let me see how he shows up, see what he does, with all the bodyguards. That's what I'm telling you, not just because we cooperated, because we know each other well, because we can tell each other that. What I have here to say to them, what shall I say to those who will not, in a minute of silence say - two minutes of shame. Listen, a minute of silence is a minute of shame on them, shame on them. If we'd done it here, we'd have been hanged by Terrazies, by each of them, and they'd say it's a top-notch democratic act. They're talking today about building a government that's going to put us in stadiums in camps. That's what their culturalists tell them, some Vlajcic, is that his name? They're saying we should be put on stadiums and shut down with wire. You want the people to go to the stadiums, you'll put more than 50 percent of the people in the camps! Unfortunately, that's how you support it. That you're alone with one, so let's tell you that we don't like that and that. Every opposition doesn't like the government. We will support your proposal for the shift of Vuk Draskovic, but you chose Vuk Draskovic, although we told you not to choose him. Now the DS will back him up. Because that chain of circuits has no end, a true circulatory viciosus is making a vicious circle, because the worst enemies of Serbia will remain in power at one point because of this, in the other because of that, and only the people will live worse and worse. (President: Time. What a time. I'll finish. I don't know if you noticed, we're not worried at all. What do I care what the unfortunate Veran Matic says today, as he avoids talking about how they stole that television house, how they gained huge capital from social and state property, and then resold Sorosa, etc. This will be done by the competent state authorities, the Ministry of State and all other government services that establish who the thief is and where thieves, how and how to end one day, those or them, I don't know which. Guys, somebody's got to say a lot more than that. He can't do 15 points in one spot. You can't throw out every proposal just because it's an SRS proposal, because it's proposed by the opposition, because they see citizens as to what their relationship is. Look, there are 60 MPs here right now, and all the other MPs together are not 25 in the O.R. They waited to vote it in those 30 seconds, as long as it took to be 126-127, tense... (President: Please, no throwing.) Mr. Wolfie, please finish. Don't beg me, you heard what this lead ballooner started throwing out of there. So you ended it in 30 seconds -- 127, they went to lunch, they went to the bar, I don't know where. What's that got to do with anything more important today? Let's take care of it. He can't sit 70 people from the SRS without everyone else being 30. It's not normal for that to happen. (President: Six minutes must be twice as many as three...) Mr. Markovic, I know you find it interesting and I know you're listening to something smart, so I'm counting on it to be no problem at all. (President: I find it interesting, but now you're done. I've been through a lot of interesting things. It was only now to come most interesting. Mr. Markovic, you reacted well at some point today. It's a good thing that you've rated Saprano Boris Tadic as a fascist and his statement as fascist. That's what we agree on. I invite you to continue, if you do not follow TV shows and read the newspaper, every time I go out and tell you what Boris Tadic or Boris Tadic's satellites are, what nonsense they said, so that you can react immediately, because it is good to react. Thank you for that, Mr. Markovic. I can't thank you for what you've done that what had to be on the agenda today is not on the agenda. Do not interfere with the mind of another thing, Mr Markovic, which is that the state Duma of Russia has made a decision condemning The Hague tribunal after the murder of Slobodan Milosevic and many other Serbs. Quiet, Albianic. (President: Mr. Wolf, this is a matter of courtesy. In the ninth, you keep me informed... ) I call on you to pay attention to the fact that the Russian parliament has made a decision condemning the murder of Milosevic and other Serbs in The Hague. The lives of Serbian and Serbian citizens cannot be more important to the parliament of Russia than to the parliament of Serbia. Unfortunately, you showed it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24657	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. There's no need to keep me informed, because I'm a well-informed man. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I always ask the MPs to decide what MPs must decide. As anyone voted, you can check the document. That is why I warn you not to provide incorrect information, just as I ask you not to comment on what I have concluded based on your presentation and does not in any way refer to the institutions of the system. I'm just talking about facts. Here you go, Mr. Dacic. I hope you stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24658	I don't mind Mr. Wolfie and I talking all day. Of course, the SPS has supported Vojislav Kostunica since January 2004 and publicly. We've made a decision and we do it in public, unlike some who want it or do it secretly. As for why we did it, I don't know if you're really contesting the right of every messenger to speak, whoever wants to break out, I don't mind plowing with 80 MPs. I mean, so that we don't come to power the ones we characterise today as those who want to burn down the congregation, and the ones who set fire to the congregation, and those who take some sticks, which will always come back on their heads, we just need to avoid this kind of controversy and this kind of behavior. We can talk all you want and kidnap each other's electoral body, but we need a third. That third one was needed, or the other one, to you. It is always necessary in political alliances to make a coalition after the elections or before the elections. I don't want to compromise now, abuse the situation and say that the SRS gave the quorum to choose the Commission for Papers from the value of G17 plus. That's true, look at the stenogram and the records. The SPS deputies pulled out the cards because we were dissatisfied with the commission's composition. You left your cards and voted against it, but the commission led by G17 plus was elected. I'm not saying and I'm not going to tell you that you support it. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica, personally. He can't rephrase himself. Well, you and I can personally, since we're friends, we can take it any time you want. This is where we run the politics. What's an insult? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] We're not friends? Gentlemen, we were together, and you're there with the SPS. (Goran Cvetanović, from the place: I am not "you", I am "you". Since we're friends, we're on "you."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24659	Please, don't argue with the MPs from the pay phone. Also, don't disturb the MP. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24660	I think the SRS picked the wrong target. I don't mind, but we never told you it was your fault because in 2000 Milosevic lost his election because you didn't want to make a list with us. We never told you that you were the first to declare it, because Ceda Jovanovic was at your election headquarters, that we lost on September 24th, etc. Why would we do that? You're not our political opponents. We seem to be. We're bigger opponents to you than what he wants to force you with some stick from Serbia's political scene. Therefore, so as not to be this Krstic, who will drive you all along with the stick, so that Goran Svilanovic would not be Vladan Batic, so as not to be Djelic, so as not to be Sutanovac, the SPS supported Vojislav Kostunica. What is the difference between Vojislav Kostunica and all of them, we have an agreement with the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica. Who he's making coalitions with, it's just impossible. After all, look at the municipalities with whom you're all in the coalition. It does, Goco, because there's a connection in Zemun. I guess all those thieves are the same from top to bottom. It's not possible that there are thieves at the top now, and down at the local level there are some honest people, etc. So, if that's the case, then everywhere, we break up those coalitions and if you think the SPS is your political opponent, then we break up those coalitions everywhere. I don't mind. I don't think that's true, and I think we should all watch out for a statement that has no political return, because whatever we think of each other, I don't believe that you have any closer than we do, or we do on the political scene of Serbia. I think it's completely wrong to direct a debate in this direction, but if you want, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24661	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, I assume by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24662	Since mine was a replica, I'm guessing this was according to the Rules of Procedure, and now I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24663	You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24664	I've heard everything that the Democratic Party otherwise respects the SRS and this is what comes out and says exactly Sutanovac from A to S. We, when we tell them - you voted for 80% of the law, and the SPS for 100% of the law or 99%, comes out Sutanovac and says - I wouldn't tell you, but I'm not telling you, but here I'm not going to tell you that you gave your quorum to the Securities Commission. If we voted for the Securities Commission, if we voted for 50 of these, you are for 5,000 of them, you support Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister, you chose Vuk Draskovic as foreign minister. Thanks to you, they all rule, not thanks to us. I don't want to tell you about other things I could tell you about, which would make your head hurt. I'll keep quiet about it, I won't even mention it the wrong way, so let me say I won't, because I won't talk about it, because that's what we're different about. You were no different from what the Shutanite used to say. We will not support them in anything because there is no difference between Djelic and Dinkic, from the same father and mother, there is no difference between us and them. That's what we're different about. We differ in the fact that for us Vuk Draskovic is no better than the same Gilas, Krstic or I don't know who, Svilanovic. Did anyone from the SRS pick him? It's not. Have we ever supported it? We didn't. Did you choose him? Yes, gentlemen, and there is no great philosophy, the story is over. You are not my main target, I said that the citizens of Serbia know that voting against is not always a vote against, but a quorum and nothing more. When it came to The Hague, Slobodan Milosevic, everyone else, and, of course, ballooning points and all the others they put together, 15 in one. As for whoever comes to power, I don't rule out the possibility of any future co-operation. We belong to political parties that differ, have their own programs, their constituents and fight for the electoral body. Such a possibility no one in politics will ever rule out. I would almost be sure that with those who participated in the destruction of Serbia, Serbia's disintegration cannot work together, but I have one thing to tell you, where did you get information to create Sutanovac, Gilas, this or that in some elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24665	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24666	Don't beg me. You didn't tell me the time until the sixth minute, and you're telling me at 3.20.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24667	A little courtesy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24668	I'm absolutely decent and I didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24669	Be kind, you spoke nine minutes ago when you had a replica and I think it's okay to be a tolerance and allow it. This is the fourth line in a row. I'm warning you to finish after three minutes. Now it's four minutes, be kind and finish your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24670	You didn't tell me what was rude about what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24671	It's rude to state that I've taken up your time before. I didn't interrupt you in six or seven minutes. Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24672	I told you not to interrupt someone for the sixth minute, and you interrupted me at 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24673	That's what I'm telling you, today is the day I've tolerated most of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24674	So there's one thing. It's really different from Natasa Micic, and whatever I'm angry, sneezed, I still can't put a sign of equality, they're not the same. As for these future choices, which everyone is talking about and who will come to power, they are, until that moment I say, I can't tell you anything, your political interest, you think it's good for your party, that it's good for Serbia. It's okay to explain from your angle, but it's not from ours. Those people were sitting, they didn't want to get up when your president was killed. They were sitting here, and these guys came out and said he was a criminal, who was a minister thanks to your voices. Another thing about the election is that neither Ceda, Batic, Beba, Sutanovac, or Djilas, will beat the SRS and Serbian citizens. I don't mind, you keep doing your job, maybe we'll need one, maybe two, maybe three years, maybe we'll never get to power, and maybe we'll come alone. That's what the citizens will decide. I remind the citizens of Serbia and all of you in the National Assembly, false analysts said the SRS couldn't get to 15%, so they said when we got to 16% we couldn't get to 20%, and then they said we couldn't ever get to 25%, so they said the maximum in the election was 27.8%, which we got from this 82 term, and the two of us were kidnapped. They said we'd never have it again, we'd start falling, we'd get a European perspective, I don't know what's coming to us. Now it's here, we're past 30. Then they said there's no way. Now, according to their latest research, 38zarez something. Now they say you can't do 40. Looks like he's going to be 40 soon. I don't know how much they're going to say they can't, and citizens are going to come closer and closer to the SRS, just because they're also fighting Boris Tadic, and against these in the Serbian government, and that's the best principle, and that's what Serbian citizens want to see, fight corruption and crime and fight for change.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24675	The National Assembly will continue to be attended on the basis of elections, not on the basis of research, as the meetings of the National Assembly will be held in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dacic, you've reached out, Mrs. Pop-Lazic called, it's 14 hours and 20 minutes, please just three minutes, I won't tolerate any longer, and then we're giving a break of an hour that is necessary, and then we'll continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24676	I won't take a minute of my time. I want to put an end to these polemics. I don't think there's any need for us to go up against each other, instead of trying never to come to power by someone else, who would do something that is to the harm of Serbia, and I have to agree with Mr. Vukic, who just said that Mr. Markovic is not the same as Natasa Micic. That was one of the reasons why we supported Vojislav Kostunica. On the other hand, politics is a miracle. I would remind you that at the same time as Vuk Draskovic was the vice-president of the federal government, Vojislav Seselj was vice-president of the Republic government, at the time of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic. You didn't choose him, but we all participated in one of those authorities together. So, there's no need for each other now, you're an opposition, we're a party that supports Vojislav Kostunica, not because we think it's ideal, but because Serbia didn't have another solution. When she's got it and whether or not she's gonna have it, it's a political decision who's gonna make coalitions with who. Of course, we never praised anyone from the G17 party or the SPO. On the contrary, we are trying to deal with some of the obligations that we have in agreement with Vojislav Kostunica, and what is not acceptable to us will never be accepted, nor will we vote for it. I say once again, if Serbia is in front of a dilemma, whether Kostunica or DS, when they can't already radicals and SPS, or radicals and DSS to build a government, we will always support that alternative, Kostunica. I think we were right. As long as it takes, it's a matter of political assessment of every political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24677	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Thank you for understanding. After the break, the first word will be given by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. At the same time, I hope that pointing out the difference between Ms. Micic and I is not to the harm of Mrs. Micic, because that would be offensive. Thank you. Break till 3:00.23. At the beginning of the break, the first word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. [[After break – 15.30.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue after the break of the afternoon work. As we said at the end of the day's work, before we move to the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities, the word is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24679	Dear fellow MPs, I went out for a pay phone to advertise Article 104 - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, for I think that not only do we insult the dignity of the National Assembly, but we insult the dignity of this people, therefore, which has given us, in our hands, to take care of him and his interests and to transfer here to Parliament what that people think. I am convinced that most of the Serbian people want to find today's resolution on the agenda of this session, which is a proposal from the SRS on human rights violations in The Hague, to discuss it, to determine it, but unfortunately the parliamentary majority does not reflect the will of the people, and that is already enough reason to really think about the elections. It is symptomatic, and it is unserious that other countries declare, make their decisions, their courts, speak publicly about what is The Hague, what is happening in The Hague, that it was killed, not just one, but six people, that no one there is certain anymore, that members of the Russian Dume make such a decision, that they agree within two hours and make a decision, come out on the street and call the people, and they talk about it and read about what others say about it, so other smart people in this world. All free-loving people have the same opinion, as we have suggested in this resolution, and if you would like me to convey the impressions I have made from Belarus, as a guest of the Belarusian Dume, where I have had the opportunity to speak to the representatives of the Lower House and the Senate, who are also ready to think seriously and make a decision on this matter. And at a press conference that followed the presidential election, the next day, President Lukashenko made it clear there, in front of two thousand people, all the observers, all the Duma members, what is The Hague, what is the court, what is happening in The Hague, that there was the murder of one former president, one convict, one suspect for some alleged crimes, and we hesitate to make such a decision. I claim that there are countless countries in this world who are willing to determine themselves on this matter, and we do not want to determine ourselves on this matter. I feel miserable and miserable to participate in this kind of thinking, which I do not have enough power, not just me, but the SRS as a parliamentary club in this House, to convince you that it is necessary, not just for the sake of those who are in The Hague right now, but for the sake of the reputation of this country in the world. If we ask others to look the truth into our eyes, to help us in this whole difficult political situation, in which we have found ourselves not only ourselves, but also many other countries, who are willing to cooperate on these issues, then we are a country no longer respected and no one will respect. In this House this morning, therefore, it happened that the parliamentary majority does not think that this should be discussed, that this topic should not be determined, and that the Serbian people think it is a subject which and that we should discuss and why we should make a decision. May it serve you honor, but for the record, the citizens of Serbia can't forgive you for that and they won't forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24680	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. You certainly don't ask for an explanation, if I understand correctly, or an explanation? Thank you. ) We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with INVALIDITY You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party - one hour 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, MPs for European Serbia - six minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs, three independent MPs - five minutes under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the mandated representatives for this item of the agenda are in front of the SRS parliamentary group Miroslav Nedeljkovic, and in front of the SPS, MP Zivodarka Dacin. Does the proposing representative, Slobodan Lalovic, the minister of labour, employment and social policy, want a word? Yeah. ) Once again, I remind everyone who did not pay attention to this information, today we will work until the end of this agenda. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24681	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I am pleased to present to you the basic solutions of the bill, which is essentially new to our legal system. The law belongs to a number of anti-discrimination laws that will also be present in this assembly in the coming period. At the same time, it is part of a wider project of activities that this society and this state should take not only in the protection of persons with disabilities, but, above all, in their inclusion in normal social life. Therefore, this law will be very soon followed by another law, which is a law on employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, and should be seen together as one type of overall. This law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities, which we are going to talk about here today, is very often said to be the issue of anti-discrimination laws, among other things, of achieving certain standards in line with the already existing standards within the European Union. However, I would point to the fact that the adoption of such a law stands as a obligation and according to our legal acts. In the first place, I would point out to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which it is clearly defined that the Republic of Serbia, among other things, is regulating and providing for disability protection. In addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which has also been adopted, also defines that any direct or indirect discrimination on any basis is prohibited, and besides that as a result of mental or physical disability. So, these two, I would say, a key legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, direct this assembly to adopt this law. However, I would point out another very important thing, which is that in Serbian society, there are estimated 10% of the population belonging to a group of those who have certain forms of mental or physical disability in Serbia. Here we are also talking about a group of our population, it's somewhere between 700 and 800,000 people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who need to be helped to live with dignity, and more dignity will live, above all, if we achieve two things: it is one thing to prevent any form of direct or indirect discrimination, and another, which is equally important and an integral part of it, to ensure their inclusion in the world of work and society. In fact, we need to go one big way, and above all in our heads, from being ashamed of being disabled, and from having some mental or physical disability is something to feel the shame of those who have such a thing. At the same time, that society doesn't push this very large group away, doesn't marginalize, doesn't take away. It's just that it doesn't make them invisible and that the whole relationship with them is the way we give certain social benefits and things like that, and we're actually looking to get it away from ourselves. Just to get out of the focus of society and get the whole problem out of the public. So, we are just about to get a job, and the adoption of this law and its adoption, and I believe that this assembly will adopt it, is just the first step in the activities that we need to take as a society in general to change, first of all, the awareness of this problem, in order to change our attitude towards this problem in our heads. The best laws we can bring here can remain a dead letter on paper unless there's actually a social awareness that it's something that we really need to do, that it's something that's desirable to do. I think it's a good thing that Serbia will now be the first country, practically, in this region to pass such a law. I think it is good that Serbia, apart from being assessed as a leader in reforms last year, should also be a leader in humanism, I think it is very important, because any economic successes and results, without being followed by an increase in humanism, over time, lose their meaning and essentially become counterproductive. That is why I think it is good that Serbia is the first country in the region to take a clear view of this problem by adopting this law. I must say, for the first time in two years, a special sector has been formed within this government, within my ministry, which deals precisely with the position and protection of persons with disabilities. The very fact is that we are paying particular attention to this issue and in some way the law that is before you today and the laws that will be before you tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are essentially the result of this two-year activity within this ministry and this government to improve the situation of persons with disabilities in Serbia. In addition, at the moment it is also a strategy to define activities in the next period when it comes to the position of persons with disabilities. So there are essentially two acts. One is this law that we're going to talk about today and another is the strategy that we're working on and which should also lead to a series of activities that change the relationship between society, first of all, towards this, and thus to the change in the position of the persons we're talking about. Also, we all need to bear in mind together that the UN General Assembly adopted standard UN rules in 1993 to equalise the opportunities of people with disabilities. In early 1995, the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed the UN standard rules. At this point in the world there is a special activity in the drafting of a UN Convention on the Promotion and Protection of the Rights and Dignity of Persons with Disabilities. This UN activity began in 2001 on a proposal by Mexico and since then, and here for five years, it takes intensive work to adopt this convention, which, when adopted, should be the basis of a new approach throughout the world on this issue. I must say and express my personal satisfaction that, in working on this convention, the UN's ad-hok committee has been constantly present as representatives of our country since 2003, they have been active. Seven sessions were held in this regard and all these meetings were attended by our representatives. This very large activity of our work on this Convention has led to one recognition that in March, Belgrade hosted a regional constitutional meeting in the framework of the UN in Belgrade, with regard to this topic. It was a kind of recognition that Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro were doing during this period. This law regulates, above all, the prohibition of discrimination based on disability, the specific cases of discrimination against persons with disabilities, the protection of persons exposed to discrimination and the measures taken to achieve equality and social inclusion of persons with disabilities. In fact, all we're doing in this law and in the one that's about to be here is one effort to get to the point where people with disabilities in Serbia get into a situation that they can and education and work, and if we do, they're going to have a man's life. All we're doing is actually doing it. The principles on which this law is based are the prohibition of discrimination, respect for human rights and dignity, the involvement of persons with disabilities in all areas of social life on an equal footing, the involvement of persons with disabilities in all the processes in which they decide on their rights. So the point, by the way, is that those who are concerned are wondering about how it should be. So what we've been doing these two years as a ministry is, to the greatest extent, to include them in everything we do, because who we're going to ask rather than them about what we have to do to make them feel better. I think it's one very important thing. In determining the concept of discrimination and discriminatory treatment, it is used in the definition of international documents and comparative law. What I also think is important here to stress that the law defines the form of discrimination, three forms, means direct discrimination, indirect discrimination and violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations. Otherwise, in 2006, as far as this ministry, this government and this state are concerned, there will be a year of equal odds, so we have defined it, so all year long we will actually work on promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. The law also defined difficult forms of discrimination. These difficult forms of discrimination include causing and encouraging inequality and intolerance towards people with disabilities. And secondly, propaganda or deliberate discrimination by public authorities in procedures before those authorities, through public messages, in political life, in the provision of public services, in the field of labour relations, education, culture and in other activities. Of course, the law also defines the ban on printing and highlighting discriminatory messages and symbols. The third part of the law defines specific cases of discrimination. As such, discrimination has been defined, firstly, in the proceedings before the public authorities, because if we have to do anything, it is to discriminatoryly end this relationship where it is most visible, in the public authorities' bodies. How can we tell others not to behave in such a way if there are forms of discrimination in the Government or in the Assembly or in such institutions? Then we're completely inconclusive, totally unworthy if we do something like that. That is why the prohibition of this discrimination in proceedings before public authorities is first highlighted. Second, the ban on discrimination regarding associations. Third, discrimination regarding the provision of services and use of facilities and surfaces. I would mention one thing here, soon there will be one law in this assembly that regulates other matter entirely, but we have agreed to enter there also one provision or more provisions that will make Serbia accessible in the coming period for people with disabilities. It is a law on construction and construction, which will be present here, and there we have introduced those provisions that should lead to a person with disabilities, for example, to use health care, that he can enter a health home at all, when he needs someone else to exercise his right, that he can enter that facility at all. So I think it's one very important thing. It is very important that when we say this, we eliminate discrimination about health services, which has various forms, from refusing to make a diagnosis to others. Then, I think it is also very important to eliminate discrimination about education and education. Unfortunately, there are cases where people with disabilities can't go through the educational process, and they're also further handicapped. I must say that in this period of two years besides that, we have managed to provide for people with disabilities, above all those with total loss of vision in Serbia, special technical assistance, which everyone in Serbia is getting, and by which they can practically, as far as possible, uninterrupted from learning and education. It's simply one of the most vital things to get them out of a kind of social marginalization, it's that they can be educated and educated. Then discrimination about employment and employment, and that's what I mentioned that this law follows this other law that will define that matter properly, I would say a kind of positive discrimination when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. And that first one that will also have to do, when we pass that law, is actually the government, is the state, that it shows everyone that she means it seriously, so in the field of employment and employment. Of course, there are other types of discrimination, special cases that are prohibited by this law, such as discrimination regarding transport and a number of other forms of discrimination. The fourth part of the law defines measures to promote the equality of persons with disabilities. There is a whole series of measures that in its application need time to actually lead to this equality. So we are at the beginning of the process and we want to encourage this process by this law, to come to the desired state of equality of persons with disabilities. In order to explain what I mean by that it's a process and a time, in addition to what we need to change in our heads, we need to do something concrete, for example, measures to create an accessible environment. That's what I mentioned earlier, the question of removing architectural barriers and all other obstacles. For example, the European Union has given itself a deadline for accessibility by 2010, the United States has given 15 years, for example, to create a situation in which the problem of an accessible environment will be solved. The strategy to improve the position of disabled people will now also define the period to which we should come to the desired state when it comes to the accessibility of the environment. In addition, the measures provided for by the law are measures to ensure equality in front of public authorities, measures to ensure access to information, and I think that is one very important thing. You could have noticed on many electronic media that there was that news tracking to certain gestures, so that people with disabilities could follow the news, in general, to follow the electronic media. Here in the law, in addition to that, we predict and will be the solution, and when it comes to public service, which we cannot see on RTS that the journal is being monitored. So this law will also make them mandatory, including RTS as a public service to actually allow access to information. It's one thing of fundamental human rights, access to information. In addition, a series of measures are envisaged to ensure equality in the field of education and education. First step towards the so-called. An inclusive part of education, so there's a series of measures planned because that's the other part of the story, if we don't create conditions for them that they can be educated, we can talk about whatever we want, they'll be disabled, socially marginalized, without being able to live as humans. In addition, measures are envisaged to ensure participation in the cultural, sports and religious lives of the community. I must say, last year I had the opportunity and pleasure to talk to our competitors at the Paralympic Games, where they achieved exceptional results, world results. These are, for example, people who have no extremes and win a gold medal in swimming, and for example, our media -- this Serbian public has in no way noticed or followed. So, I'm simply talking about how it just makes sense and needs to help absolutely these people in every way and this ministry usually helps this Paralympic movement, especially when it comes to Serbia. As I said, in 2006, there will be years of equal opportunities, and when it comes to the UN, that year will be 2007. So, one year before the UN, we're declaring the year of equal opportunities. Finally, the fifth part of this bill regulates the proceedings in a dispute of protection against discrimination over disability. When there's a violation, there's a violation of these bans, what is done and how is done. It provides for a certain procedure, which can initiate proceedings, lawsuits, provisional measures that the court may or should adopt. I think there is another legal solution important in the provisional measures - the court can provide a temporary measure until the execution is carried out. What matters here is that the court has been obliged to issue a provisional measure to decide within 48 hours of the motion being received in court. There's a need for this thing to be properly regulated. So, like I said, these are solutions in one law that is essentially new to our legal order. I think what I have presented is the reasons, given the importance of this law for between 700 and 800,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this assembly will support this bill and that Serbia will thus enter a circle of countries that are in one serious and responsible way dealing with the problems of this group of people who have been neglected and pushed to the margins for so long. I think the least they deserve is for us all to do everything we can to make them feel like equal members of our community.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24682	I ask if the word of the committees responsible - the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs - wants to hear it. No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Živodarka Dacin, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then MP Nedeljkovic, who first appeared, but gave the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24683	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, to be honest, I would say that this is one of the few times when the draft law on preventing discrimination on persons with disabilities, which I believe is one of the few times that we have no reason to dispute whether we should bring it in or not, given the problem it is dealing with. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support this law, because for us, it is something that is meant, and on the other hand, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the minister also spoke of, guarantees exactly the achievement and protection of all rights equal for all citizens. While I was reading this law, there was something that was extremely disturbing to me, which is explained, where it is said that this is one of the laws that needs to be brought into line with the international legislation of the EU countries and that it is one law that obliges us, given that the Republic of Serbia has ratified a series of conventions regarding the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and that this should be applied. Is it possible that even such things, most humanely, should be arranged under the influence of the side, that the state of Serbia remembers to propose such a law and that we discuss it? But if that's the case, if this is the moment, then let's make an effort and pass a law like this. In the very analysis of the law, there are too many general places for me, and more associations me to theoretical discipline that deals with defining rights, measures, etc., all that needs to be defined, and it's about people with disabilities. Why am I saying this? First, because the law does not contain criminal provisions, not because someone tends to, if this law is not applied, someone should be punished, but because I don't think a solution is the fifth part of the law that speaks of the possibility of a litigation. Why? Then we can only expect, when this law is passed, that, across Serbia, those 10 percent of people with disabilities, who are de facto in an unequal position compared to people without disabilities, to press charges, litigation procedures under the law that prescribes it. Is that a solution, then? Secondly, because it is said in the light of the law that the application of this law does not require additional financial resources. I wouldn't agree with that if this were really to be adopted as it says in the law, which I expect, and I'll explain later why. Third, I expected that this law would have some delayed fact of beginning operations. It seemed realistic to me to be related to 1 January 2006, but all right, it could have been September 1st, 2006 and from January 1st, 2007. Simply because I think this is a process, as the minister said, and this is just the beginning and it's something to solve in the coming years. It seems to me that we need to know everything we need to know if we really want to get into this story and help people with disabilities, and I don't doubt either one of us. Just for the sake of the file, I'll give you a few details. Let me quote Article 13 which speaks of discrimination regarding the provision of services and use of facilities and surfaces. Point 1) says, "Disdiscrimination based on disability is prohibited on the availability of services and access to facilities in public use and public areas". I will also quote point 3 that says: "Under the facilities in public use, within the meaning of this law, objects in the fields of education, health, social protection, culture, sport, tourism or facilities used to protect the environment, protection against natural disasters and the like." Later in the law, from Article 33 somewhere to Article 38, about who is responsible for implementing all the measures provided for in this law, this is not the only one, but this one. The greatest burden for implementing these measures will fall to local self-government. One part, when it comes to the education and health system, will be the burden of the province's administration, as well as the republican administrations. Why do I say that? After 2000, it was very, very interesting in the trend to help people with disabilities in the country in Serbia. It was mostly accompanied by a story by NGOs, NGOs and other international organisations. I come from the municipality of Kickind and there are some donor funds that have made one effort and adapted access to the local self-government building itself, which has allowed people with a certain kind of disability to come on their own and get the services that are provided there, which they need. Of course, I absolutely welcome that, but the question is how many municipalities in Serbia have done such a thing. Will local self-government and whether our municipalities are so financially powerful that they will be able to scan the entire municipality - what is the primary thing to do and invest, and that still costs? Thank God that we in the country of Serbia have municipalities that will probably, I'm sure, be able to finance it, but on the other hand, unfortunately, we know that we also have a large number of poor municipalities that in their budget local self-government have only so much resources that maybe regular ongoing maintenance is performed and that they eventually pay out the users that are in their home. What happens to these local self-governments when this law is passed, and then let's say someone doesn't because they don't want to, but because there's no available funding, they can't adapt everything we're talking about. It is true, we know that for this year local self-government has adopted the 2006 budget, and we know that there is a right to rebalance that budget, but we are all aware that we need to know on what basis this rebalancing would be done. On the other hand, if the municipality doesn't have enough resources, of course I expect the Republic of Serbia to really respect these measures that we all absolutely welcome, that it can finance those municipalities that really cannot handle on their own. That's the reason I said here that and how financial resources are needed, if we're going to implement this law the way it is, without talking about education institutions. It is true, now it is very affirmative and we are all for it and we believe that we will soon introduce inclusive education for everyone, i.e. equal availability of education and persons with different types of disability. And the question is, how many schools are willing to accept such persons, not just in changing our thinking and mental set, but really in all the possible adaptations that need to be made in schools, when it comes to primary education, when it comes to secondary education, and about colleges that I don't talk about. I think that if this is really how we talk, we have to accept the fact that these are all the reasons that I was saying why, among other things, it might be more logical to move a little bit when this law begins to apply, because all of us MPs, that's the basic alphabet, we know that this law begins to apply on the eighth day of adoption and publication in the Official Messenger. I thought that during this period, which is very easy to record and get all the information, exactly what is numbered is what needs to be invested in certain municipalities in order to actually begin to apply this law. Indeed, it comes from all this that it is necessary to bring the first national strategy, because I simply believe that the state must have priorities when people with disabilities are involved, of course, and I am glad that the minister said that this is exactly what it is doing, because in this way I simply feel that this should be a declarative support, and in fact that persons with disabilities are asked, when we pass this law, specifically what they get by passing one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24684	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24685	Yeah. Another part I would like to focus on, which is what the minister was talking about, which is exactly the 23rd article on hiring people with disabilities and a few members behind it, where I really want to believe that the state of Serbia will be able to get the strength and enable these people to really work. Because, believe me, like everyone else, they don't want to receive any social protection in such a way that the state shows its concern, but they want, in accordance with their own expertise and, of course, their own opportunities, to earn their own living. I personally expected that when the announcements were made to the media, until we MPs had received the bill, that simply this law would show concrete solutions, that these persons would be employed in these jobs, there and there, etc. I was close to thinking, and I believe that you will share with me this opinion that, let's say, if one job is applied to persons with and without disabilities, if they have the same expertise and the same opportunities that are needed for this job, that they should give priority to the person with disabilities, and that there would be no discrimination against the person without, because that other person and how else it can get to his job. Now it's asking, for me, the most important question, if there's a big problem in our country, it's a job problem. We know how many unemployed citizens are in Serbia, and I would really like to believe that this employment will soon be resolved for everyone, not just for people with disabilities, for them under number one, but of course those who are not. It's the only thing that can trigger a momentum and that we just all think a little differently about everything that's in Serbia waiting for us in the future, and of course I'm always and I want to be optimistic. Of course, this is just a few thesises that I wanted to support why I put out everything that seems to me to define more general places, but, of course, the MP group of SPS will support this law. I'm glad, because I just wanted to say and I expect it from the minister, because in his opening statement, he said that in fact there is a set of legal and sublegal acts that will probably open these issues that are most important to people with disabilities, that only in this way can we create persons with disabilities as equal members of this society, because they deserve it. I guess that's the goal of every human and civilized society, and our country Serbia is that for sure, I know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24686	The word is by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24687	Dear People's MPs, with regard to the presentation of Minister Lalovic, I was distracted by an extremely beautiful thought, which is that the leader in reforms should also be a leader in humanism, probably referring to the government he belongs to. He rightly thinks that the government of Mr. Kostunica is an economic government in the sense that it is trying to make changes in all spheres of life, but it is a question of where these reforms lead us. I don't think that change and priorities are positive, there are changes that lead to improvement, there are changes that aren't. To speak for the government, which has continued the neoliberal concept of reform, so that it can be humanistic in its orientation, I think it's contradictory. If a government works according to the concept and dictatorship of the IMF, if it introduces wild capitalism which practically introduces what is called social Darwinism, and at the same time thinks that this government will remain remembered for its humanistic orientation, I think it speaks of the beautiful desires and hopes of those involved in the project, but things are objectively different. Humanity isn't just someone's objective desire, it's what's caused some of our work. As for this law that has a really nice name, the law on preventing discrimination against people with disabilities, there's a lot to talk about. The first thing I'd say is that this text should least be called the law. When the law is read from the first to the last member, the irresistible impression is that it is a declaration or convention. What needs to be characterized by the law is the obligation, it's the specificity, it's some imperative norms, it's certain deadlines in which you have to perform something that's prescribed, it's penalties that are prescribed if you fail to do something or if something is done and it's not allowed, and none of it is here. It's a little embarrassing to criticize such a text, because it's full of some high moral principles and intentions, and it really shouldn't be criticised from that aspect, but from the point of view of what the law should be, it's completely out of line. Those MPs who have the habit of first reading the accompanying text of the law, which is an explanation, the reasons for the adoption of the explanations of certain members, will get the impression that this is the right, that is what we needed. However, when we take to read the text of the law ourselves, we inevitably become a little bit more disappointed after reading this text. Because there's really nothing concrete about it. This law brings absolutely nothing to anyone. He doesn't deny anyone, though, he doesn't commit anyone to anything but declarative. There is a huge gap between what is declared as the objective of this law and what the law will eventually be able to produce in practice. Sooner or later, the government had to come out with a text like this in front of this congregation. That is why it may not be so much to be criticised for, because it is one of the domestic tasks in order to bring us closer to the EU, so on that path, these things must be done, to bring in one of these texts that will not be binding on anyone, which will be forgotten when we move on to the next item of the agenda. It will also be forgotten by those of us who participate in the work of parliament. There's a lot of those laws we've passed over the last few years, and their fact in real life doesn't feel like it. That's not what I'm saying. The problem this law treats is irrelevant. Far be it from anyone to think that the SRS thinks we don't need a law on protection against discrimination against people with disabilities. It's necessary, but not like this. We know it's an extremely difficult position for people with disabilities. Enough to say that the position of the average person with disabilities is far more difficult than the average person of the country's citizen. If we know what the economic and social situation of the average citizen of Serbia is, you can imagine the position of a person with disabilities, which is much worse than that. What's the main problem with people with disabilities? Surely that they are unable to work and earn for their own existence to the extent that they are able to work. We know that one law is under way, the minister has confirmed it to us, which will bring some incentive measures for the employment of persons with disabilities, but until the government comes out with such a text we must criticise this government for doing nothing so far on this plan. When that text of law comes before this congregation, then we will be able to determine ourselves. There is also a little hypocrisy of the government, which comes out with this text of the law and at the same time comes out with the bill on amendments to the Law on Disabilities and Combat Protection. We just heard about why this law was withdrawn from the procedure. Not because the government has developed a conscience or a desire to correct the text, but because one of the parties from which the ruling majority is dependent requires it. What does this two-faced government consist of? On the one hand, it is passing this law that will declare something to do for disabled persons, something that does not cost the state anything, and on the other hand, and with the law that will come again today-to-morrow in the procedure has provided for a reduction in the money payments for disabled persons who already enjoy those rights. By some estimates, they will be denied about a quarter of their income so far. So on the one hand, we give them what they don't cost, what they don't ask for, what they won't mean anything to them, and from the other we take something from them that they live on. If we go to a concrete analysis of the law, if we ignore the introductory parts, where we define what discrimination is, the kind of discrimination, etc., there's one thing we have to say. Just because it is now defined in this law which is not allowed, which is discrimination, does not mean that, until this text came before us, all these actions were allowed. It is understood that this has never been allowed before. It was not allowed to place someone in an unequal position under all other laws. It's not allowed, it's not allowed, it's not allowed, I indirectly suggest, until now it's allowed, and now it's not, it's not, it puts us in an awkward position as a society, as a people. What kind of people are we that now requires the EU to bring a text like this to bring us a little more culture, to become civilized? The only thing we can accept is that all aspects, concrete examples of discrimination, are now taxed in one place, because there are some, you can't say, criminal provisions, but people who are considered to be discriminated in some cases, in particular, can now conduct litigation proceedings. (President Gordana Pop-Lazic: Mr. Nedeljkovic, do you use another ten minutes? Yes. So the acting judge now has some kind of code listed in the law on which he can rule that there was really discrimination. Here is an example, in Article 24 says – one of the types of discrimination is the determination of less earnings due to disability, independent of impact. It was not allowed until now under the Labour and Work Relations Act, either. Or, in Article 27, it says - discrimination would be a refusal to transport a passenger with disabilities; and so far it has not been allowed. So, the carrier was obliged to transport the person with disabilities. In Article 12, deny the right to choose and be elected. That's never been possible before. It is a constitutionally guaranteed right that every citizen can choose and be chosen. I say, now that everything is so listed here, it can be assumed that discrimination in Serbia has been a widespread phenomenon, and now we're going to get in the way of it. Especially chapter four of this law is interesting, which is part of the title – Measures to promote the equality of persons with disabilities. All those members from 32nd to 38th, if we read them, we're really going to come to a conclusion, which I said in the opening part, that this is a text that doesn't commit anyone to anything. Article 32, units of local self-government are required to encourage the establishment of support services for disabled persons, for these and those matters. Public authorities are obliged to take measures to ensure the equality of persons with disabilities in proceedings before those authorities. Is there any particularisation, whether it has been allowed so far by public authorities to treat people with disabilities differently. Local self-government units are required to take measures to ensure equal participation of persons with disabilities in the cultural, sports and religious lives of the community. So it could have written a lot more, this text could have been much more extensive, but it absolutely doesn't produce any real consequences. As for the fifth part, instead of being called - criminal provisions, it is called the Procedure in a dispute to protect against discrimination over disability. So, in violation of the provisions of this law, there are no sanctions imposed by the court or by the inspector. No, a person who considers her right to be injured has the right to conduct a litigation procedure, as if so far it has been prohibited, because every citizen of Serbia has the right to conduct a litigation procedure when he thinks he has a right to be denied. So, at the end of what can be said, the law doesn't have a binding character, that it's declarative, nothing costs, it's completely undefined, and if people with disabilities expect anything to change in their lives after the law comes into force, they're wrong. But we've submitted 12 amendments to this text, more to correct some technical and linguistic shortcomings, and we've tried, for example, in a few members to sort out some norms, to give certain time limits, to realize that this text cannot be significantly improved. And if people with disabilities expect to improve their economic and social position, they will have to wait for some other laws, but I doubt such proposals will come from this government, partly because this government may not have any serious intention of doing so, and perhaps because it will not have time for such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24688	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a national envoy Ivana Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24689	Dear colleagues, we all here present and the public following this meeting know what's on the agenda today. It's a bill to prevent discrimination on persons with disabilities, but somehow I'd call this story today anyway. I'd say today's agenda is respect for human and civil rights and, above all, humanity. I think every society shows its humanity the way it takes care of the poor, how it takes care of the children, and especially how it takes care of the disabled. This is not the first time this congregation has shown its humanity. I need to remind you of some laws we've already passed here. For example, when we passed amendments to the Social Protection Act, we increased social assistance, or material family security in many municipalities. The state of affairs was such that in some municipalities, the donations were for households with one member of 800 dinars, and there were 3,000 per member. We've evened it out, so in all of Serbia, the situation is the same. When we changed the Financial Support Act to families with children, we introduced one-time cash aid for the firstborn child, which has not been the case so far. As for the powerless, and that's where we've brought the changes, they'll only take effect in July of this year, where compensation for other people's care and help will increase. So these are some kind of cash donations where we've already shown our humanity, and this law doesn't talk about money donations, it's not the subject of this law. This law is about to correct a certain injustice and to show humanity in action. This law, and I hope that we will all vote in favour of this law, expresses our relationship with persons with disabilities and our willingness to oppose discrimination. Serbia has received such a law for the first time, and I think it is necessary, not only for those human reasons that I just spoke of, it is necessary because there is a basis for this in our Constitution, because the state community has adopted the Charter of Minority and Human Rights and Civil Liberties, where Article 3 prohibits discrimination based on physical disability. At this point, more than 40 countries in the world have already passed a law banning discrimination against persons with disabilities, and we have just heard from the minister and the fact is that we are the first in the region to bring it, which is currently talking about the humanity of Serbian citizens, and our willingness to be the first to bring it into our environment. What is also important to say, and it is about this law, that in Serbia about 10% of people with disabilities were in a situation to be discriminated against, directly or indirectly. Like, what was going on in practice? It happened that a boy who wants to enroll in high school, who meets all the conditions in terms of the required educational level and foreknowledge of enrolment in that high school, simply comes across a barrier, where a school doesn't accept it, because they say, we can't provide conditions for a child with wheelchairs to enter this building and take regular classes. On the other hand, we have different examples. The school I attended, let's say, had no money to build a concrete ramp, so the boy in the wheelchair could get in, but because of the great desire they had to do something good, they had to build a wooden ramp, they hired a school janitor, and a wooden board ramp was built, but it worked great, and that boy ended up in the same building in elementary school and then high school. I don't think there should be any exceptions anymore, but I don't think we should leave the case to anyone who's going to solve it and how anyone's going to behave. Cases like this should be sanctioned. We already have in some laws certain criminal provisions concerning the prohibition of discrimination. I have to mention the Labour Act that we adopted here and where we have a whole chapter that is currently dealing with a ban on discrimination, besides people with disabilities. There may be some other provisions missing. I hope that all of us together in some future period will see, unless there's enough of these provisions in other laws, that we might bring them back here. In any case, I think everyone must have equal access – and in all state, local self-government institutions, educational, health, sports – to all public areas. I can imagine how someone in a wheelchair felt, they can't cross the street, because it's just a barrier that he can't do that to a wheelchair. I don't think we're a bad people and that's what's going on with us. I think our citizens are very human and very good, and that discrimination is done by individuals, as in other countries. It is precisely the purpose of this text that those individuals who are prone to discrimination are sanctioned, perhaps doing so out of ignorance. This law will remind them now of all that, therefore, what discrimination is, perhaps they simply did not know what discrimination is. I think I've given a lot of reasons why the G17+ parliamentary group will vote for this bill. I hope everyone else joins, so I invite you to do the human act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24690	This was MP Ivana Kovacevic, MP for the G17 Plus parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go, colleague Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24691	The Honorable Chairman, who in such a democratic way leads this session, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister has no, he has better things to do. He came to say something smart, and then he went out. He listened to the smartest, i.e. He's gone now, whether he's at the bar or the bar, you don't know, but it doesn't matter. People's MPs listen there's no need. Call the minister and let him know he needs to come back. It is much nicer this replacement, but it is not a member of the government, it is not a question, a member of the government must respect the MPs and must respect the citizens of Serbia. That's the thing. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, another law that objectively means nothing. This could be presented as a declaration or statement by the National Assembly on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. It is something, but when you stop reading the papers, it's nothing until then. And if it hadn't been for these amendments, G17 plus, in the legal sense of the word, it wouldn't have been even formally the law. Like this, it's not good, but this has made that law even have that form. Otherwise, these are prescribed constitutional provisions in the most part. What does this have to do with something new or something that didn't exist in our legislation? Article 72, which is being called upon by the legislator himself, is the legislator of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so the legislator, contains these standards that must be protected. Invalid persons must be protected and have equal status for all citizens in our country. I don't understand what we're different about. If you want to talk about humanity, it seems to me that this humanity was once much more, in a period of 20, 15, 10 years than it is today. I don't think it has anything to do with regimes. I think the regimes have affected the change of people's minds, where they'll think only about their own buttocks, without other people's suffering and other people's misfortunes seeing for a living head and not being interested in anything and no one else's. We've come this far today. I'll remind you of earlier Star and Partizan games. We've had applause for the disabled, both of them, who enter the stadium, remember, they're usually the hardest disabled and those disabled people who are the hardest hit. And they experienced ovations and applause from all the stands. After that, someone banned it, and then someone didn't want to let people do it anymore, that they could watch football games from the track and enjoy their teams they were rooting for, and so on. Says the minister here, who seems to have better things to do, what will you, the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia are not very interested in, we are now going to bring in some new regulations to hire people with disabilities. What has the minister been waiting for so far? What about a million people who are healthy and jobless? I didn't see that trend or trend being made that the growing number of unemployed, or the increasing number of employees, were. On the contrary, the trend is the other way around. What are we making up here? What are these lies and parallels for little kids and that people think that someone's really going to give them a job right now? I have an example from an election campaign in Belgrade. We were invited by several associations of disabled persons, all candidates for mayors who were, and to come to make a statement about what they should do and where they're going to make so-called. The ramps for disabled people, as well as how they will help some other disabled persons, etc. At the time – good afternoon, Mr. Minister, I apologize for looking for you in the meantime and asking where you were – at that point everyone promised towers and cities. It has been promised that more than 200 ramps will be built for people with disabilities, and these are special crossings for wheelchairs and how people can reach certain institutions that are most important to them, especially hospitals, health homes, shops, cinemas and theatres, etc. How many ramps were built in Belgrade in the meantime? Five or ten? It doesn't cost anything. We could have made 1,000 of them and that these people really lived better. And how much is it to cost on one programme, that on a national television programme, instead of separating millions of euros for Tadic's largest tycoon, Gilas, or I don't know who himself, for making disabled people in the National Assembly by beating people's MPs, instead, could be made and taken by one or two people, who should be modestly paid, and who for people who don't hear that they're making a special program, as well as for all other persons, any damaged hearing, damaged vision, etc. Who was the problem? It was a problem, and that's why it was important to come up with this law that the minister would tell us about, it's based on the Charter of Human and Minority and Civil Rights and Freedoms. It is, why it wasn't like that now. Do you know of an example, except for one who's some kind of villain or someone who's not a normal man, so now he's making any discrimination against disabled people? I can understand that children for some reason can make mistakes sometimes because of lack of education and education, etc. Show me a grown-up and a normal face, so it's normal health, and that would do something like that or that in an adequate way someone wasn't acting. I know that we've lost a lot in this human sense, and I know that today, when older people get into trams and buses, usually someone won't get up, but I haven't seen a disabled person and someone can notice he's a disabled person, and they don't want to free him of a place or something like that, or they're so rare examples that I don't think you'd be able to generalize them like this, to generalize them and to represent them as the biggest problem in the country. Government officials say, we are leaders in reforms, and now we will be leaders in humanism. That's what those who have so humanely fired hundreds of thousands of people from their jobs who have so humanely dealt with their political opponents, and only have some funds. I don't know if you knew that, but now I'm going to let you know about something, and what I heard yesterday, I would have said sooner. Do you know that in all the municipalities in this country where DS has such power, I have now heard about the Old Town, I did not know about other municipalities, they give money to Serbian citizens in Zoran Djindjic's Fund. Serbia's citizens' money from the budget of these municipalities goes to the fund. What's it worth, you don't know, but you can't ask that, because you're about to be shown in the worst possible way right now. What's this about? He says they're carrying people's money for sacrifices, I don't know, Milosevic's regime. Here, I'm ready, if, even if a private man does, finally sets up a fund for victims of the Doss regime, I'm going to pay my entire salary in that fund. And I'm sure there will be a lot of those people who would like to help that fund because it's so poor and unhappy at the time of Doss's criminal reign and that hundreds of such funds couldn't cover even part of the accident you've made for the people. On the other hand, this law speaks of some concepts, and it's as if we've been given the concept of civil freedoms and rights in which conventions are discussed, consultation meetings today, so the minister says at one point -- this is our year of equal opportunities, as we in the government have called it. For whom, Mr. Minister, a year of equal odds? For who? For you in government years of equal odds or for all people? Either that's for your game or your ex-party or that game back then? For whom is it a year of equal odds? Who has equal chances in Serbia? Which one do you want to show me the tender, which auction are the same odds? Do you, in Popovac, when Zoran Djindjic says, "Don't, don't show up, like what, Mr. Nikolic, or he'll miss his hand, headless, he'll lose his head if he shows up in a tender in Popovac?" Then three or four who were equal odds, all three will now go to jail, four, who knows how many, and now equal chances. I'm looking at them for equal chances, but whatever you're doing, whether you're going to build reflectors somewhere, whether you're going to make cameras, whether you're going to make a tender for anything, whether you're going to tender for the streets that need to be reconstructed and worth 2-3 million, so it's going to be 7 million euros. Oh, well, when you steal, it's a crime to steal, and you steal it big, you put everything in trucks, not in pockets, but in shovels and trucks. And it looks like those trucks were stolen. You don't seem to have any other plan. Is that the year of equal odds, is that the year of equal chances to go and this anti-Serbian B-92 TV, the thief's acquired by course. But that, when democracy and the rule of law in this country win, the competent state authorities will examine what kind of thief marifettelucs they have come to, as far as they get the lease of a magnificent building belonging to the state of Serbia in New Belgrade. I'm surprised those records don't come out, and we'll see exactly how the payments flowed. We've got some data until six months ago, and we're gonna look for these new ones, so make sure we get them. So, they take the road with Democratic Party President Boris Tadic, who falsely represents that the president of Serbia, and his tycoons, and they all go so nicely, from the people's couples, organize buses for those journalists, who are supposed to show the people what's going on there, and go to the Shop, find some two poor families, there really are a lot of poor families, as there are in Belgrade and elsewhere, because since DOS came to big, they're very rich and they're either so-and-so or a lot of poor. And they say -- how you live with five, six, seven, ten thousand dinars, and your MP receives 20,000 euros for travel expenses. And next to them is the one who reported a profit of 5m euros, selling air in cans. Is that right? That's right. Was that your minister, Mr. Lalovich, on TV shows? Yes, it is. Is that a year of equal odds, which he's a lot of smart, so he's going to have 10 million euros in income, and we're all just too stupid to have anything. Right? And you're still gonna make us monkeys, so you're gonna talk about how honest he is with 10 million euros, and you're all thieves who don't have any of that. Oh, man, oh, man, is that a year of equal odds? I agree with what Mr. Peric said, everything is true, only that you convinced these others to draw the cards, not to vote today what those G17 plus wanted. The question arises - what are the legal consequences of the adoption of this law? Minister Lalovic will boast amendments to G17 plus and some sanctions will be imposed, some kind of punishment. There are acts for which you prescribe punishment, so we now have one problem in the legal sense, legal problem, technical problem. To us is secondary criminal law and greater than what we have in Criminal Law, and we recently passed it. You in every new law only foresee criminal sanctions and criminal responsibilities, in every new law. And now let me ask you what this has to do with any discrimination against associations, so where has she been? Where so far there has been discrimination regarding the provision of services and use of objects etc., except what the mayors of ownership will not work for them, but they do not work for these others either. They're just waiting for a combination to get in, if there's a pump over here, if there's any, if there's any pay there, if I give it to you at a price of five million euros, he's worth 15 million euros, give me three million in his pocket, you saved seven, did I calculate well? I don't feel as good as they do, but these simple numbers I can calculate, how much they take. And then it depends on whether the bag, whether the case, whether it needs what it needs, what it needs. Then you say what direct discrimination it is, what indirect discrimination it is, and then discrimination about marriage and family relations, and I don't know what kind. Guys, this is totally lame for me. Albian, don't harass people! So, I guess it's a thing of love, a thing of someone's desire to get married, and not if anyone has any problems or doesn't, whether someone's a disabled person or not, I just didn't understand it, but I guess the minister did. Mr. Minister, it's nice that you bring us these declarations and statements, you bring us a little better law on martial law, see how disabled people can improve their status, that they have more money, that they can feed their families, their children, their spouses, so that they can live better than they do today, and that they'll have a lot of nice because we write that they'll have a lot of nice, and no legal consequences that they don't produce, they won't have anything. If your intentions are good on this matter, then I'm sure you'll warn this Sutrap Boris Tadic, who said he would dip the pole in a biological substance, as he said, an unpleasant smell. Now let me let you know, and you think it's funny, and I thought it was funny at first, until I realized how dangerous a man was, and then I called him, and I said, "Here, I'll be out in a few minutes. And believe me, I went outside and I looked for this hero, with that stick wet in his biological substance, as he says, there was neither him nor Boris Tadic, nor their tycoons the greatest. But here's to inform you, Mr. Minister, for reasons of humanity towards the citizens of Serbia -- it prepares a people of such a stick, I don't know what kind of substance it's going to put on those poles, nor does it matter, but I've been informed. They're going to throw some out of here, not everything, but first they're going to start from this building, from what they would do with biological substances to work, to start humanity towards our people, not to kidnap, steal, with everything together with your government as much as possible, and that citizens are living worse and less.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24692	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic has the word, not pardon Milka Silajev, let the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24693	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is before us this human law, and I am convinced that there will be no dilemma about its adoption, that there will be no great debate, because it is such a law that needs our full solidarity. And, you know, when this law came to the agenda, I remembered a saying from a movie by Christie Brown, "My left foot," which he said -- if I could never really be like other people, then at least I'd be like myself, and I'd make the best of myself. You see, in every society in the world, in wars and without them, people with disabilities live. In the Balkans, where both the state and the state system and society are still consolidated, the community's human rights concerns and with the special needs of those people are still at an unsatisfactory level. The struggle for human rights of these people is part of the struggle for the overall improvement of society, as well as the achievement of general human rights. The creation of a social environment in which all human rights will be respected, as well as the rights of persons with disabilities and the application of UN standard rules on equating the possibility of persons with disabilities through providing psychosocial support to those with all kinds of disabilities and members of their families, are a condition for creating a democratic society in general. Such a society is obliged to provide people with disabilities with complete integration and the same rights as those with disabilities. War disasters, poverty, population migration have made the Balkans a decade back even more difficult conditions for the lives of this marginalised population. Destroyed countries and their systems have not taken sufficient care of the basic needs of these persons, which is one of the more difficult factors in their overall socio-economic situation. Ignorement, lack of attention, discrimination, prejudice of the rest of the population are just some of the problems that these people really face. The expansion and impact of European integration on the rest of the region has made public awareness and society concerns increase in most Balkan countries. Respect for human rights, which implies creating equal opportunities for persons with disabilities, dignity, participation, non-discrimination, right to compensation, are declared in all legislative regulations. They are also in line with international standards and conventions. Harmonisation of laws governing persons with disabilities, EU and European laws is being implemented in most countries. The most important issues of people with disabilities are education, employment, accessibility to the environment and access to information, opportunities for people with disabilities to be treated equally as all other citizens. Society is considered humane when its members show empathy and support people with social needs, such as persons with disabilities. About 10 percent of the world’s population or about 500 million people have some kind of disability, and about 25 percent of the people have a problem with their loved ones’ disability. One out of 10 Europeans has some kind of physical, sensory, or mental impairment, or 40 million, of which 50 percent are productive. With the global population growing, according to WHO data, the number of people with disabilities is constantly growing. Serbia is a country where neither healthy people, who have 100% physical capacity, have normal living conditions. Therefore, it is not difficult to conclude that the conditions of life for these people are far more difficult. In addition to having limited education opportunities, persons with disabilities have limited access to public facilities and institutions. State institutions are only somewhat adhered to by the law which requires them to build ramps that would allow access to persons with disabilities. It must be noted that most of them do not respect the law, so it is often the case that neither schools, buildings, libraries, colleges are available to persons with physical disabilities. On the other hand, there are shops, malls, residential buildings, which should also respect this law. Before the war, according to the law of that time, people with disabilities had the right to other people's help, to benefit from traffic, to benefit from the benefits of an unfettered work experience and many other privileges. After the war, the number of people with disabilities increased, thereby increasing the number of people in need of special care. Like people who have normal physical mobility and who have their own needs, desires, and desires, they also have faces with special needs. With only a little more respect for the law that we will bring and a little more respect for the persons who life has prevented from being physically fully active, much can be improved by the image of the life they have with disabilities. Like people who have normal physical mobility, who have their needs, desires and desires again, they also have persons with disabilities. The basic rights of persons with disabilities are the right to equality, the prohibition of discrimination, the right to work, the right to social security, the right to access adequate housing, food, education, cultural and public life. The frequent protests of organisations that gather people with special needs are the best evidence that these rights are not respected enough in Serbia and that a law is really needed. Although social protection reform has been implemented in Serbia in the last four years, it has not been specifically directed at any of the vulnerable groups. However, it significantly increased the amount of disability pension, as well as the amount of rights to other people's care and assistance, which Mrs Ivana Kovacevic spoke of. The establishment of regular funding for disabled associations and organisations has significantly improved the situation in institutions with about 5,000 persons with special needs. To address the problems faced by persons with special needs, health and social protection is essential, but also the issue of employment, education, respect for human rights, funding, tax relief, housing, the elimination of barriers, the development of awareness about the problems of this population. The future strategy, discussed by Mr. Minister, will need to clearly define the concept of a person with special needs, to distinguish the concept of disability, incompetence, disability, and the concept of the most difficult people with disabilities. Experts dealing with this social topic believe that better protection and improvement of the position of persons with special needs must be a significant part of the creation at local level, with full involvement of the NGO sector and the association of people with disabilities. I am convinced that this congregation has so much sensitivity that it will be unanimous in adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24694	The word has an MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24695	Dear fellow Members of the People, whenever we get a bill, I wonder what any of it gets. Since this law, which is just so unfortunately called, is dedicated to people with disabilities, I would like to hear from the minister specifically what they get. So they have all the rights already established by UN standard rules. These standard rules have become part of our country's internal order. Now we think that this one law can achieve what should be achieved by a comprehensive strategy, which would exactly owe individual ministries what they need to do in the context of which segments do. If you think that only 10 percent of people who are interested in this problem are looking at us today, you're wrong, and there's an even bigger problem with that than members of their families. So if there's 10 million of us, this interests at least four million people today. The problem isn't simple at all, but it's insolvent this way. They have all the rights, but here are the questions, since these health care professionals don't have the right to work, or they can't work, millions of people are unemployed, how are you going to get a private employer to take a job with a certain physical deficiency? You can't make him, because he can take whoever he wants. You have to stimulate him. So, you have to find a mechanism, like the Government, to stimulate an employer to hire such persons, if you want us to implement something that we all are for in principle, because they are particularly vulnerable persons, and it is best that social policy as regards such persons is managed in such a way that we give them the job in hand and that they can support themselves. On the one hand, we're saving it because you don't have to give them social aid, but you're directing it to the employer, and that's how you socialize it, and you're making it a man who can support himself. So that would require a truly comprehensive work and sociologists, and psychologists, and a variety of other scientists from many scientific disciplines, which would help you, as Government, to bring first strategy, not to run around like this with a law that really means nothing. The intention is good, but there's no result. Will anyone in this country be able to issue a solution to Bogdanovic and say, "You must have ramps at every intersection, you have a month to build ramps." I wish he could, but there's no such organ, no such inspection service. A man complains he can't cross the street, he can't make it to school, but for nothing, there's no one to force the one in charge. And here you're saying that units of local self-government are obliged to take action to ensure equal participation of persons with disabilities in the cultural, sports, religious life of the community. You know what happened at the reconstruction of the Holy Church in Zemun, an old historical monument, and during the reconstruction, the ramp for the disabled is set up. They come from the Department of Protection of Cultural Monuments and say it shouldn't stand there. They did something montage, when they see a disabled person entering a church, they set up a shelter, they set up a shelter, because the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments feels it's disturbing the appearance of that building. Secondly, the disabled will not even be equal in many rights. First in preschool. Do we have kindergartens that are designated for such children? We don't. We want to socialize them in terms of being together with kids who don't have any special needs? We can't. Ask the Minister of Education for elementary, secondary and higher education, he can't because they have some rules of conduct, they can't take responsibility and they don't have the basic conditions to notice such children. A hundred times after this pay phone, I asked if we in Serbia had a high school for such children. We don't. First, we need you, the Government of Serbia and the Minister of Education, to call under this law and give you a deadline when you will open such a school. I understand that this problem is mature to solve, long mature, but it really took several ministries to participate in the preparation of this law, and that would mean considerable financial resources. You wrote in this law that they don't need any funding, and as soon as there's no money, there's no music, that's clear. I'm not contesting you, but this is something that makes someone from the government come out of the government at a press conference and say, "We've become human society now," we've passed a law called law on preventing discrimination of persons with disabilities. What did we get? We're nothing. To make you happy that we in Zemun are building a high school for children with special needs, if that's what they're supposed to say, and those are the children who are mentally fully preserved, who have many, who are just unable, because they're in a wheelchair, to go to regular schools. As a small town municipality, we have understood this problem and found a way to build this school in accordance with all the standards, minimum technical conditions, so we will give it to the Serbian Government, just to ensure that those children have classes there according to programs that are like for all the other children. When I saw the title of the law and the agenda, I expected you to solve this problem in that way, but obviously it wasn't understood in the right way, and it would be best for the government to admit - this is something that we tried, which we thought was enough, but here for now, gather any society of people with disabilities and tell them what it is that this law is giving them, they're going to spit us out, you and us. That's not what they expect us to do. When we say that 10% is a person with a mental or physical disability, believe me, it's not the right information. It's not real because in every company, in every state institution, look at maybe even you in government, there are at least 10% of people who can't get disability pensions, even though they're only for disability pensions because they're no longer able to work because of the very severe diseases they've had. There's a lot more of them. And how many sick, sick, or already dying of a variety of pains, cancer and everything else, which is the result of this bombing, and what kind of children we're born with, that we don't talk to you about. We're a society that has to deal with this very seriously, and we don't have to do this on a shortcut or on our knees. Tell the rest of the government that the National Assembly is not prepared to deal with such an important problem for our society, for a society that has suffered the bombing, which suffers the consequences of this bombing, which can account for an increasing number of disability, and to leave it all to some local community, whether it puts a ramp somewhere or not, believe me, that's the least of the problems. A much bigger problem is helping, above all, a family who has a disabled person, that they can put him in kindergarten, that he can school him as long as he can go to school, and that he can become a doctor of science if he's mentally preserved, and there's no conditions for that. You know that such a school is the only school in Podgorica now, high school. Then don't talk any further, I won't talk about that problem at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24696	Replica? Are you personally mentioned? You can only get a replica if you are personally mentioned or can have an authorised representative of the parliamentary group in case the MP group is mentioned. I'm sorry, Mrs. Vojic, but the rules are clear. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24697	This law that is before us, about the alleged aid of people with disabilities, has nothing to do with the general rules of humanity. It is in a declarative sense, but these rules do not apply from the local community through local self-government, not to mention state institutions. If you, Mr. Markovic, were to visit, in your day off, after you introduced this practice on Saturday, you would invite people with disabilities to visit, like all other free citizens, the National Assembly, you would have a problem, which Mr. Vukic spoke of earlier, approaching and arriving in this building, and not just this one, in the government building, any institution. Because you know that in the Kragujevac I live in, unfortunately, there are a lot of disabled people and they have an association that is active and it works, and they only remember them before the election, when the campaign is, it's the manner of the letter mayor of Kragujevac, because he only comes here when you invite him to vote on the agenda and run away with his head regardless. And for everything else he promises, and that's what the Republic government does, that's what Bogdanovic does, they do everywhere where the "yellows" are in power or they have these supposed democratic coalitions, they lie and deceive all other citizens, and so on. Not only is it no expense, it's not just some big investment to make the necessary ramps for the disabled, but it's an over-need. We talked about it at meetings of the Committee on Trade and Tourism in the expansion of these hypermarkets and came to the conclusion that people in wheelchairs who are disabled do not have the same access and entry to these shops as other citizens who can walk normally. And not to mention the fact that this law is actually one declaration, which stemmed from a number of already positive legal regulations, and above all the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This minister, while still the minister, the minister, the minister without a party, call him whatever you want, the on-call spokesman for everyone, when Carla del Ponte comes, your esteemed guest, that villain, when you don't let the Slobodan Milosevic family be properly buried, you are always on duty "guilty", for all of you are making statements, defending the government, Tadic and you are a man for all time, for everything that needs to be reportedly burned in front of our public. It's not exactly like that, Minister, and that you're calling for 2007, and you said that the UN is going to declare it or have already declared it a year of equal opportunities. I must remind you that the UN Security Council, absolutely unauthorized from the beginning of 1993, founded an ad hoc tribunal, a quasi-sud in The Hague, with a clear intention to judge Serbs exclusively there, that they would be convicted of crimes they did not commit. Meanwhile, six Serbs lost their lives there, and for those out there nowhere in the world, no man who says to himself that he is supposed to be a humanist could justify such conditions. They are in such impossible conditions, such as our president, who has been there for the fourth year and who was due tomorrow to receive his legal advisers, Mr. Vukic and Krasic, and he has been refused, as well as many times earlier to visit his closest associate, friend and fellowman, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. What are your resolutions and UN declarations then? When Mr Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS parliamentary group in the Assembly of the State Community, and you can look at the globe, you must have atlas at home, Mr Lalovic, what it looks like on the map of the world, receive accredited ambassadors from 30 or 40 countries, or, as today, having a conversation with the Russian ambassador, it's nothing to you. And when someone from the EU comes to you with this kind of service declaration that you call the law, you say - it has to be put on the agenda urgently, because for God's sake it's going to be a year of equal rights for everyone. Serbian citizens, although their constitutionally guaranteed right, are not even. Neither disabled, far from that, those who have been given such an opportunity to rehabilitate themselves from such a disability situation to earn money for themselves and their family. How many more of these companies are in Serbia I don't know, but I will only mention the Kragujeva "Shumadi Des". There are around 130 employees, and these are people who have a certain disability, since the arrival of DOS into power, a company has been established to complete the semi-fabricated business, most of which are engaged in the literia, by certain product-classifying for the ruined Zastava car factory, so that they have no more work to do, but they are really people who, with a certain degree of disability, have trained themselves to do certain jobs perfectly as top masters. So, semi-final products to finish. What happened? In the past five years you have also been part of the government and in the previous DOS coalition, Mr. Lalovic, you are not such a found fit, unsullied, unpromised Slobodan Lalovic, so now you have been found by Kostunica and these two years ago. No matter what, we know you as an evil couple from those past stories. You've been the secretary of the Commission for reviewing corruption abuse, so when it's buried where it doesn't belong, you're the papers in the drawer and none of it. So, you're not human and you're not just, we've absorbed that a long time ago. As for this job and the fact that you as a minister and this government will allow people to find employment, here's an example of "Shumadi Des" Kragujevac, not only are they thrown into market conditions, but they can literally put a lock on and go home in a day's time. They were able to work, they had orders from other small and medium-sized enterprises, not only these flag cooperatives that I mentioned, because it prevents them from doing so, to successfully make and to earn, even though they have disability, the Republic Government and your laws. Then how can you deny me when such a drastic example exists today in Serbia? You know, we've been able to see a lot of things these days, and Mr. Vukic said a lot about it and these heroes across the street in the presidency building. But when he mentioned the departure of these associates of Tadic and himself as president of the DS and all those so-called National Bureau of Commerce, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and they saw it, in fact they saw it for the first time in their lives something like that on someone's feet. They saw the DS president come in shoes costing 650 euros and let's kick a little ball to show the people of Commerce that he's a direct man, as he's ready to communicate. I'm surprised he didn't get that stupidest thing he's said so far that Platini is one of the most famous and famous goalie. We can expect a lot of things. This whole click is lost, I don't know what else to call them, these musicians, it's one of the great experts for the media, this other one understands this, this third one in that one, and according to their favorite and Tadic's song, "The flames of dawn are waking me up from sleep," it's time to wake up from sleep, because you know if they've celebrated their roles in movies, I don't have anything against that movie, it's one of the successful moves of domestic cinematography, in movies like "The Strangler Against the Strangler" and so on, it's a turn to stop, and he and they, to strangle us and to choke this poor people. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny, but it is, Mr. Minister, because you said, you as Slobodan Lalovic two years ago here, and so was that unfortunate Vlahovic, the yellow man who didn't pass for vice president in his DS, that you would be in the process of restructuring the flag and factory of intended products to provide for the Kragujevčans, and they are somewhere around 1,800, a protection workshop. Where is something done? Is it done? It's not. It's not because you're on duty, not guilty, you're simply enjoying this role that the most terrible and most negative things in the cabinets of the Republic government are also placed with these speakers to citizens, workers, pensioners, and that's your role, probably suits you, and you know that has something to do with your general state and mental set. A man should be born to be like that, to place such laws, and to make so many people sick. It's just impossible, Mr. Lalovich, without a man smiling, to tell you all this without you taking it seriously. As far as these legal provisions are concerned, they do have only a declarative character, since Article 17 deals with discrimination regarding health services. Dr. Momchilov and Professor. The jury will talk more about it later, but I must tell you, if you are already talking about the disabled, that what the Republic Government is doing, and that Svetlana Vukajlovic, and Minister Tomica, and all the others leading from this group of G17 Serbian health. Since you already know that there are so many disabled people in Serbia, and unfortunately there are, when you pass a special law, so there is no discrimination that can't be treated in one of the most prestigious health institutions - on VMA. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that since 1 January of this year, the Republic Health Institute has not wanted to renew its contract with the VMA and in the event that, God forbid, the citizen and the disabled need help, which some other health institution in Serbia cannot provide, cannot go to the VMA, and is not to the leadership, nor to them there, but because you do not allow it, and Vukajlovićka, and Tomica, and this entire health mafia in Serbia, but must pay and go to achieve the health care he needs. All the things you wrote here, and your speech today more than the pale speech, you had brighter days, when you explained that you should arrest the young man and the others and that you should welcome the best you could to Carla del Ponte, then you speak in a much greater enthusiasm. The way you presented this law, which is only called the law, and in fact it's a kind of declaration, all of what it says and, above all, the intention to continue to play with the difficult fate of these people, all of Serbian citizens, will not serve you honor. Citizens will be put in an even more difficult position until you are no longer an MP or minister and you sit in that bench where you thus promote a law that in practice can't do any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24698	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, then the People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the bill on a rather large group of Serbians is being considered, and it refers specifically to persons with disabilities. According to this law, and according to the World Health Organization's assessment, about 10% of the population are actually persons with disabilities in Serbia. This requires the government's view to prevent possible discrimination against persons who can be classified in this category through the law. The SRS will try to amend this law somewhat and thus make it acceptable to those to whom it is intended, although it is a declarative nature, and above all to persons with disabilities, their members, legal guardians, disabled associations, and so on. The choice of appropriate terms is just one step in the process of equating persons with disabilities with other citizens. Lately, it has been noted that there is more and more talk and writing about the problems of people with disabilities. There are a lot of media contributions on this, therefore, about specialised institutions, on humanitarian aid, on care centres and assistance for disabled people, and so on. However, there are more and more negative examples, that many irregularities in the handling of disabled people are only now being revealed. Here, above all, is thought of institutions, and they have been seen mainly through forms of abuse, exploitation, abuse of means of use for disabled people and so on. There was even a devastating fact that many cases were known almost everyone, starting from janitor to director of the facility. Article 3 of Article 2 of this Act mentions a term - a hidden way. Excessive service towards a person with disabilities, full attention, will lead to this person’s feeling of discrimination, or in a hidden way, to the knowledge that it is different, which at the same time offends her. On the other hand, closing your eyes to someone's obvious disability can cause a sense of carelessness and misunderstanding for that person, but also for the observer. Imagine the situation, imagine some counter, people waiting and somewhere at the end of that line is a disabled face with crutches. What happens if an officer self-initiately reaches that person, introduces it across the line, whether the official is going to commit, in the position of Article 3, the person with disabilities, by definition, discrimination, even if positive, persons with disabilities. If he doesn't, he risks bringing back the epithet of the discriminator because he doesn't care about someone's disability. Article 6 refers to forms of discrimination. In addition to all of these, you could have added another point of discrimination and the way disability occurred. We have many examples of everyday life, such as disabled wars. Today, Natasa Kandić, Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo or someone else from the play of chronic anti-Serb liars can go out to U92 and tell the disabled that they got what they wanted, that they didn't have to defend the country, that they don't care that they lost their legs, arms, sight, mental and physical health. This isn't just about Natasha Kandic. Such a stream of the worst insults to war heroes has been going on right since 2000, since when the Assembly of Firefighters began to celebrate, while heroes and many others must not even be mentioned. Serbian citizens remember well that protest by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in downtown Belgrade. There were powerless old men and people in a wheelchair, with crutches, tortured women with children, and then Natasa Kandic walked in among them, and like a joke, she started slapping these unfortunate people. No one responded to all that. Shall we now share the disabled wars of 1991, 1992 and 1999, and make fun of one and take care of the others. Will the police who became disabled after the attack on the Cypriot terrorists in Bujanovac in 1999 and 2004, have different status, as some became disabled while Milosevic ruled, while others ruled Kostunica. When it comes to disabled war, they can be discriminated against in this kind of Serbia, and that's exactly what the law on combat protection, Mr. Minister, which you pulled ten days ago from the assembly procedure has shown. The avalanche of protests, primarily the disabled war, showed the public of Serbia what Serbia's grateful country for spilled blood, in the name of human freedom, gives them. So, Art. 13, 14, 15 and 16, the government tried to regulate the conditions for providing services and using facilities and surfaces. However, implementation of certain provisions of these members will be very difficult, but this is because there are certain reasons. So it's a huge material resource, new adaptations that require new projects, the inability to adapt approaches to buildings or institutions that were previously built and did not foresee such an option. How will someone responsible, for example the director of the Centre for Social Work, whose rooms for working on the fifth floor of a residential building without an elevator, adapt that institution to people with disabilities, how will they perform the need for adaptation in order for a disabled person to reach the desired official? That's the situation when it comes to homes of health, schools, institutions, but that's not what the promoter is interested in. For Article 13(5) explicitly states - refusal to perform a technical adaptation of the facility, and it is necessary to provide the service to the disabled user, will be considered a form of discrimination regarding the availability of services. Article 16(3) requires mandatory adaptation of the facility in order to fulfil this obligation and refers to the owner of the facility in public use. How much this is going to cost and how much it opens up the possibility of abuse remains to be seen. There will certainly be those who knowingly abuse this member of the law, as soon as they find someone who has not adapted their object in public use as ordered by Article 16(3). Worst of all, the Bill of Law does not say in any of the members what time-limit it is for meeting Article 16(3), which means that, within eight days, the owner of a public-use facility can sue any disabled person who thinks he is being discriminated against if the facility is not provided with access to a disabled person. In the section which speaks of discrimination through the fields of education and education, reference should be made to Article 19. If a minor appears as a discriminatory, it is not specified whether the Law on minors and sanctioning measures under that law are taken into account? If discriminatory behaviour is observed in a group of minors, can the school’s employees react in any way? Also, we can have a situation where people with disabilities are not accepted, but without any forms of discrimination, where this behavior cannot be sanctioned, but it offends people with disabilities and is denying them the possibility of belonging to a group of peers. This requires a wider action, which must also come from the Ministry of Education, from your ministry, but also from local self-government. Articles 32 and 33 refer to local self-government units. Such decisions already exist, but they are not applied or partially applied, since here is a very important material moment in which the municipality is located. Therefore, as much as there is available, it will also be able to fulfil the law of the envisaged obligation to create an accessible environment for people with disabilities. As for the part of the law governing the litigation procedure, Articles 40 and 42, it is important to know who is suing and who, whether the disabled associations, or their legal advocates, can press charges. It is also necessary to clarify the situation when a case of discrimination arises and against whom a lawsuit should be brought, whether against workers or institutions, or bodies. In each law enforcement, which is thought to be the initiation of the procedure, only disabled people are faced with the problem of the litigation of the courts, then there is an economic moment about filing a lawsuit, because the disabled are mostly not wealthy people, and all this costs to satisfy justice. By accepting the SRS amendment, you will remove the ambiguity which currently imposes such a bill on the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24700	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24701	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another law from that law package that we had to or which we're going to have to adopt in order to receive at least one centimetre of that institution that will decide to join the European Union. This is a law that could be in line with that seal protection law, and we're going to have to adopt it, regardless of what we have two seals in the Belgrade Zoo. This is another law that could be a gap along the side with that law on banning piracy on the open sea, even though not the Mediterranean, let alone the Adriatic Sea is not open. So this is a law that we must adopt, not this law, but a law with this name we had to adopt in order to accept Europe. What it means in this law is a few concepts and everything else in the end when I go through the law itself. However, I must return to what the MPs of the SRS said at first. The law here is only in the title, everything else is a resolution, a convention, something that can't be called by law. The 10% of people with disabilities in Serbia are not accurate, it is unrealistic. There are disabled wars from Serbia's territory, people with disabilities who later, being expelled by your friends from the Republic of Croatia and from the Bosnian Federation, have come to Serbia's territory, there are disabled workers who have become disabled in one way or another, whether because of chemicals used in the production process or because of the lack of hygiene-technical resources etc. There are disabled people whose disability is rooted, whose disability is a cancer that literally sounds and threatens to become an epidemic after the bombing by your friends, ladies and gentlemen the MPs of the ruling coalition. I know the woman who trained the disability committee to work, who died of cancer after 10 days. There's a lot of people with cancer at the beginning. Look at the hospitals, look at the institutions that are dealing with treatment and specializing in cancer treatment, the halls are full. Article 2 states that this law is based on the principles of the ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities. What about the ban on any discrimination against any other person? When I say discrimination, I mean that working discrimination where this government is right now, and by eliminating factories or by selling a bagatel factory, and after that, by firing huge columns of workers from those factories. What about discrimination against these people? Respect for human rights and dignity for people with disabilities. What about respect for human rights and the dignity of all people in Serbia. The involvement of persons with disabilities and in the sphere of social life on an equal basis, the involvement of persons with disabilities in all processes in which their rights and obligations of equal rights and obligations are decided. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in article 4, say, public authorities are obliged to provide people with disabilities with the enjoyment of rights and freedom without discrimination. Well, if not the public authorities are obliged to ensure that all persons, all citizens of Serbia enjoy rights and freedom without discrimination. Article 7: "A breach of the principle of equal rights and obligations exists: (1) if the disciplined person is exclusively or mainly for his disability, the rights and freedoms are unwarranted, or impose obligations which are not depriving or imposing on another person or group in the same or similar situation; (2) if the objective or consequence of the measures taken is unwarranted; (3) if there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objective to be achieved by these measures. In his day, that unnatural regime formed companies where people with a certain degree of disability could normally work. These companies were called DES. They baptized and named their own company, and there was a large company in Belgrade that mainly produced tin products, just called DES — a hearing defect. So the people whose hearing was damaged, and everything else preserved, were extraordinary masters. Under slightly more favourable conditions than others, they provided reproductive material and produced and sold, and these companies functioned extremely nicely. These companies don't work today. According to Article 8, they are not considered a violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations, nor discrimination against the provisions of laws, regulations, and decisions or specific measures taken to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, members of their families and associations of persons with disabilities, which provide specific support, necessary for the enjoyment and exercise of rights under the same conditions under which they are enjoyed and implemented by others. What prevented the minister from exercising these rights so far, without what he calls the law. Not just for the disabled, but for all the other citizens. Find me in these companies that are privatized by one owner, one employer who will hire disabled under these conditions. Find me, with this kind of competition in the labour market, where there are millions of people, precisely thanks to the many laws that you ministers have proposed to this assembly, and your indiscretion most adopted, by an employer who will accept to hire a disabled person and will not choose anyone from the market. A million people lost their bread thanks to you and your politics. Therefore, not only are disabled people at risk, all Serbian citizens are at risk. Let's move on, Article 17, a particularly difficult case of discrimination over disability is and any discrimination against persons with disabilities when providing health services, and you didn't remember to say that a disabled person, and a blood donor, and whoever, has to pay for the participation that your Tomica, your colleague sitting there in the government, has adopted, is 20 dinars. Those 20 dinars may not be a great expense, but it's a great humiliation. You in the government agree before you come here to propose laws. Article 29, particularly a difficult form of discrimination due to disability, represents harassment, insult, mutilation of disabled passengers during crew travel, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there were only a few buses in Belgrade that had that platform that disabled wheelchairs could get on a city bus. Almost no intercity transport bus has that platform that can get in disabled. So I'm wondering, since Vela lets two trains go the other day, from those he paid three and a half million euros and another million euros for repair, 25, 26 years old, where they steal at least 500 thousand euros per train, and it seems to me that eight bought them, when he already forced them into Shinvoz in Zrenjanin to completely reconstruct them, to paint them properly, which doesn't make that platform so the disabled can get on those trains. He released two trains to the King and confessed to breaking the law and stealing the money. I ask Minister Jocic if he will launch a criminal report, I ask Minister Stojkovic if the prosecution will do something about it, because Velija has openly confessed? All the nonsense to nonsense, and of course all the things that need to be done a little bit to help the disabled are loaded into the local self-government unit, so to the municipality, to the local community, to the possible city, but thank God the city and what it does to the fat bill. Bogdanovic and when you say goodbye to him count your fingers later. If you remember in the mayor's campaign when he openly told Vukic he didn't have only one apartment he lived in, then it turns out that Kolesar gave him an apartment in Tadeauša Kostuška, i.e. sold or donated to him anyway, and Kolesar made that apartment out of those couples he stole from the Popovac cement plant. Therefore, city municipalities, where it is not in the Democratic Party's power, receive so little funding that they can exclusively finance current business in municipalities and personal incomes, or salaries. And now, here's Dinkic's request to cut it a little bit. Therefore, this law, as well as the one that you have previously proposed, so they withdraw it, so no law proposed by this minister has brought any good to any citizen of Serbia, except perhaps a few who are in this, or in a yellow company, or in this shortened or extended DOS anyway. The SRS won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24702	The word has Tomislav Penezic. Here you go, Mr. Penezie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24703	Ladies and gentlemen, the fate of the person to whom this law applies is known only by God and they themselves. And as much as we or you are interested in their fate, you can tell by how many of you are here in the O.R. and how many debaters have reported to try to improve the position of disabled persons. I listened very carefully to all the speakers, and unfortunately we fit in a lot in the discussions. And the first thing I can say is this isn't some law. It looks like the law, an attempt to pass something that looks like the law, or better said to do a homework for the EU, and a homework can be done well and formally, just to do the job. The constitution is that, already mentioned by colleagues, resolved in Article 72(1), and it should not be discussed, but I listened carefully to Mr. Minister when he spoke, and he says - this is a new law, so I put it in brackets: inclusion in the social life of people with disabilities. Well, as it has been so far, as if this new government has now passed a new law, God has brought something new that will now raise this government to heaven in the people. No, it's a law that already existed. The second sentence said by the minister, unfortunately, is not for comparison. He says to change the relationship in his head, like something breaks Mashana's brain. Although I'm saying, it's not for comparison, but this looks exactly like that election campaign, when everyone's facing the poor, so they all go to the gypsy Mahals, and they go to those workers and they're looking for a voice everywhere. And when it's over then there's nothing, they forget them, the disabled suffer their suffering, no one to look at them, no one to hire them. Here, I'm telling you as an educational worker, I've always followed that rule, and I mean the most beautiful contribution, to advise students on how to treat those faces. The first thing I'm saying is that no writer has allowed himself to write about human flaws, or physical defects. He can write about greed, lies, thieving, sorry to look at you but somehow binds me, and so on about boasting, etc., but physical defects are not spoken of. And then if it happens that someone smiles, I send this student to listen to me and then I tell those who are believers -- thank God you're who you are, and you Darwinists thank nature. No one would want it to be the way I just sent it, say wet the sponge. And I mean the biggest contribution, much bigger than this law. Now, if it were to go in line, the law contains five parts. That's what the minister explained and I wouldn't repeat: there's nothing new here. I thought I was quoting something about education and health care, to see how much the cavity is, there's nothing new, that has to be accepted into school, it's perfectly normal, what's new. Once again, since the time is at an end, and there are more speakers, a final provision or as they call it, the sixth part, no excuse is that, but the fifth provision, the fifth part, the procedure for the protection dispute. I'm surprised, all the laws you've passed so far, which were financial, were very interesting to you, and you've found some criminal provisions everywhere. It punishes a natural person with so much, a legal face with so much, I don't know one price - with so much, closes the store, so much and so much. So what if she fell one price. And here he says, "You should, you must, you owe them," and nothing else. And what's that supposed to mean, seas, they owe? To whom they answer, what will they do? What if they don't fill out the items in this law? If you call it the law? Nothing. And punish those who trespass against this one, I will use one hard expression, poor people, people who are not guilty of their own destiny and people who need help. The greatest gift to this man is to understand him. Try to break what's in your heads, as the minister says, that'll be enough, and whoever hasn't broken so far, I don't think he'll ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24704	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24705	Dear Members of the People, colleagues and colleagues, we are already at the end of the debate on a new law that has been given before us to declare it, and it is called a law to prevent discrimination on persons with disabilities. As you have already heard in the opening statements of the leaders, and then other representatives of the other parliamentary groups, everyone has agreed on a few things and I think we should stress that now. This is a law that is very general, which does not look like a law, which looks like a resolution, which looks like a declaration, which is one of the gallamities of measure and desire that do not bind anyone, practically, to anything, which, in my opinion, I am free to say, even brings to a more difficult position disabled persons. We will all agree that the quality of a society today is measured to protect those vulnerabilities, sensitive categories. We also know what categories they are. They're kids, they're old people, they're disabled faces, and someone's gonna pick up pregnant women. Let's take that wide sticker, too. How do we treat pregnant women? We see that this government does not treat pregnant women as a category that deserves 100% compensation, but only 60 percent. Next, as we treat children, I won't talk again. Here, now he's trying in this society, which is a lot of discrimination on different grounds, to deal with the prevention of discrimination against disabled persons. There is discrimination against women in this society. Look at this composition of our parliament, look at the executive bodies, look at the judicial authorities, how many women are there, and you'll see immediately what happens to full discrimination or gender discrimination. In this society there is discrimination on a material basis. Watch how the judicial authorities treat the poor and see how they treat the tycoons. There is even discrimination on a national basis in this society. I'm free to say that and give you examples. In this privatisation society you have today that the capital of only certain Ibermensian countries and nations is desirable. In this society, Russian capital is not desirable. This society runs an anti-Semitic campaign against Jewish capital. That's what we read in the paper. This society has decided today to correct the injustice against the disabled. What do disabled faces feel? We all have them in our families. What are they looking for? They're only looking for two things, maybe three: to live with us, not beside us, with the exercise of human rights, not disability rights. They only ask for one more thing - that we treat them not with compassion but with respect for the human personality. When you get up on the bus with a disabled person, it's respect for his human personality, it's not compassion. You've tried to question this tract of yours with a failed, a mixture of laws, charters, resolutions, everything, even that, it can partly confuse. But someone said this law should deal with the humanitarian side of our relationship with these people. I'm not sure. The humanitarian and ethical sides need to deal with codes. There are codes of ethics and that's where it belongs. The law must have a standard and must have sanctions. He edits specific aspects of social life. What's wrong? He noticed a predecessor, I think from the SPS parliamentary group, that this law lacks a foundation, so that it could be a real law. What's that foundation? Status. Do you know what the situation is? You only know the number, that 10 percent of people with disabilities, and how many people with disabilities are unemployed, how many people with disabilities are involved in sports activities, how many disabled people are here in the Labour Assembly, officials, how many MPs, how many in the executive and judicial authorities? You don't have that. You don't know what the problem is. Then you have no politics or strategy, and you pass the law that follows in the end. That's the problem with all the laws. I don't blame you personally, it's nothing new. In an individual debate, we'll point to a series of things that we've noticed. Our criticism isn't criticism, it's concrete. Come from the definition. You've redefined this category. You say in Article 3 "persons with disabilities" "marked persons with innate or acquired physical, sensory, intellectual or emotional disability which, due to social or other obstacles, do not have the possibility or have limited opportunities to engage in the activities of society". So if they didn't turn on, you turned them off, they're no longer disabled if they're involved. Read that sentence. Call for help logic. This isn't working. For the people to understand medicine as well as to say this, disabled persons are persons with physical and mental disabilities. It's the end of the story and everyone understands. You've now reached sensory disorders. You're confusing a common people. What sensory disorders? Isn't the sound of something material to you? Aren't ear organs material? New categories, new definitions, one chaos that only confuses someone who's well-intentioned. You overwrite it here on every side, and this is what quasi-ist and non-professionals do for you. The law should be clear in its sayings and its norms. For example, you're saying: the involvement of people with disabilities, you say, the principles of the law. You've listed five principles here. Where is this principle of social care for the special needs of disabled people? You don't put that in principle. What are you talking about? Look what you've counted here. I don't want to read it. It's funny. One society, which wants to be humane, must be aware of the special needs of disabled people and, in accordance with its capabilities, try to achieve maximum in meeting these needs. I don't understand anything here. I may be intellectually underprivileged and from where you prescribed this, but I'm connected to this matter, since I'm a health worker. Article 7 - violation of the principle of equal rights and obligations exists: "if there is no proportion between the measures taken and the objective achieved by these measures". That's an injury, then. So I want to organize a donor conference for the blind, and then I expect to make 100,000 dinars and call a big circle of people, donors, and they give a little money. Then we hurt the rights of equality. What's this? Who are you writing this to? What you're writing, I don't understand. How he'll understand a simple man. He's still saying - health discrimination. That's my theme. He says: "A particularly difficult case of discrimination over disability is any discrimination against persons with disabilities when providing health services. "And then he says, "Dicrimination of persons with disabilities in providing health services is considered: firstly, refusal to provide health care to a person with disabilities because of her disability." Where's that? You're sharing it, you're calling it a special category. If the doctor doesn't point out the citizen's help, he'll answer criminally. Don't write nebuloses here, too. What else does it say, when we speak in detail, I'll comment. What's cardinal and what we have to say, you don't have criminal provisions here. You've led to the humiliation of the disabled that they have to sue someone who's damaged them themselves. Why do you need public prosecutors? It's funny that I'm the one who's damaged has to sue, so it's humiliating that the newspaper, the way they are, calls him and puts him to complain and sue. It has to be protected by different mechanisms. Therefore, why you came to this law is said: advocacy to the west in a false way. The West doesn't like courtship this way, you know. Second, the calming of an unclean conscience because of the disrespect of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24706	The word is Dr Milet Poscuric, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24707	Ladies and gentlemen, of course we don't need to comment on whether the law or declaration or something, obviously the legal norm is not, the text of legal character is not before us. It's the registration of a condition that exists where some possibly permanent social worker registered a phenomenon that unfortunately exists in every society, including us, suggested measures and norms that were not legally formed in the form of a bill or so on. The law and then set it mainly on the basis of bad definitions, poor recognition. It has already been said that disability can be defined much more precisely, physical and mental disorders that limit physical condition, physiological needs, physiological possibilities and make a person unequal to average or other persons. When we talk about this opening act is not good, the concept of discrimination contains one word, a failure in a sentence, and it could simply have been an inaction. He couldn't make amends because the sentence would lose its meaning. So, a pretty clear term, without particularly explaining discrimination, contains a single word that even the parentheses can't explain too well what is meant to be said. There were much better solutions, where local self-government obligations, all levels of government had to be taken into account, where discrimination against officials and institutions themselves as a concept or as a phenomenon would be eliminated. This applies, of course, to procedures and measures that occur in the education system, in health care, and therefore this definition cannot cover everything that later, when we consider in the details of the solutions contained in this law and the circumstances in which a person can potentially meet the elements of discrimination, cannot be easily influenced under this definition. When it comes to the second part, discrimination here is determined as both direct and indirect. There was no talk of intentional and unintentional, which we face in societies, especially in this transitional period, where there were very often deliberate discrimination. We're witnessing the latest developments. It's not just people with disabilities, it's people who can get hit on a mental level. The injury of such persons is once again a discriminatory act. Undercover or manifesto, we had a fresh example of one of the speakers which means disguised, latent, easily unrecognizable discrimination, which here is not specifically highlighted and processed. The occasional or permanent, someone may be repeated in these proceedings of discriminatory relations, so there are no post-cultural provisions that go in the opening part, and here they are put only as direct discrimination and indirect discrimination which is clear, and of course some of these riritites that I would make in this law, except for discrimination in health, where very much could be spoken. There are discriminating and healthy people. Today, waiting in line for you to be operated, buying a drug at a different price each day, today waiting for a lab service, for a diagnostic service, is discrimination so-called. healthy. If someone's going into some serious surgery, he's already disabled by the fact that he's not healthy. We don't have a definition of disability, weight, degree, we don't have state measures that will form a scientific and some kind of strategy, so they're going to say that under the disabled is considered physical, psychological, that and that degree. You can't say that someone who can't walk, has vascular disease, barely wears crutches, isn't disabled, when it's cured, maybe it won't be anymore. The very definition, which you gave in introduction, persons with disabilities, inability to engage in active society. After inclusion he remains disabled, many remain. When it's involved in social life, it gets a job, it stays disabled. These are findings that are unclear in the text. A little text, a little law, you had to rewrite a dozen of some supporters in Europe and the world, whatever codes, so it could be translated more nicely, a nicer copy, but you can see that you weren't able to do it either. When it comes to employment, there is no government measure, there is no measure of state, organised society, with the strongest financial power to support a private company, a social firm, that it is favored by tax policy, incentive measures, credit policy to hire such persons. You're even shutting down in Kragujevac, the company is going to go on a tender, it's going to sell out, and people are going to be out of a job. As soon as a foreign boss or a domestic tycoon comes in, they'll get rid of the disabled first, because that's what people who aren't disabled can do, and he'll choose. So something that used to be in some other form of ownership now, with this tycounization and privatisation, without any meaning or goal, will give you a greater risk of joining the disabled over these million unemployed. They won't get anything but that it was some kind of law, it was spoken etc. Of course, the state was not interested in any evaluation mechanisms that would determine the causes of disability. It's not just the Labour Act, there's a lot to be done, the Traffic, Drugs Act, etc. A lot of things should be taxed by the state to count what it's responsible for. She gave local self-government to build sidewalks, so people could come in and end the story. So, a lot of things the state hasn't taken over, it's left so many blanks that the law won't actually be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24708	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24709	Mr. Markovic, at first I would ask you not to advocate the minister, you should hear very important things and the final position of the SRS on this bill. First of all, I would suggest that you withdraw this law from the agenda, and I'm just going to brief you on the reasons. You see, according to that little charter of yours, it's this Civil Rights Charter, and according to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, we're the only country on the globe of the Earth that has a primacy of international law over domestic law. This is given in a different formulation, that the international law that we have ratified and which we have accessed is an integral part of our internal legal order. However, all normal states resort to one other path, which is when they ratify an international agreement then, in accordance with their constitution, what they have undertaken as an obligation to build into their internal legal order their domestic laws. Now here we have a failed attempt where international standards that have been adopted, let's not argue that, even our country in 1995 has accepted those standards of the General Assembly, we need to translate into our regulations, not into one but more of our regulations, and here the motion has drawn up an area that would have to be swept through probably 20 individual laws and made a law, essentially one political declaration that doesn't commit anything. What's this about? You see, if we talk about rights from the working relationship of disabled persons or we talk about the right to hire citizens, and that includes disabled persons, according to the existing Constitution and the law, they are all equal and equal before the Constitution and the law. Then the question arises, and what is this law, this one that is now proposed? I could understand that you wanted to capture an area that missed and was not in some way regulated in twenty regulations that regulate the status of disabled persons and disabled persons, etc. I could understand that. Why? Because of the fact that there is a category of citizens who have so much and insurmountable in their lives, which is insignificant for an ordinary person with general health skills. Going up two steps and getting to the counter for most people is a meaningless little thing. For a disabled person, for a disabled person, for someone with extreme problems, it's an insurmountable obstacle. The elevator is an insurmountable obstacle. Room door if 80 centimetres, insurmountable obstacle if the face is tied to the wheelchair. I took a concrete example. Twenty years ago I did these jobs, but this thing that binds the state doesn't bind a disabled person, a disabled person. The state needs to prescribe its standards, building standards: there are no more buildings that can be built unless there are no access ramps, and the end of the story. You don't need this law, you need the one that's on the agenda about planning construction. Keep going. You have special cases of discrimination. Discrimination in proceedings before public authorities. Do you claim that our General Administrative Procedure Act is not good, that it contains some procedural provision that discriminates against a disabled or disabled person. If there are such provisions, let us amend the General Administrative Procedure Act, the State Administration Act, the Civil Service Act. Do you claim discrimination about associations where one of these persons is forbidden to join some associations? Then give the law on social organisations, citizens' associations, political party law, to build a standard there if necessary. You say - discrimination regarding the provision of services and use of facilities and surfaces, building standards, we agree. Let's change that. Furthermore, discrimination about health services, I just can't believe it. If there is discrimination in the behaviour of a health officer, Mr. Momchilov told you that this problem is being solved and why you put the declaration here or say – so we regulated everything by law. Not only with the health care law, but also with a special law. What's it worth when there's no use for a man who needs to enjoy some protection? Discrimination about education and education, we have three laws on education and education. I haven't noticed any discriminatory provision in any of these laws. If you feel that something needs to be changed in that regulation, to avoid any systemic discrimination over handicaps, you suggest a change of that law, you have our support. Furthermore, discrimination regarding employment and employment relations. Mr. Minister, this 21st member, up to 26th, is a burden on you. You have admitted in terms 21 to 26 that when you proposed here and defended the Labour Act, this protection law, safety at work, etc., you have made a mistake. Now you're correcting it with these provisions. You remember when those two laws were on the agenda. They told you there's no disabled here. A year and a half ago, from this pay phone. I think the president is very interesting, he will reduce the debate in particular. I'm halfway through to convince the minister that he's withdrawing this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24710	I'm just asking you to bring the end after we've extended more than four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24711	Until about a year and a half ago, we could hear from this pay phone, and now they're gone, they've escaped from the Assembly, positive discrimination. When we said – if it's positive, there's probably also a negative one, but if it's discrimination, then it means that there's some difference between inappropriate, unnecessary, disdainful, etc. Now we're avoiding it, now we're chasing some standards, and in certain provisions it's admitted that something hasn't been regulated. What you said about protection, 50% of what you wrote here, if you had a man who had little knowledge of the litigation procedure in your ministry or in this group that did it, he would tell you that there is a law on bonding relations with the provision of material and immaterial damage. In particular, Articles 198 and 199. The law on bond relations, where there is a possibility of collecting immaterial damages due to discrimination. I agree that there is no case-law that is of quality, but by law like this, you have achieved nothing. If you think this law is basic to everyone else, the guideline of what they need to change, in which direction they're working, then you're wrong on the subject. I don't want to touch the concrete amendments and these illogicalities that Mr. Momchilov spoke of earlier, but here at the beginning, at the very beginning of the sentence, you're talking about a discriminatory person, and the previous member himself does not indicate that there is any discrimination. Discrimination is forbidden by general norm, not only by criminal law, but by the adoption of every law, we must make sure that we do not cause discrimination. You are now giving this as something to confirm, as you said, that we are leaders in humanity. Leaders in humanity who did not want to discuss the fact that our citizens are being killed in The Hague. Where's your humanity? Somehow you always forget her when it comes to Vojislav Seselj. Is it possible that you are human to everyone and you are not human to Vojislav Seselj? How can I trust you? How can I trust you to be human? We warned you about the Labour Act, the Labour Safety Act, and we warned you about Family Law, remember when he was being passed, we warned of certain provisions, that you were passing laws that were not applicable. This law no one will apply. Why? I don't know which provision is applicable to this? The one with the working relationship? It's your responsibility. What are you sharing with us is a responsibility, and a few months ago, we were changing the law, and now you're telling us to change that law? The SPS says he was rude, so he pulled something, and the IMF gets angry and foreign investors get angry. Who is this foreign investor who hired a disabled person? Tell me, even if they're at headquarters, because they can work there? He didn't hire. Why are foreign investors coming here? Because it's cheap. For them, it's a burden to a disabled person. Back then, we were human society, and at this democratic time where humanity went? In “Sablja, ” it melted. A billionaire became Chad without a day of work, and that's democracy, that's humane. What humanity you're talking about. Take care of what you do. Let the bad faces think about who they're voting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24712	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here you go. Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24713	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motive to answer my word, although my distinguished colleagues had a discussion about this bill, is that during the afternoon, I had more phone calls than the different associations of people whose laws are directly concerned. So you can assume that you have to keep an eye on the assembly speaker when this topic is considered, because the most interesting people are currently watching this transmission and closely following the discussion, and it is my duty to say that the most common question is whether this law will pass. Out of discussions and MPs G17 + and other parliamentary groups of the ruling majority, this law will be passed. What we all know is that our country is a signatories of the Convention on Human and Minority Rights, is, but it's not enough, either. And you know well that we need to bring a constitution in which all these things will be re-installed. Here I heard the discussion that we were wondering about certain things, why they were inside, because the laws also require that those principled things, definitions, key things be found in it clearly and precisely defined. So the values of all the countries of the modern world are both justice and justice, and solidarity and freedom, and democratic society and humanity, all that we want, if it isn't restored in our country, to do so, therefore, that we reinstall the values here, too, to live in the best possible way. The position of the Serbian Parliament on this issue is very important. It's important for two reasons. One is to resolve this area legally, or regulate it. And the second that we have, as an institution of the greatest state importance, an impact on other social life factors in our country, that we also influence them, that we further affirm these values, and humanity, and solidarity and all that is in their power. And today people have told me that these definitions and principles, and they are in the law, in the bill on preventing discrimination on persons with disabilities, are according to world standards, are as well as definitions found in 40 countries, as the minister here stated, countries that have passed such a law. What's important is that we keep in mind, what do the people who care about this law really want? They want, therefore, to live in one normal way, to live, work and function. And what does that mean? For the start of the morning, they get up and perform day-to-day functions, go to the store, go to health care, pharmacy, school, and, of course, it comes from opening up the issue that bothers them, which is the question of employment. There's one question that's been asked, and perhaps the minister can answer, and that's what happens to personal assistants and people who help these people. We know that the project currently supports the Irish government, which is by the end of the year, but what are we going to do since the end of the year. So we have to systematically solve certain things and help these people. I'm going to give an example, a positive example, of how local self-government can, and also using this example of other local self-government, to help people with disabilities. An example is the Municipality of Zvezda, which in the local community "Bulbulder" renovated the meat community and the local community's premises also adapted to people with disabilities. They have an office specially designed where they can meet, but also agree together and make certain proposals to municipalities, republics and so on, from there and send. I visited that room and this is an appeal to other municipalities to do something like that, to help in every way possible. It's also required that criminal provisions be entered into the law. I don't know if the amendments have been harmonised until the end, but we have the opportunity, the government or the Committee, to still have the opportunity to propose certain amendments, and the Assembly to adopt them, and to agree on that. Once again, I would like to say that the G17+ parliamentary group will support these legislative proposals and anything that affirms any possible assistance in terms of humanity and solidarity, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-03-0.u24714	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, for your responsible words. Since there are no more entries on the lists for a word, I ask if any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., the principle debate of the second item of the agenda. I suppose we'll work tomorrow, informing all those participating in the discussion, most likely by the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, for all MPs who are responsible for the work. Thank you for your responsibilities and pleasant.
