ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26348	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before the National Assembly of Serbia, there is a bill on arbitration that represents the first law to be introduced into our legal system. You all know that arbitration in the Serbian legal order is not a novelty. Also famous Professor Mihailo Konstantinovic at the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, about 1953, introduced so-called. external trade arbitration. This foreign trade arbitration lives to this day. Her life has had ups and downs, however, she has succeeded in building a solid, serious verdict in the arbitration disputes she has led. What's the main thing for her is that she's an international arbitration. In other words, whenever there is an economic dispute between two domestic companies, all those companies that are registered with us, if there is a dispute between them, that arbitration cannot be used. On the other hand, there is also one arbitration in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, but it did not live much, as it is said once in legal life, and our businessmen had to go to commercial courts, trade courts to settle their disputes. Today, we are particularly aware of the problems our trade courts often bring with them, and that is why it is very important that domestic arbitration develops in Serbia, alongside this international one that we already have. The law on litigation, unfortunately, only once in a short and shrub provision regulates the question of arbitration as so-called. the chosen, very unusual word, the chosen court. This provision of the Law on litigation states that those rights on which the parties can freely dispose may also resolve disputes on those rights before so-called so-called “rights”. The chosen court. That's all there is in our legal system on arbitration dispute resolution. On the other hand, all major businesses and smaller countries with strong economies have developed arbitration, and often professional arbitration, which are not exclusively legal, do not exclusively sit lawyers in these arbitrations, but are respected businessmen who well understand the nature of the relationship of a particular trade transaction and know that they are justly and in the right way to resolve such disputes. It is known, for example, as a Paris trade arbitration, which is highly occupied by economic disputes among French economic operators. With all these circumstances in mind, and this is, by one, the ineffectiveness of our trade judiciary, under two, the need for closer regulation of arbitration, and thus promoting the arbitration idea in Serbia, we have come to the conclusion that we need to draw up a law that will be based on the UNCITRAL model law. UNCITRAL is a specialised UN agency dealing with the development and harmonisation of international trade law. They developed a model law on arbitration, which gained international authority and must have accepted 50 countries worldwide as the basis for their national law on arbitration. The closer the national law to UNCITRAL's model is, at an international level, more recognizable, and thus ingests the idea of security and foreign companies that want to settle their disputes against the arbitration of the country that has the law based on the UNCITRAL model. My first instruction for making this law is – you work on the basis of the UNCITRAL model, it's a checked thing, and the less you step away from it. The second principle was the principle of efficiency. We are not going to achieve the result of a quick solution to the dispute, and the speed of settlement of the dispute is extremely important for the functioning of an economy. As long as some property is in the dispute, that property is blocked for both the prosecutor and the defendant. Thus, it is not in a business function and is produced damage, has escaped profit is obtained. This is why it is very important to solve effectively, which is why it is so important and so much used arbitration as a method of resolving disputes. In order not to allow arbitration to take its arbitration ruling, i.e. the verdict, and then to be wide open or for the recognition of the court, that it must be recognised by court in order to be enforceable, and then to re-enter those corridors that are not effective, we went to the fact that the arbitration decision, once made, is definitive, final, executive, judicial executive decision and that only in those situations which the law explicitly states as reasons for reviewing i.e. the annulment of this arbitration decision is to be intervened by the court. So in a very defined circle of issues that really question the quality of this arbitration decision, only then does the court interfere with the whole thing. Otherwise, the arbitration decision is enforceable and directly with the arbitration ruling goes before the Court's executive bodies or, if we have a private execution one day, goes to that execution and thus comes out of the proceedings, the matter ends and goes on as decided. These were, therefore, the principles on which this law on arbitration was done. It was also designed to arrange international arbitration and domestic arbitration in parallel. There are, of course, certain differences between international and domestic arbitration, but the basic principles are there. The law on arbitration regulates all important issues that are typically governed by laws dealing with arbitration. It has the first general provisions relating to the general principles of arbitration, then has a chapter on the establishment of arbitration, the arbitration procedure, the making of an arbitration decision, and the recognition of enforcement before the competent authorities and the review of that decision before the court. This law was done by our most famous Arbitraries with strong international experience, by people who themselves were arbiters in the international arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris. So it's a law that's in line with the latest trends. They also worked for arbitration theorists from our colleges. The law is in line with UNCITRAL, with the most modern trends in the development of arbitration law, which is a very dynamic area of law and we believe that it will be at a large disadvantage to the Serbian legal system, and it is my pleasure and honor to propose this law to your attention and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26349	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26350	Mr. Mikhailovich, there seems to be some confusion at the beginning of this session today. We have been informed that this debate is united, that we have two laws in the debate: one is the draft law on arbitration, and the other is the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. For both proposals, the government's authorized representative... (President: Mr. Krasic, if you insist, here's the minister to plead on the second bill, and then you can get the word. I'm not insisting, I'm just saying. I didn't even advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't even ask for your intervention, I just said that I was surprised that here... (President: Mr. Krasic, the minister was asked to make a statement about the second proposal just before you went out for the pay phone, in fact, because of you. ) Mr. Mihailovic, the minister has time today, as he can pick up whenever he wants and however he wants, so let him adjust his strategy as he imagines. (President: I thought you could talk about the minister's presentation. If you want, speak now, the minister will follow you. Mr. Mikhailovich, I guess you don't understand me this morning. On Monday, you executed a kind of torture here, and you asked to join the debate. You voted in force, you said – for efficiency, etc. Now you won't allow me to assess the opening debate in the principle of a united discussion of two laws. Since you have someone else's opinion, keep your opinion; I will include it in the principle debate as you have prescribed to do at this session. In the first part, I will present the views of the SRS on the draft law on arbitration. This isn't our first proposal for a law like this. We had the arbitration arranged. Just to remind you, when last year's new Law on Prosecution was adopted, one of our remarks was why there was no provisions on arbitration. It was then said that a special law would regulate arbitration. I can say that even it was promised to be arranged in case it wasn't identical then similar to how it existed in the Law of Prosecution. These provisions were not a big problem, since this one arbitration which existed was in line with those provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure, and those provisions were indeed of principle. Other things, very important for the pre-arbitsion proceedings, are resolved by internal acts of arbitration itself. It is not true that arbitration speeds up the resolution of disputes between entities. Why? Because it depends on the parties. Some parties agree to arbitration, so they cannot agree on arbitration and, of course, the case comes before the law to the prescribed court. Arbitration is one option based on the volunteering of business partners. We have submitted one number of amendments to this bill. I think it's a really small number of amendments, but it's a principled nature, because we wanted to draw attention to the fact that this wide-ranging concept of arbitration is practically denying the jurisdiction of the state. Very specific to be, we have submitted nine amendments. In the principle debate, we did not receive information from the government's representatives whether any amendments were adopted or not. I reckon they weren't adopted, and I reserve the right to comment on what we objected to and what we asked to correct. The SRS cannot accept the government's position that any natural person can negotiate arbitration in some mutual economic relations. It is likely that those who wrote this bill forgot one thing – that almost all those who enter into economic relations do not enter into private relations about certain things. Two people -- A and B, at the market, do some exchange, they can't go to arbitration, because if they were allowed to go to arbitration, then the question is, why the court, what law? In our concept, arbitration is only possible between legal persons, and some disputed relations from a mutual economic relationship. Two legal entities have agreed on a business, they have their obligations and their rights, there has been a dispute over fulfilling obligations, rights, they may ask for the dispute to be resolved before arbitration, if they have pre-arranged such a form of settlement of the disputed relationship. But between a natural person and a legal person, if a dispute arises, you can't negotiate a settlement before arbitration, because then it's a negation of an existing judicial system. That's the first remark. The second principled remark is who can form permanent arbitration. You have suggested that permanent arbitration institutions can establish a Chamber of Commerce, Professional and Professional Associations, Citizens' Associations in accordance with their founding act. We believe that citizens' associations cannot form arbitration that would have that jurisdiction and that power of decision provided for by this bill. Why? The Association of Citizens is an NGO. It is possible, for example, that Vojin Dimitrijevic and Natasa Kandic, as they are in one association, form arbitration, she will be specialized in some disputes and then begin to seob or encourage their sponsors from abroad – you will get funds for a job if you agree with your business partners the jurisdiction of arbitration at which Vojin Dimitrijevic, Natasa Kandic, is headed. Well, it could be a bit of a mix, so it could be some other association, Sonja Biserko, or some third association, this one that's suddenly weakened, Miljenko Deretta, a reduced grant, and immediately a man weakens in weight. How could we accept the decisions of this arbitration? It seems funny to you, but it's written here. Not very specific and precise, but it hides behind these two words "citizens' association". All citizens' associations have some rules, and they serve to resolve, among other things, the disputed relationship between members, but it is not the subject of this law. You can't give citizens' associations that authority to form permanent arbitration institutions, because these would, as they do, create a parallel structure of the judiciary in our country. Furthermore, the sense of volunteering is lost, the meaning of arbitration is lost, if you prescribe that in the event of disagreement between the arbitration tribunals selected by the parties in the dispute and in the case of their disagreement over the choice of the third joint, the decision should be taken by the competent court. Why would the court interfere with what the parties themselves have agreed? We need these permanent arbitrations, actually. That's what it says in 17 members. Always where a dispute arises over what one party has proposed one arbiter, the other arbiter, the two arbiters should choose a common third. If they do not agree, the third is elected by the competent court. Then you lose the sense of arbitration. It's much better to start with the basic principles of permanent arbitration, external trade, at the Chamber of Commerce. We cannot accept the view that a subsequent arbitration is considered to be agreed if the parties in the dispute say before the court – we do not want to resolve it before the court, but rather agree that we will go to arbitration. We can't accept that. The arbitration must be negotiated, must be predicted before the dispute arises. When a dispute arises, how to change, how to negotiate, how to exclude the application of the provisions of the law from the jurisdiction of the state authority to resolve a particular dispute. This is quite freely written, so I'm going back to the initial information I've given on this bill: we've been really trying really hard to intervene when it comes to this bill, we're just looking to remove some principled objections. I have to tell you, this isn't about second-guessing, second-guessing. I don't believe which law school professor might support this. However, we here from the pay phone, when it comes to government representatives, hear different claims and different promises that behind some bill there are banks, experts, etc. Mr. Parivovich, your recording law, that mortgage, you saw what the bankers said the other day. Under this law, a mortgage cannot be entered and what you say about building permits – no one will, and you said that the bankers told us that they would accept it. Report 10 minutes on RTS, no bank accepts. We're warning you in advance. Then we warned you about this law and some others, you didn't believe us, but in collision with reality you see our attitudes prevail. It says – the arbitration court can make a decision based on justice and justice. For our arbitration that existed, it used to work and it was a solid arbitration, it was much more important provisions of the law and of the universe. I share with you that people of professionals, where the law simply cannot follow technology, technique, where, for some time, they are late and vulnerable, where the development of new standards and technical norms simply imposes a new understanding of the law, it must be said, that it is very desirable for professionals to use professionals as arbitration to solve this disputed relationship, and it has justifications. And only in that part of the country wants to admit the arbitration ruling. But we can't put the bill wide-ranging so that everyone who argues about something goes to arbitration, and so it's about set up. I claim that even arbitration can be misused in some places, because the arbitration agreement of the party has the right to have their demands, which is the basic condition for something to go to arbitration, the formal-law parties have agreed to arbitration, because in this way everything is practically met to go to arbitration, but they can use those requirements to avoid applying some norms from some law. Therefore, when determining what can go to arbitration, where arbitration should be done, how arbitration should be drawn up, what is the meaning of the arbitration decision, should be very careful and accessed restrictively, so as not to abuse this right in order to avoid the application of laws and some other binding norms. In that sense, we have submitted amendments. We didn't want to go with any more restrictions. That's what we're going to have to do with the debate on amendments, we're going to have a chance to specifically tell and point to some examples of practice, but here, on the third day, we're going to talk about the efficiency of our judiciary and the effectiveness of that body that needs to solve the disputed relationship. Then we simply come up with an incredible situation to criticize everything, instead of focusing on two or three issues or problems that need to be solved. Then it comes from this pay phone with a story from the government that only lawmaking solves this problem, and that we simply forget that we have not exhausted all the opportunities that the existing law gives, first of all I mean these personal, personal, subjective problems. We haven't solved the question of the judge and his quality of work, and then we say, to warn it, to change the law, so the trade courts aren't effective, to give it to arbitration, they're going to end their dispute more quickly. Then you said, as soon as some economic operator enters a dispute, the property is somehow blocked. It's not blocked property, that's the problem. I wish it was blocked, that it was somehow provided as a means from which to settle any debt when determined in court. However, the situation is completely different. I'll tell you what she's like, I don't want to talk names. One firm has been running a dispute since 1992 in front of the Sombor Commercial Court. It was a social enterprise at the time – the defendant, the prosecutor of a private company, provided some goods. The company partially paid, and the rest didn't pay. There was a lawsuit to collect this claim, it became difficult and difficult; in the meantime, the company went into bankruptcy a little bit, and something like it wasn't in bankruptcy, so it went into privatisation, so it didn't go into privatisation, so something exceptional and sold beyond privatisation commercially. And this private company, with large funds blocked, with huge claims (enough to say that since 1992, take that inflation, interest, and not to argue how it is), is not yet able to achieve this claim in the court dispute, and even if that claim were achieved, there would be nothing to collect that claim from. If we took that example and now someone came and said, if they had agreed on the jurisdiction of arbitration, that would not have been the case. She'd be the same. It would be the same, Minister, but you know why it's the same? It is because of what Palalić told you – because you had a system in this period of dissuasion of social capital. As the court has blocked him in the fulfillment of his claims, so will arbitration; and one, and the other, the hearing, and the skill, and the super-skilling, and this, and that. Of course, we are in favour of a regulation that would regulate the procedure before arbitration, the composition of arbitration, the importance and decision of the arbitration court, etc., in a very restrictive way, in order not to happen, we swear to a new law, we think that the law will solve all our problems, and that it will continue with the practice that exists in trade courts, where it is evident that some disputes and assets are being drawn up for years. That's why we submitted these amendments. Since I am a disciplined MP for this second bill, it is essentially an inspection regulation that should prevent the unauthorized use of other people's works of art and even creative works, and that someone illegally is rich at the harm of authors, innovators, etc. We believe that what you have arranged for this law is enough space to access the work without this law and that these contain existing inspection regulations. We're not making a problem for you because of this law, but with one group of amendments, we wanted to draw your attention to some of the areas you've dropped, and also to the rights of authorship, intellectual property, etc. I think by adopting these amendments, that law can be improved. However, there will remain one indeterminate relationship to the federal regulation, dimensions as long as this is just traffic control and whether something is in traffic, and not going into self-authority as a right. It's just that stain. I don't think the vacuum between the federal regulations is well-resolved, and it will be prescribed at the level of the state union applying to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's where a vacuum comes in and those who wrote these regulations have, I guess, dropped that part. It might have been better if that law had gone to work, but we've submitted amendments, so we'll see, depending on those amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26351	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. The draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights – it would be good for the minister, having realised that separate agenda points are also to note here. Here you go, Mr. Parisian.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, another law that I have the pleasure and honor to present to you is the law on special powers to effectively protect intellectual property rights. Mr Krasic rightly said, it is a law that primarily deals with inspection bodies, giving them adequate orders for effective protection of intellectual property rights. I'm a patent rep by profession, and I know what problems I've had in protecting intellectual property rights in my practice. When I spoke to the police, the police had more important things to do. When I spoke to a trade inspection, they said they weren't in charge, etc. There have always been problems because the regulations are not written in a sufficiently clear, specific, explicit way to effectively protect intellectual property rights. The typical reaction of the inspection services was – you are suing the one who violates your right, so when you get a judicial and executive verdict, then we will judge by it. This means that the reaction will occur as soon as possible within a year and a half to two days. By then, a lot of things will change, and a lot of things will be acquired, without grounds, by using someone else's brand, someone else's model, someone else's author's work. It's inefficient protection. This law specifically gives authority and orders the inspection services that, when they find a goods that violates the right of intellectual property, they have the right and the duty to take such goods on the spot and then, in the legal procedure, to continue to experience their proper fate. Inspectors are already trained to identify goods that hurt brands, models, patterns, copyrights, and especially computer programs. They are trained for this, and different inspections, market, construction, financial, have an obligation to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected in that area of intellectual property rights closest to them. So, let's say, when stamps, models and samples are injured, then market inspection is in charge. If an architectural project is injured, then a construction inspection is in charge. The mechanisms that these inspections have are very effective. The whole point of this law is to civilise the market in this country and that not only foreign businesses benefit from it, but also our businesses, which are increasingly developing their intellectual rights and whose property has growing values that belong to intellectual rights and that their property is effectively protected and that we are in line with international standards of behaviour on this plan. It is my pleasure to propose this law to your attention and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26353	I thank Minister Parivovich. We're moving on. Do representatives, or presidents of MP clubs who have not used this right, want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Milka Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26354	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is the importance of this law for our environment in the context of the world and the European environment. As MP G17 plus and my MP group will support this law, he is clear, pittful, very transparent. Therefore, the G17 plus will support it. I would like to talk about where Serbia is in such a world and European environment as part of the protection of intellectual property, what has been done in the world to protect intellectual property and what Serbia is compared to the world in this area. The importance of intellectual property protection is intensified by the rapid development of technology. New, highly valuable high-tech products rest on a collection of innovations and creations by several authors. More and more, in addition to its basic purpose and quality, products today must meet the demands of modern design, because on the market the product sells and its appearance and packaging. But new technologies, apart from a significant contribution to the promotion of products themselves, have also facilitated plagiarists, piracy and similar infringements of the intellectual property rights of authors, inventors, designers and other holders of these rights. This condition has conditioned an increased activity in protecting intellectual property rights on the international and internal agenda. We recently had very little written and talked about the importance of this law, that is, this category of protection of intellectual property. By including our country in world trade flows, this issue is being updated and becomes an important condition for our integration into the international community. As you know, there are very common and present inscriptions in our newspaper, I almost had a chance to read: Serbia, a paradise for counterfeits. There are data, they write a newspaper, that not only consumers are at risk, but also the state, and that in warehouses and garages across Serbia, other than wardrobe, spices, motor oil, food products, alcoholic beverages, juices, cosmetics, discs, etc. The way and extent of protection of intellectual property differs from country to country. These differences, and all the problems they bring, are particularly recorded in international and trade relations, especially where there are interferences in the view of so-called. non-tariff barriers, when e.g. in a country, a product of goods based on pirate use. In the world, there is a uniformisation and standardisation of international protection in this area. Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, including trade in counterfeit goods, etc. The TRIPS Agreement, is an agreement adopted on the so-called so-called "TriPS Agreement". The Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations (now World Trade Organisation), which began in 1986 and ended in 1993, with other international trade agreements being brought here in addition to the TRIPS agreement. The TRIPS Agreement establishes the following principles on which the protection of intellectual property rights, which is incorporated into a product – standardisation and international protection, is ensured. The members of the TRIPS Agreement may, through their legislation, provide for a more extensive protection of intellectual property rights, but unless it conflicts with the principles of this Agreement. What are the rights, therefore, and forms of intellectual property, and they enter into protection? These are copyright and related rights, goods and service stamps, which Mr. Minister had just talked about, geographical indications of origin, industrial models and patterns, patents, topography of integrated cars (and I am from the electronic industry, so I have had the opportunity to see that they are also forgeries, although it is a great pain to make), protecting undiscovered information in order to protect against unfair competition, control of practice and restrictions in license agreements. Intellectual property is mainly divided into two areas: copyright and related rights and industrial property. Copyright and related rights are the rights of authors of works of art and film, and should be stressed that computer programs are protected by the same principle; and also a database of data and other materials because of the way they choose and group, and that is copyright. These rights shall be protected for 50 years from the first edition, i.e. the beginning, counting from the end of the calendar year when the work took place, that is, when it was published, except for the photographic works and works of applied art. Artists and phonogram manufacturers shall have the protection of rights for at least 50 years from the end of the calendar year when the recording took place, i.e. when the interpretation or emissions occurred, while the emission manufacturers have been entitled to do so for 20 years, since the end of the year when the emissions were broadcast, with this protection not acting on those copyright works which, at the time of entry into force of this Agreement, became public good. In addition, performers, phonogram manufacturers, sound recording producers have the right to prohibit the recording, i.e. the reproduction of the programme, the lease, the re-emission, or the public announcement of their emissions. Industrial property, which is a source of huge financial resources, is particularly interesting. You're witnessing that in the paper, I mean in "Politics," a feljeton that shows industrial espionage, because there's a lot of money in there. It is divided mainly into two areas. The first area includes goods and service stamps which separate goods and services of one company from another company, and the second protection of geographical indications of origin of goods, which represents the identification of the place from which it originates, which gives it essential attributes of that geographical origin. The protection of distinction signs aims to stimulate competition, but also to protect on the one hand the right holder, and on the other consummation of goods, i.e. to enable him to be informed about the choice and quality of goods and services, with additional protection for the geographical code of wine, alcoholic beverages, in accordance with any member of this TRIPS agreement. Other types of industrial property are protected to stimulate discovery, design, creative technology, and include inventions, patents, industrial models, patterns and undiscovered information. This is where protection is given and it takes 20 years, counting on the day of the application. The protection of intellectual property rights provides for the principle of transparency, i.e. laws and regulations, judicial decisions, as provided for in this proposal, and the administrative rules of general purpose of the Member State relating to the subject, accessibility, scope, acquisition, misuse of intellectual property rights, must be published and made available in the language of the Member State. The draft law provides for legal means for the protection of intellectual property rights in civil and administrative proceedings, as well as legal means for the state to allow the rightholders to protect their rights in court. It is mandatory to ensure equality in the process, fairness, impartiality, as well as the principles of directness. No obligation shall be imposed on holders of the right to appear in person and the parties shall be entitled to be represented by legal agents in order to provide evidence and to determine the facts of the situation. The procedure must provide a way of detecting and protecting classified information if it is not contrary to the constitutional order. The courts must have the authority to impose judicial prohibitions for violation of the right and to order the offender to pay the holder the right to intellectual property, compensation for use and damage, and to compensate for the costs of the proceedings. In order to effectively prevent infringement of the right of intellectual property, the judicial authorities must have the authority to impose a withdrawal from the market of such goods, which constitutes a violation of such rights, without compensation to the owner, and may also be ordered to remove raw materials and tools that create such goods from the market, in a way that will permanently reduce the possibility of further infringement of intellectual property rights. It is also prescribed that there must be a proportion between the severity of the injury and the legal remedies imposed, as the interest of third parties. So it's possible to conduct an administrative procedure. The draft law provides for emergency and effective temporary measures to prevent infringement of any intellectual property right and to preserve relevant evidence in relation to that infringement, so that the temporary measure can be adopted without the hearing of the other party. This agreement provides for border measures; an intellectual property rightholder may address the requirements of the competent judicial administrative authorities in order to suspend the placing on the market of counterfeit goods, which in some ways offends intellectual property rights. The possibility of conducting criminal proceedings and the criminal punishment of perpetrators of intellectual property infringements is foreseen, in the context of conscious counterfeiting of stamps or at copyright piracy, in connection with commercialization of them. High fines, including prevention measures, are provided for as penalties. The International Agreement provides for 1994. General Agreement on Customs, i.e. its provisions will apply and disputes between the members of the signatories of the agreement will be settled. However, we are just opening the door to the whole process. I just wanted to point out that this law is on that path and that it should be accepted, and that we in our approaches to both the European Union and the World Trade Organisation will have to accept all these stricter norms, but that we will succeed. The TRIPS agreement provides that for the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights, in which Member States will have to provide information on their activities to the world organisation, in order to appoint the council, to follow, how members fulfil their obligations, but also to enable members to consult on the issue of protection of rights, because this is a major problem of intellectual property... It is foreseen that the Council may request data from any source of information, from any country, if it considers it necessary and also to achieve it with WIPO, it is the World Intellectual Property Organisation, which is exactly what it tells us about the importance and usefulness of joining this international agreement. Since we're on our way and we want to join the World Trade Organization, we're going to have to take all these agreements and act on them. Thank you and I hope that since this is a technical law, the Assembly will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26355	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by SRS, DSS and SPS parliamentary groups. The People's Messenger Milan Nikolic has the word, and let the MP Jovan Palalic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26356	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the authorised representative of the SPS will talk longer about the laws that are on the agenda, but as a man who deals with the economy for almost all of my century, I feel the need to say that there are two seemingly ordinary laws in front of us, however, my party and I attach an extremely great importance to them, because in both cases, it is a lot of unregulated areas and as a consequence we have chaos on the market and in the economy of our country. I am in a position to very often sign foreign contracts and, as a rule, one of the members of those contracts foresees the jurisdiction of arbitration and predicts the jurisdiction of the courts. Unfortunately, although we have a tradition, the minister spoke of it, we do not introduce possible disputes or the realization of a special agreement of arbitration, which I appreciate is very effective, which can make a fair and fair judgment or a decision quite quickly, which is important for the economy, because we have a situation for the courts, because of the overcrowding of various cases, unfortunately because of many other problems that we talk about very often in the Assembly (corruption of individual judges, etc.)...that these processes are going on for so long that they become immaterial the moment the verdicts are reached. At the same time, I think that the selected arbiters and control in the arbitration of the terra on the safestan, responsible, continuous and very fast way of making the decision. I think this is what the Assembly needs unanimously to decide on today. On the other hand, trust in our legal system will be greater if a partner from abroad, with some dependent companies, with his capital in this country, knows that he can count on some arbitration ruling from such an institution, rather than waiting for a long-term solution to the problem through courts. When it comes to effective protection of intellectual property, unfortunately, we are not the only country, but we are a country in transition where there is considerable chaos when it comes to intellectual property rights. We are full of shops that are "bennethon", "naked", etc., and it is a bofl that cheats on the customer in a certain way, bringing a lot of profits to those who import it or possibly produce it, and it creates mistrust with large multinational companies that organize production around the world, even in our country possible production, taking into account professional labour, above all, in the textile, shoe industry, etc. It simply doesn't seem, precisely because of this kind of pirate work, especially when it comes to industrial design. I want to give an example of my company: in order to make a quality and modern product, which the market requires, we pay the authors, the designers from Paris, Milan, a large design centre here in Belgrade, we pay the percentage of each sold piece of a particular product to the author, so that in a month, after each new product, a copy, a plagiarism that is quite unsuccessful in terms of quality copied, but we do not have the strength to stop it, because there is a right everywhere, but to the end unsaided. I think it is very important in this law that now, in addition to the right of the one who is the holder of this authority or the right of intellectual property, by their responsibility and jurisdiction, many inspections will be monitored by the exercise or violation of such rights, the abuse of such rights and independent of the rightholders to make a very fast and adequate decision. Of course, I think that procedure is also quite well described, prescribed and how it will be realised, by being quite still entitled to what needs to be answered because it has used a certain copyright, misused, in terms of not suddenly taking away goods, the process of the right to object, etc., I think, for starters, it is sufficiently regulated in relation to what has been the situation so far. It is certain that if we want to, and we have such capacities and an even greater need for organisation or increased production in this country, and therefore the need for exporting and active inclusion in the international division of labour, we must as a country provide the right security and the one who will invest and the one who has already invested that he can count on protecting his product in the right way, that he has the protection of the state around it, and if the problem arises, he can be resolved quite quickly in this way. The Socialist Party of Serbia will, and will say so, both the one and the other law in the voting day will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26357	If you don't mind, an authorised SPS representative wants a word, says he will be brief, MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I apologize, colleague, for the slight violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, distinguished associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS and its MPs in the voting day will vote for one law and for another. Let me say in a few sentences why we think it's important. When it comes to arbitration, there is no serious economic operator who does not have such a request. Since we need to be the service of those who create good and ensure that citizens of this country can live normally, we need to help create such legal tools to ensure that different problems exist effectively. As the Honorable Minister once said, I will repeat it, I apologize, I think that's the most important thing, if we save this area from corruption, then it makes sense, and if we don't do it and we blow this thing up, then, I apologize, to say in a colloquial language, we've been painting for nothing. This is very important and I hope that those who enforce the law will have this in mind, because in Serbia there is always "two without a soul one without a head". It should guide all of us when we do any work, not to let in any way what is here is a good intention and what is the majority political will in a certain way be compromised. As for this second law, which is also very important, it is practically just the operationalization of the already passed law and it should ensure, as it is everywhere in the normal world, where there is a normal economic, state-owned environment, that the right of intellectual property is treated as any other property and that it is protected as it is by someone's Athar by some kind of security or some kind of fence, because until it happens, we can't count on it to have achieved... I will give an example here, I was born in Gornji Milanovac; there is a FAD car parts factory in the city, a renowned manufacturer of the joint. A few weeks ago, a market inspection of the Republic of Serbia in New Belgrade seized a whole truck of car parts, primarily a link, which someone unauthorizedly produced and placed on the market, and not only did it, but embezzled the protection mark "FAD" by Gornji Milanovac. What it means – it is not only financial damage suffered by the Gornji Milanovac car parts factory, it endangers life; the connections are, as is known, the part of the system managed by the car. This, when I congratulate the market inspection that effectively established this, made the public know about this, because it is very important. When you sell someone a fake shirt, it's a shame, but you don't endanger anyone's life, and when you sell someone a wire and put your family in a car, and you risk your family's life, your life, and other traffickers, then you're a kamikaze on the road, a potential killer, and the most rigorous control should do everything possible to make sure that this doesn't happen in the future. This law will contribute that it does not happen or be present only in trace. I don't have the illusion that it's possible to prevent all of this from happening completely, but I'm sure it's not going to work as well as it has done so far. The next question I would especially like to talk about concerns what our esteemed colleague Milan Nikolic, a longtime executive, one of the creators of Simpo, was talking about here. When you invest in your development for years, when you invest in design, in brands, when in the best possible way, by the rules that are the rules of all the world's largest companies, you work, and then someone who, for one reason or another, is able to copy what you did, or almost copy, offers it as their product, someone who has not even paid for the design service, had no cost to protect this right, did not invest in development, there is nothing we call a director, there is no trouble, and even through the market imports components for these products, he not only unfairly competes with Simpo, he directly steals users of budget, health, social protection, pensioners, all those who are budget users, school, etc. It is therefore important that the adoption of this law create an efficient system, that this be prevented and that the perpetrators of such offences are properly punished. It is not anyway, and we should do everything to make sure that people who are seriously involved in science, art, production, design, whatever, are protected and certain that some thieves (and these are thieves, they should be called real names) are not used to what other people's achievements are and they sign it as their own and that they are making big financial resources, and that there is almost nothing or nothing more common in this country. The next question concerns what is in the field of art. We've had these problems for a long time. I'd remind myself, it might seem to someone that it doesn't matter, sometimes there were so-called. silver, gold, diamond and platinum circulations in the field of production of gramophone plates etc. I'd like to remind you that the gold circulation represented a hundred thousand sold sound carriers, a platinum circulation of 500 thousand sold sound carriers, with a corresponding tax. In the register of a country like ours it's huge money. I draw attention to the fact that we now have extraordinary artists, musical groups, who practically permanently broadcast, and no one manages to sell... Let's say Vlado Georgiev sells 30 grand, no more than 30,000 sound carriers officially. So that's not possible. It is obvious that in this area it is total chaos and this law should ensure that these money comes into the state register, that the offenders are punished, and that these people get the encouragement to create, because, however anyone realizes, they do an important social job, they have God's gift and it's not normal for someone to deal with the plagiarism of God's gift, it's simply not possible. So in this sense, it is important that we adopt the law and encourage these people to create normally, because this will solve several important issues that are open here. The next question is also important. It's about the enormous presence of far-east goods in our country, mostly from China, which has all kinds of world's most famous manufacturers and products, so I don't list them, "nitch", "bos", whatever you want. Not getting deeper into this problem why and how it happened, it didn't just happen to us, it happened to a number of countries in our environment, the state should have the strength and we need to help to arrange this area, to protect our producers from unfair and abnormal competition. It's not unfair, it's abnormal competition. So when you're practically fooling people into being something, and that's not it. And, of course, regardless of what has a very low price if they can do it let them do it without markings, they have to protect the real manufacturers and their brands. So it's not my intention to specifically talk about some of the details of this law. And other things are listed here, patents, topography of integral circuits, so that's all these things that I've already talked about, it's software. Please, in this country it is also considered that software is nothing, but that anyone has the right to copy one program, which is able to provide as a fine software tool, to provide the largest number of different operations and jobs possible. If that were easy, everyone would be a programmer. Please, in order for someone to write one program to have a higher education, to have experience, to have an excellent knowledge of different other areas, and to offer it all to the largest number of users that can benefit greatly in one package. There seems to be something about it here already, but it's very important, I remind you, at a time when personal computers didn't exist that way, when we were working on so-called. Business large machines, when we were doing programs that were in other programming languages in "cobol", "fortran", etc., there was absolute order in this; authorised hardware vendors mostly offered finished software applications that were particularly paid. It has to become a practice here and we also have to do everything we can to get people a chance to normally create, to users normally use that kind of service and to, of course, pay for it. There's a lot of other things I don't want to take up time. So, SPS MPs, for the reasons that Mr Nikolic cited and the reasons I was talking about here, because this is a way for Serbia to become a member of the World Trade Organisation faster, will vote in favour of the law. It is not only technically, it is a very important law to implement some other laws and introduce order into this area which has now been practically completely left to, conditionally speaking, resourceful people, who have thus made enormous profits. The state lost Serbia's citizens very much, all together, and we acted as an unserious and disorganised society. So in that sense, this law is important. He's not ideological, he's not political, he's a functional law, and he needs to ensure that the laws we've passed before and that's why we'll be happy to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26359	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26360	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I truly express great satisfaction that today on the agenda in the National Assembly are two laws that represent an extremely serious message of economy and to all those who participate in economic life, but also to all those who through their personal creations want to personally affirm themselves and to protect and create and all that it entails. We've had serious debates over a series of important laws in the area of justice these past two days. A number of serious criticisms were heard about the functioning of Serbia's judiciary and one of the important aspects of the discussion was criticism of efficiency. In the national strategy for judicial reform, one of the basic principles is just to potentify efficiency. The efficiency of dispute resolution is something that is absolutely a priority and something that is particularly potent by business managers, managers of companies, because any delay in the dispute, every existence of a dispute is something that in any case disturbs business and success in achieving the company's profits. Therefore, in addition to the fact that in this assembly in the previous period we have passed a number of other laws that have in some way promoted the agreement, some other kind of alternative dispute resolution, such as the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, see, and the law on arbitration is on the trail of finally promoting agreement in Serbia and thus resolving disputes, so that courts can be resolved as much as possible; all of us in the judiciary know when the case is found before a competent court how burdensome relations are and how long it takes to resolve this dispute. That's why the state's arbitration law sends a clear message to the businessmen who... And I'm convinced that very fast companies will be privatized, they're in the interest of passing this law, they're in the interest of no delay in proceedings. There were discussions here about what kind of disputes we had when it came to social enterprises. Well, it was the social capital and the representatives of social enterprises who were interested in disputing disputes, and that's why we had such a situation in the previous period, and that's why trade courts, among other things, were inactive and unsupervised. Here we heard, and it was important to hear that our external trade arbitration, part of an important judicial and legal tradition in Serbia, has made an extremely big contribution to resolving disputes and promoting the Serbian economy in terms of the attractiveness of investment. Just like this whole law, which has long been waiting for, is something that sends a clear message to not only the local public, but also to foreign investors that here, along with a number of other measures adopted by this assembly, through the Law on Economic Society, the law where the corporate tax is reduced, means everything that has affected the promotion of investment in this country, and this law on arbitration is rounding that part. I think that here there are very precise and clear conditions under which arbitration can be formed, in which the arbitration is chosen and, what is very important, how the decision is carried out. There's really a minimal court involvement, and that's a message. Of all relevant international institutions and foreign investors, the biggest criticism was in the direction of the functioning of trade courts and here is the opportunity now that through this law, through the provisions it regulates, through the fact that all agreements are being resolved, from the choice of arbitarians to the decision-making process, until commercial courts fully gain the trust of the economic public and citizens, our citizens who deal with the economy in an efficient way and the disputes are resolved. As far as the second law is concerned, it's been discussed here and there have been a lot of good discussions, I haven't noticed that one political party has more serious objections to the fact that such a law needs to be passed, despite the fact that in some other procedural laws we have certain norms to address this issue. It is important that the special law sends the state of Serbia a message that it wants in an effective way to protect intellectual property. It is this law that states Serbia, the measures provided for through the competent state authorities, enters a number of countries that have implemented the UNCITRAL model of law, which has been adopted in many states, and thus clearly says it will address all infringements of the intellectual property rights that have been spread in Serbia. We've talked a lot about it here, but the fact is that lately in Serbia, there's been an extremely widespread phenomenon of intellectual property violations, and in some cases in a very sophisticated way, where you can't recognize what is original, what is a counterfeit, that in many cases it affects the possibility of new employment in companies, that it affects and, as counterpart Baralic said, health. There is no doubt that we must, through the measures provided for here, make it stop. What is also important, human creation, creation, investment in development, what has been largely ignored in the Serbian economy and society so far, will be protected by this law as far as possible. When these two laws are seen like this and messages sent to society and the international public, they are historical laws. We have a law on arbitration, which first rounds matter, and this law on special powers to effectively protect intellectual property rights, which is something that we define clearly for the first time in this way. What remains a problem, and we've pointed out in a number of cases, is the work of inspection. The majority of complaints are coming right now when it comes to the experience of the work of inspections. It is very important that both the government and the competent ministries strengthen the capacity of the work of inspections, so that this law is effectively applied. In this case, if these capacity of work inspections are not strengthened, if the inspections do not apply the law effectively, we will not achieve the effects provided for in this law. The message sent is that Serbia wants to adequately fight all counterfeits, to ignore creation, creation and investment that individual companies make to promote their product in an adequate way. At the very end of the line, what we have done here is to raise the awareness of consumers, because this is a policy that is extremely important in the European Union and that through the law that we have adopted here we have incorporated into Serbian legislation, to offer quality to consumers, but also to strengthen consumers' awareness of what this quality is, in an adequate way here promotes and protects. I can say that the DSS will be very pleased to support these two laws and, in that sense, we call on other parliamentary groups to support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26361	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26362	Dear People's MPs, as a member of the SRS on behalf of the parliamentary group and citizens of Serbia, I would prefer that the minister of economic relations with the abroad came to the National Assembly to present a report on the work of the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad and to present positive results of the ministry's work, and in terms of reducing Serbia's payment deficit, increasing exports from Serbia, reducing imports and achieving better results for the state and all citizens of Serbia, but today we have two draft laws on the agenda and this: a draft law on arbitration and a proposal for a law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. Since these are two different areas, I don't know on what basis the promoter suggested that the debate be united, they don't have almost any touch points. But one thing that binds them is probably what the proponent means to bring together the debate on these two points of the agenda – both in one area and in the other, there is chaos, lawlessness and, in the end of the day, anarchy. When it comes to the draft law on arbitration, we have been here and many months ago, with regard to the proposal of many judicial laws in Serbia, discussing the work of trade courts, disputes, abuses, corruption, crime and the consequences of such a situation for many Serbian citizens, workers who have lost their jobs, their families. Today, however, we have a proposal for a law on arbitration to justify such a state of extremely poor working of trade courts, to abbolize the Justice Ministry, the Higher Trade Court and all trade courts in Serbia. Arbitration is a factual alternative, but should be an exception when it comes to resolving economic disputes or disputes between economic operators. However, according to the proposal of this law and the reasoning of ministers and MPs who support the so-called Government. The democratic bloc turns out that, in fact, with the adoption of this law, disputes in the economy will be resolved predominantly under this law. If the provisions of the law and the objectives that want to be achieved are looked at and how future arbitration works, start with the authorities or authorised institutions that will form arbitration or be able to form arbitration under this law, which are chambers of commerce, professional associations, even citizens' associations... As we do business chambers in Serbia, starting with the Republic Chamber of Commerce, including these regional ones, I see that they are dividing. The Chamber of Commerce in the King is divided, now and in Chačka, probably because of Velimir Ilic. What are commercial chambers now, not just at this moment, but years ago? What are they for; is it, Mr. Minister, in this business that you are doing in the Serbian government to contribute to an increase in exports, to achieve results in production, import reduction and in some way a better state in the state of Serbia? It is an institution inherited from earlier periods, from people who have spent a good part of their lives in social or other enterprises and now spend peaceful days, or years, in these chambers of commerce. But that's why, by law, they have a certain percentage of the businesses that have to be paid to them. They are in fact dealing with some statistical data and providing some information on alleged imports, exports; even in the Kingdom, I see that the Chamber of Commerce has a part that deals with prices in the royal market. Can such chambers of commerce or those that make them, in fact, in the arbitration or arbitration proceedings, determine who will be the arbiters of this law? Professional associations in the state of Serbia, honoring certain members of the association, are normally related to certain political parties. Will the Engineering Chamber of Serbia, as a professional association directly controlled by the DS, be the one to determine the arbitration and in some way affect the resolution of these disputes before arbitration? The amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party are an attempt to improve the law in some way. The passing and adoption of this law will not solve the problems that Serbian workers have, many disputes with trade courts will not be resolved. It cannot be accepted, as proposed by the provisions of this law, if a court dispute is initiated before a trade court, that arbitration can be subsequently determined. As it cannot be accepted for a natural person to be in arbitration proceedings, they can be legal entities, i.e. economic operators, in some legal business. I mentioned the chambers of commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia; whether the former president of the Chamber of Commerce Veselinovic, with his company "Galeb Group", which was one of the importers of the fiscal registers, or current President Milosavljevic, former Minister of Trade in DOS government, could be the one or the head of the entity who will dominate the implementation of this law, i.e. by granting arbitration. There is no existing situation, in this chaos and anarchy, when it comes to the state of business and economic operators and economic disputes, any possibility of changing that situation through this law. As far as efficiency is concerned and what is said to be faster and cheaper to resolve the dispute before arbitration, it is not founded, because it will also be delayed, depending on these entities which are legally stated to form arbitration. On the other hand, there is absolute freedom in determining the costs of the arbitration procedure and compensation even to the members of the arbitration council and the experts and will not be more effective, nor will disputes be resolved before arbitration bodies be resolved more quickly. As regards the second law proposed, on special powers for the effective protection of the right of intellectual property, it bothers me, firstly, that the material regulations will be applied in fact, which will apply if this law is adopted and we see that most of the bill will be accepted, are the laws adopted by the SRJ, which are actually applied and applied predominantly by the inspection bodies under the provisions of this law. As a state, we are going in the reverse process, instead of going to codification of legal regulations, we continue to adopt individual regulations, even in this part; instead of going to a codified regulation when it comes to intellectual property and that a factual team is envisaged and protected and authorised, and normally that a state should stand behind protection or authority. However, there seems to be a whole other reason why, at this point, this law is being proposed and passed. Is this because of what has been given in the light of this law, to protect the entire intellectual property or property of individuals who have greatly strengthened in recent years and who are now trying to pass this law, start from those pirates who have now become producers, distributors and others, and want to protect huge assets and absolute rights and primate in Serbia's market for the adoption of this law to be the main owners of Serbia's market. If we have looked at the provisions of the law, the objective of this law, and who will implement the provisions of the law when it comes to the protection of intellectual property, are they able, professionally and on other grounds, market inspection, construction, urban, financial and other inspections to deal with this problem? If we know the state of affairs of these inspections, are they professionally capable of protecting intellectual property? Is the Ministry of Capital Investment, headed by Velimir Ilic, with its construction and urban inspection, which is practically within or in collaboration with the urban mafia, capable of protecting intellectual property? This does not make any sense, nor does it make any sense to give additional powers to these inspections, as well as to other inspections, to work one far more complex and subtler job, and not to be able and to refuse to carry out material regulations when it comes to building, protecting general urban plans, detailed urban plans, regulation plans, issuing works on construction, building permits, monitoring construction, issuing useful permits, and all the more so when it comes to the work of construction and urban inspection. Can the health inspection be concerned with the protection of intellectual property or the protection of medicinal products of authorised manufacturers, when health inspectors are, as a rule, lawyers? That is correct, that Minister Stankovic is the head of the pharmaceutical mafia, and it seems that every minister or every ministry has its own or is divided into the powers of the mafia in Serbia and they do not interfere with each other in the parts that these mafias have...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26363	I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26364	There's in every ministry or ministry or area that the ministry covers, has its mafia, the Ministry of Sports has its mafia, the Ministry of Finance doesn't know, what more mobs probably have...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26365	I'm really asking you that such an announcement is not appropriate for this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26366	Serbian citizens are now exposed in every place and in every situation only to fraud and deception. Just watch when you travel to Serbia, we have at every bus stop a ticket counter at the Serbian lottery, and we know that the Serbian lottery is under the direct patronage of the Ministry of Finance, the governor of the National Bank and all others. This will probably be the subject of arbitration, as someone's already throwing it out of the DSS Parliament Club. As a MP, I doubt the implementation of one law and another, in efficiency, that the situation will change when it comes to implementing the law on arbitration, and in particular that something more important will change when it comes to the protection of intellectual property rights. It will likely succeed through the achievement of the interests of those who, as I mentioned, are related to pirates and those who have now become producers, who will now own certain televisions; they will be protected by the implementation of this law, and there will still be chaos and anarchy when it comes to the production and transport of counterfeit goods on the Serbian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26367	The Messenger of the people is George Mamula, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radisha Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26368	Both bill proposals are very good. They're eight to ten years late, and chaos and anarchy from this area have been inherited. So there have been opportunities in the past decade for those who have violated intellectual property rights to be prosecuted, so they are not prosecuted. I was waiting to see what you'd do while you were in power. So, the bill's proposals are very good, and I'd like to speak first of all about the law on special powers to protect intellectual property rights more effectively. In order to get closer to the World Trade Organisation, the People’s Republic of China had to change its attitude to intellectual property. The biggest market, following several warnings, began to change their relationship to everything and they set up their legislative area in this respect, and they also began to pursue infringements of the rights of protected property, so that the state, as one of the most powerful in the world, set the best example for all others who should follow in this regard. I think this bill is very good and will contribute to improving the internal credibility and business credibility in the country, that it will be a very good message to both the world and the creators of our country. Piratery or piratery with protected intellectual property rights here takes a long time, so I think these penalties that are prescribed are very good and that those who have violated the protected intellectual property rights will come to their senses. I think the fines could have been bigger, but if the inspection bodies are effective, I think we'll be able to seduce the order very soon here. When it comes to the bill of arbitration, I think the proposal is very good and all those who participated in the work of arbitration, were MPs or arbiters, can better recognise the provisions of this bill. The law is indeed in line with modern solutions, allowing for smooth procedures, in line with the regulation of economic relations and economic disputes, there are no obstacles that can adversely affect the parties to the dispute, so that it is indeed for the arbitration and their knowledge and conscience to resolve disputes before arbitration. The solutions we've had in the Law on Procedural Procedure so far have not been good, and I think these proposals are improving. Therefore, this law will cease to apply to the 31st chapter of the Law on Prosecution. I think that this law is in line with European solutions, so also in terms of procedures, with regard to the exclusion of judges, i.e. the arbitration officer, it is very clear that basic complaints can refer to significant infringements of proceedings, infringements of procedures and facts, so that I think that over-burdened trade courts, which have done so far, will be relieved of these disputes and that the chances of these disputes being resolved will be opened. Nowhere with amendments to the law on arbitration is all disputes in the world resolved quickly, but these are the preconditions that arbitration disputes are resolved more quickly under this procedure and that is why I believe that these proposals of the law should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26369	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people, Goran Rakovac, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on arbitration represents only one more in a series of laws that must be passed, but will not be applied, because this will be done selectively, when the need to meet the interests of powerful companies and individuals in Serbia is indicated. What is the practice in Europe at this time cannot be adequately applied to us, because in the European Union countries there will certainly not be scandalous corruption affairs, the threat of state property, the carrying of suitcases full of money to civil servants, and that is what happens to us. Now someone through the arbitration court will bypass so far's court cases, all with the help of the state, the arbiters and the influential lobbyists in the economy. Therefore, as an excuse in the argument, it is said that the costs will be quite reduced, that in this way positive competition will be created between the judiciary and arbitration, and most importantly, the government says, the status of foreign persons involved in our economy will be improved. This law reminds some of the laws passed by the ruling coalition, which similarly interfered with the judicial authorities. Let's just think of mediation, peaceful work dispute resolution, and here's the arbitration. A person who arbitration in a dispute, as shown in Article 19, can also be a foreign citizen. Also, Article 21 assumes that the future arbiter is at least a little thrifty, so before his appointment, he will admit that he is biased, subjective, prone to fraud, which will affect parties in the dispute or the competent court not to name him after all. Calling on someone's good will to give himself an evaluation to qualify for the place as an arbiter is an absurd thing. Does this mean that according to Article 19, where it says that the arbiter can be any natural person who is able to do business, that he puts in the same rank an arbiter who can be anyone, even a stranger, and a judge, say, a litigator who's been elected in a regular procedure and who's been through everything that all judges go through when they're elected? This is well seen in Article 64(1), which reads - the domestic arbitration decision has the power of the domestic judicial decision. So, the arbiter's decision and the court's decision are placed in the same plane. If the state wants to apply this law, let it begin first, and this law gives it an opportunity, since domestic and international arbitration are covered here. For example, let's take the cements that were first sold in the privatisation process in 2002. It was state property. In Article 5(2), the right is conferred on the State and its authorities and institutions to initiate arbitration in order to protect that property. Why do I quote cementists? Because foreign companies are involved and because of the privatisation of Cementara in Popovac at Paracino in public, a major corruption affair has surfaced. If the official authorities of the Serbian state, such as the Ministry of State and the Prosecutor's Office, investigate Nemanje Kolesar, Janjusevic and others who then took high state functions, for receiving a bribe of two million dollars and for privatising a priest's cement, is that sufficient to signal even to international arbitration authorities to respond? Mr. Minister, you'll probably fall on this first exam, because you won't do anything when it comes to cementers and what was happening around them. So, you grumble when it comes to foreign companies, although the state is damaged by the boastful behaviour of few persons mentioned, otherwise prominent members of the Democratic Party. Don't hide behind a tender, transparency, that sort of thing. If someone paid that amount of money to the then-President of the Management Board of the New Popovac cement factory to Negativity Kolesar and others, then you are obliged, on behalf of the Serbian government, to cast it all out into the open. If you do not do so, then you do not protect the interests of Serbian citizens, who are aware of the fact that in some way you are misleading them again, and you will quickly see to it that there is an ever-increasing parliamentary election. If we add the fact that 35 million marks were offered for the Beocina cement factory in 2000 more than was sold after two years, then you are really given the opportunity to put yourself in the protection of the property of the Serbian state, which allows you to Article 5 of this bill. But it doesn't seem to occur to you. There you can do anything, stick to the monopoly by mutual agreement of three cements, make up working groups that are mostly assigned disabled workers, can be exploited infinitely by natural resources, can burn everything and everything under the alternative waste company, etc. Why this law? For small non-payments of need and complaint by individual associations of citizens. The people have no bread to eat, they search the containers, and the state is worried about how to sell another Serbian head. Labus failed to resign after the affair with "Knjiza Milos" and "Dunone", after "Erikson", after "the affair of the suitcase", related to the NBS, and that's moral. That's why he resigned because one honorable Serb, Ratko Mladic, didn't fly his head off his shoulders. And it's for this power morally. The law also provides an opportunity for the state to react when it comes to the exploitation of natural resources, water, mineral raw materials, etc. Recently on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was also the proposal for a mining law, in which we could read on page 5 that the payment of compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials was foreseen by previous laws, but was not implemented. This means that Serbia's budget remained cut by tens of millions of euros between 2002 and 2006. How much is lost by spent raw materials for the needs of the cement industry, for production such as ceramics, bricks, there are quarrys, metals, lead and zinc, gravel exploitation, etc. Let's not forget "Nexa Group" from Croatia, which is possessed by Jelen Do. Our mining minister has sat on his hands since 2004 until now, so full of two years, knowing that the fee is not charged properly. Now you, Minister, if you intend to enforce this law, because here it is a classic robbery of the property of the Republic of Serbia, or natural goods, initiate arbitration proceedings. If the arbitration procedure is conducted at international level for "Mobtel", for "Gallenika", then get involved on these issues as well. The fact that when making purchase contracts with foreign companies was not meant for individual clauses, by chance or on purpose, should rightly be the subject of arbitration. Such contracts were made by those on whose account hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars were poured into the Seashels. Yesterday, their former party councilman shook on stage in downtown Belgrade. Did he get electrocuted or stabbed on a rusty nail? It's not known. Today, they are not in Serbia's political life, but have left a criminal trail behind, and many Serbian citizens who have lost their jobs have threatened existence and what such a sure future.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26371	The People's MP Goran Rakovic has the word, and then the National MPs Momir Markovic, then Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I think it's time to return to the agenda and the laws that this assembly is to discuss today. We've had a little nail pain, and I don't know what we've been doing, but today it's still on the agenda of arbitration and intellectual property. As the minister said in his opening statement, arbitration, through the term of selected courts, was not unknown to our legal system in some past time, but it is the fact that as such it did not live and that it did not give the appropriate effects. On the other hand, many of our economic operators had to negotiate arbitration by entering into business relations with foreign companies, so very often there was a degree of uncertainty in the negotiation of certain clauses and in the resolution of disputes brought before international arbitration. There are relatively few people in our country who know this matter and who are able to perform before arbitration. The passing of such a comprehensive law, which will sum up the whole of this matter and give it as it was given in one place, is the real move of this ministry and this government, because it was more than necessary to pass this regulation. As a result of this behavior over the past period, we had overcrowded, above all, trade courts, which, on the one hand, could not have been able to resolve all the disputes that were brought before them, and if we had such a law, if we had developed arbitration, numerous disputes, where very often there were not many controversial things, could have been resolved faster and more effectively. The matter is quite broad and it is good that this law covers complete arbitration, beginning with its concept, through the authorities that need to implement, the way these bodies are formed and elected, in the end, until the decision of arbitration is made. It's a good thing the accent is on domestic arbitration, not just international. I would, however, refer to chapter II, to the arbitration agreement, since many of the provisions contained in this law come from this chapter. In fact, the arbitration agreement itself represents the development of the principle of volunteering, which is one of the essential principles in this matter, because the arbitration of the party itself is negotiated. So it is not apriori imposed, it is not part of those regular courts, it is not part of the procedure that must be followed, but is left to the parties whether arbitration as such, organised under this law, will choose to resolve their disputes or not. So the parties' arbitration agreement trusts the arbitration court to settle their disputes. There may be a dispute here that already exists, and there may also be a future dispute. For these reasons, the way to negotiate arbitration is envisaged so that it can be negotiated as so-called. the arbitration clause in the contract on basic legal work which the economic operators, for example, do conclude among themselves, where they usually determine in the last provisions the jurisdiction of arbitration to resolve their dispute in a specific case. The parties may also agree to arbitration for all their future disputes that may arise in their business relations, since very often economic operators enter into different cases of gender-stricken co-operation from which different types of misunderstandings and agreements may arise. The arbitration may be agreed by an arbitration clause in the course of the negotiation, when a contract is drawn up on a basic legal basis, but can also be negotiated by a special contract without being contained in this business contract. That in itself implies that a subsequent arbitration agreement is possible. On the one hand, we can arrange arbitration for future disputes, but also after the very disputed relationship between certain entities, if they wish to resolve their dispute, rather than to go to a regular court, to a trade court, they can subsequently enter into a special agreement on arbitration and trust the solution to the dispute to resolve the arbitration court. It follows from all of this that the arbitration agreement itself is a formal agreement, that it requires one special form, which is quite logical, since arbitration is primarily negotiated between economic operators, although as we can see, neither natural persons nor states, its bodies are excluded, and therefore Article 12 of this Law provides that the arbitration agreement must be concluded in writing. However, given the degree of development of society and business relations that we have today, the law has, in further consideration of the written form of the conclusion of the arbitration agreement, recognised the legal fact of some other forms of conclusion of this agreement, thus, recognising, for the sake of example, the property of the arbitration agreement in writing and, if that agreement has been concluded by exchange of messages through means of communication which are well developed today, which must provide written evidence of the party's agreement, whether or not the parties have signed those messages. The arbitration agreement shall also be deemed to have been concluded if the parties to the written contract have called for a second letter containing the arbitration agreement, if the purpose of this call for the arbitration agreement is to become an integral part of the agreement. Finally, it is considered that there is an arbitration agreement and if, in writing, the prosecutor initiates an arbitration dispute, and the defendant in response to the appeal does not dispute, explicitly accepts the arbitration, and if he does not accepts it in writing, he may agree with the arbitration and thus recognise the jurisdiction of the arbitration court, and if, in the arbitration hearing, he declares on the record that he is taking part in the arbitration proceedings, and prior to the release and prior discussion of the case of the dispute itself. Therefore, if it does not point out that the arbitration agreement does not exist, that is to say, if it does not challenge the jurisdiction of the arbitration court. What is also important here to point out is that the arbitration agreement remains in force and in the event of an indemnity of the contract, in the case of a cesium, unless explicitly specified. In this way, it is possible to carry out further legal dealings with the concessions of certain claims or the whole contract, and that the arbitration agreement contained in the basic contract is not touched, unless it is explicitly stated by that original arbitration agreement. Finally, the relationship between arbitration and regular court should also be mentioned. Namely, the court to which the appeal has been brought in the legal case under the arbitration agreement shall report to the Court of Justice without jurisdiction and dismiss the appeal against the party, by the fact that the appeal must be brought to the court, or submitted before the hearing on the case itself, unless the court finds that the arbitration agreement is clearly void. In that case, in order to protect and preserve legal certainty, in order for the party to be able to protect its right to dispute, the court will in that case not be notified to the competent, regardless of the case. The ordinary court, the trade court, most often facing this issue, may, before the arbitration proceedings are initiated or during the proceedings itself, adopt provisional measures to ensure that a party appearing before an arbitration tribunal is sought, and that the provision of this member is applied when the arbitration agreement relates to arbitration of which is located in another State. Finally, I would mention once again that we have one law that has completely circled this matter, which is written in a very clear language, summed up because there are no extra provisions, more than clear. In addition to the international arbitration we have so far, we now have a legal regulation that allows for development and our domestic arbitration. In this way, it is expected that there will be a discharge of trade courts, above all, and thus a more effective judiciary. I therefore believe that this law should be supported in the text it is, in which it came before this assembly and the Democratic Party of Serbia and its MPs will vote for this law in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26373	Thank you, Mr. Rakovac. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic, then the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic, and the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are two other legislative projects that, if this government sees a voting day, which I completely doubt, because I think it will fall apart long before the vote, and if there is a majority, it will be adopted. These laws will go right to the shelf next to all those laws and this last law that's on the agenda, which is called the ski resort law. The IPR Act, it seems, has existed so far. All we had to do was apply it strictly. The biggest and dirtiest theft, the biggest thief, is stealing intellectual property. In some past periods, many have smuggled themselves into intellectual elites, and since they are unable to create their own work, they have mostly been involved in copying. The Serbian Radical Party has always been a bitter fighter against those who deal with plagiarism. After all, the president of the SRS Professor Vojislav Seselj has exposed one of the biggest plagiarists, the dirtiest and most defiant plagiarist that has ever been discovered, there are probably more, but there are no such ones I suppose are not, the man who stole from the dead author's work and signed them. His name is Stevan Liliæ. I'm afraid that the previous government has arrested the thieves involved in the theft of intellectual property, that on October 5th and the "buldozer of the revolution" there would be no, because many at the head of the column in front of Veli's bulldozer would be in jail. We discovered, he discovered Professor Vojislav Seselj plagiarist, and today he teaches at law school. I wonder if you're up for law enforcement, and the law existed, which you haven't arrested so far. There's also a toothpick in this law, I don't know exactly what member he's in, where he says – can the carrier, the owner of intellectual property report, the citizen can't, the inspector can if he thinks there's a plagiarizer to be dented and discovered. What if the carrier is dead? What if Professor Dr. Lazo M. Kostic is dead and Stevan Liliæ overwrites his entire book and signs himself? And today, you have this intellectual at law school and today he's somewhere in one of these political parties or quasi-political parties that made up that DOS. Therefore, it was much smarter to have this law applied so far than to write a new one, especially as this new law is worse than the previous one. We're in a position to protect trade marks, names, stamps, etc. In this market you opened, you literally opened, according to the West, we find stamps where only the name is fine, products are pure forgeries. After all, the whole textile industry from one of our cities produced both "lefties" and all kinds of stamps and now that they've stepped on their feet, when they've opened up factories, of course now they need to protect that production they now have, because it's their intellectual property. That's what Mr. Cetrovic, an MP for the SRS, was talking about. Product protection – so the Germans protected us from the brand of Serbian plum, Slovenians ajvar; therefore, typical Serbian products were protected precisely because there was no law similar to this, not this but similar. And, finally, according to this law, one of the MPs asks me if I have read the collected works of his party president and one of the ministers, and the summated parts of that minister, the summated works of some other ministers, for Mr Parivodic, cannot tell because we still have no information that he has such summed up works, the summation of these ministers is so much that all police inspectors can't read how many they've collected for these two years since they've been in power. As for the law on arbitration, and from this law comes a clear message – gentlemen of power, what you stole, you can't anymore. As long as you're still in power, you can't take it anymore. After all, this whole affair about trade courts is based on major crime, on a big thief, on a major robbery of Serbian property. As far as arbitration is concerned, arbitration has existed so far. We didn't have a law on arbitration, did we, Minister? So far there has been international arbitration. I remember, I worked at the Energogas, and when we had a dispute with the Mol company in Hungary for the transport of natural gas, the arbitration from Zurich did the job, and arbitration should exist. However, the big question is what will happen to these arbitration councils or authorized arbitration tribunals, or what they will already be called in this law or some new law. Article 5 says: "Any natural and legal person can contract arbitration, including the state, its organs, institutions and businesses in which it has property participation. "It may be okay, but Article 19 says: "Arbitar can be any natural person who is businessly capable, regardless of nationality." Well, I'm sorry, but if it is a dispute involving participants in Serbia's territory, then it must be an arbitration in Serbia's territory, it cannot -- regardless of nationality. For according to this, Agim Cheku will also be able to contact you to be your arbiter. And what power it would not surprise me if he accepted it. I must leave time and time for fellow Serbian Radical Party MPs. When there's a debate on details, when they're amended to these laws, then we'll say a lot more. I apologize to the SRS for taking a minute more, because we shared that time, but I think they'll appreciate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26375	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The Messenger of the people, Petar Cvetkovic, and the Messenger of the People, Verica Radet, have a word. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's easy to be an opposition, especially when the spoken word for this speaker is not answered, so that means you can talk about anything, but I will try to bring my presentation into line with the agenda and I will talk about the laws on the agenda. We can use these laws in any way, and as the previous esteemed speaker used to propagate some political views, problematic ones, but we can talk about laws with a purely legal, social, economic and economic aspect, especially the law on arbitration and even the law on special powers in order to effectively protect the right of intellectual property, which, in my view, is even more significant at this point. I will say a few words about the arbitration law, although the DSS parliamentary group and the DSS MPs, my distinguished predecessors, have given sufficient explanations and arguments about this law and have indicated why the DSS will support this law and why it should be passed at this time, and this is also explained in an adequate manner and very comprehensively and present minister. Ladies and gentlemen, arbitration existed, as my predecessor said, and arbitration will exist. It is not established by this law of arbitration, but it is the fact that this law on arbitration is about to be arranged, or one law will lay down all the rules and procedures and rules under which arbitration will take place. By doing so, the relevant provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure will cease to apply. The relevant provisions of some other laws, which concern the way and procedure of arbitration, and the enforcement of arbitration decisions, will also cease to apply. This very important issue will be resolved in one place, in one law, almost entirely, regardless of what this bill on arbitration calls, especially in the area of enforcement of decisions of the arbitration court, to existing laws, let's say the law on enforcement. There was arbitration, I would remind you, decades ago, and at a time of socialism, that is, Communism, at the time of the SFRY, especially at the time of the existence of that Law of Joint Work. At that time, arbitration was envisaged, i.e. the chosen or elected court. Why chosen - probably because of the fact that it is not a court and that when the court is said to be elected, it would provide for the existence of a court, i.e. an institution, so parties, or contractors, could choose which of the courts. It would therefore be the case of the elected court, but the legislator found a new word that is the least Serbian, perhaps a new Serbian, where he said "selected court", which essentially avoided use, even in the Law on Joint Labour used the term of arbitration with the same meaning. So, although at that time in the Law of Associated Labour, Edward Cardell, Titus and other communists existed as an institute, arbitration existed long before these and this communism. The arbitration was underdeveloped and most relations, i.e. all disputed relations were resolved through special courts or regular courts. In this case, through special courts, through economic courts, current trade courts, which basically, with the existence of dominant social property, created a procedure that was not unjust, but too long and which, when it came to its end, had just lost the purpose of the existence or essence of the dispute. In the end, there was a loss of interest in the initiation of the dispute or the resolution of the disputed relationship, as a solution to a disputed relationship would arise and many more disputed relations would be caused. This Act on the arbitration of the Contracting Party, the economic operators, that is to say, the Contracting Parties are free to prescribe their free will rules of procedure, the duration and compensation of the person to whom the arbitration tribunals, or elected judges, will be. So there is very little restriction on the contractors, i.e. there is very little restriction on the persons entering arbitration. Therefore, it is necessary and certain that all arbitration disputes will last much shorter than court disputes, that all contractors, i.e. in most cases, economic operators who have come to a dispute, or produced some dispute, will very quickly resolve their disputed relationship through arbitration, that they will be interested in a quick solution, because it is the interest of their capital, i.e. those economic operators. I purposely point out the economic operators because, in my view, arbitration is just the most important thing for economic life, i.e. for economic operators and for the adequate development of economic relations, and I would say freely that further development of the entire economic relations in the state of Serbia. Therefore, economic operators will choose arbitration whenever they have the opportunity to choose and to quickly resolve their disputed relationship. However, economic operators and natural persons, as foreseen by the law, have so far had the possibility, according to current regulations, to use the arbitration court, i.e. arbitration, either domestically or domestically. Thus, we have come to a large number of situations where domestic economic operators, precisely because of the lack of regulation of any relationship with the arbitration proceedings and the ambiguity of certain regulations, and probably because of the person of the arbitration panel, or the elected judge, have entrusted many of their disputed relations to foreign arbitration courts, or to foreign arbitration, which is unnecessary and also products to this economy and to this country unnecessary costs, and these disputed relations can be successfully resolved in the country as well. Therefore, by adopting this law – whose more serious dispute from the point of view of any social relations, whether rights, legal practice or theory, was not – we will speed up the particular interest of foreign investors to invest, to invest additional funds in this development element of the Serbian economy, i.e. investors, whether domestic or foreign, will be more confident that they will be able to protect their capital, and this law on arbitration enables, therefore, undermining, the decision of the elected court, i.e. arbitration, whether domestic or foreign, to carry out a regular court in the executive procedure. Therefore, the law on arbitration, as well as the law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, should be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26377	Replica due to misreading, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26378	So, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I was saddened by Mr. Cvetkovic when he said he was very hard to be in power, it's easy for the opposition, etc. I've come to cry. If I wasn't in this room, I'd probably do it. Why don't you, Mr Cvetkovic, torture yourself so much, why don't you cheer us up from the opposition and the people of Serbia -- resign, call the elections, and let's go and let someone else torture you. Mr Cvetkovic, you have spent a little irrationally: one law -- one board of directors, one law -- one Genex, one law -- one Belgrade Fair, one law -- one other public enterprise. Increased appetites for coalition partners, and you didn't have enough public enterprises to share, because we were a country that was under sanctions for 10 years, so these public enterprises didn't even develop, the banks didn't develop, so you had to give the whole bank one or two laws to vote, and a lot of laws require the EU. There's one more thing, Mr. Cvetkovic: why didn't you arrest Stevan Lilic, you've been in power for six years. Professor Vojislav Seselj wrote a book called "Podli, dirty plagiarist Stevan Lilić", which says that the paragraph is both the one and the one on the side and the one prescribed from the basic part of Professor Laza M. Kostic, the dead author. Why didn't you prove that you were going to fight plagiarists, not when your tycoons got rich on plagiarists and forgeries, now their property (because they made a cobajagi some brand) and the name should be protected. Mr. Cvetkovic, call the elections, take that burden off your backs, and the citizens of Serbia will be easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26379	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26380	Mr. Markovic, what can I say to you besides you asking us to bring down our government? The opposition's job is to criticise and bring down, and it's our job to pass such successful and good laws, to make it possible for citizens to improve. On the other hand, times of collective arrest have long passed. The last is the one you call upon at the time of "Sabre. " The democratic state will arrest individually, according to a procedure prescribed for specific actions, by procedure, and that is a reflection of democratic states, a reflection of the successful and democratic governments. The election will be by law at four years, or sooner, if the one who calls them does so, and I don't call the election. I agree with the procedures of the Republic Government and support their draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26381	We know the election's being called by the president of the assembly. Mr. Markovicu, you are not calling, but remembers, testifies, knows well, you are speaking very seriously as serious people. So this is just a well-intentioned exchange of views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26382	Mr. Cvetkovic, I can't figure out what this collective arrest of Stevan Lilic is. Speaking of arrests, let's mention something else. What's the difference between "Sabre" and what you're doing today? The only thing they've been arresting is living people, and you're arresting calendars, arresting bees all over the valley. As General Lukic surrendered to you in pajamas and slippers hospitalized, he went to the airport and dressed him up, you bought a suit from the Zekstra Zekstra company. So there's no difference between you and those since 2000. You only differ by the number of shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26383	Thank you. I didn't realize it with shoes and pajamas, please, I don't have to understand, it's okay. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. I am not commenting, but I am taking care of the implementation of the order and the Rules of Procedure, and I am using a specific way of talking to MPs. As you can see, they support it. The Messenger of the People is the Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the people, Milet Poscuric, and the Messenger of the people, Vojislav Milajić. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26384	I would like first of all to express my satisfaction with the fact that the SRS parliamentary group has an educational impact on the MPs of tomorrow's majority and individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, Minister Parivodic, you have made a mistake in the Assembly Hall, you in good interest, and I mean this part of the Assembly Hall that adopted the agenda. You've figured out that these two laws we're talking about today don't have any touch points, they're not, in accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be mutually conditioned or shall be linked to each other. You, thinking we'd discuss these items separately on the agenda, spoke first of all about one law, and only to intervene talked about another law. This is not an objection to you, but to the praise that you know better the Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly, but to the messengers who have brought it. Here today, however, we are talking about two completely different draft laws, grandmothers and frogs, when it comes to the law on arbitration and the law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. The MPs of the SRS have expressed our principled views. Why did I say at the beginning that the SRS parliamentary group was educational? First, because, Minister, you, too, in your opening statement, and also some fellow MPs on this side, have expressed your position on the Law on Prosecution in the part where this law did not rightly regulate arbitration, and that is exactly what the MPs of the SRS asked for. So, if by any chance your colleague Stojkovic had then listened to us, then you would not have the obligation to do this this way today. Also, as far as the term in the Law of Prosecution is concerned, the court has been elected, and we have intervened here in amendment. We also asked Minister Stojkovic and the assembly majority not to introduce Ustaška hrvatski novosto into the laws. The "chosen" is the new word of the Ustasha Croatian language. Just to be clear, because some colleagues, I see, were here in a dilemma about it. You, Minister, also said, among other reasons why it is necessary to pass a special law on arbitration, and that because of the ineffectiveness of our judiciary, you said so. I really feel sorry for this Minister Stojkovic, as all his colleagues interfered with his work, sometimes you, once Dinkic and him at least remain to deal with the judiciary. However, here were the words, in the context of this poor work of the judiciary, about the poor work of trade courts that are most important when it comes to this part that is now regulated by this law on arbitration. Of course, we agree with that. A colleague here said this law was seven, eight to ten years late. He also spoke about the poor work of trade courts. Just to remind that fellow Serbian public that the President of the Trade Court has been arrested and that he is the president of the five-October changes. So he's your handiwork. He's been arrested for a series of abuses, a large number of crimes, and I wouldn't talk about him right now. Something else is interesting. The other day, Minister Stojkovic, on a television show, with such a mild smile, concluded that Goran Kljajevic is still the president of the court, because there is no legal opportunity to resolve. That is not true, because in this assembly no one has initiated the procedure for the resolution of Goran Kljajevic, and I am not going to talk about who has the right and the possibility, because now there is something else on the agenda. Let me just point out that those who try to abuse you and criminal acts put you on someone else's soul. It's just for the sake of clarity. When it comes to the law on arbitration, we have made our fundamental remarks through amendments. There are a number of amendments, and it seems to me that you would have to adopt them, because they may be more technical and legal regulation of the law than something changes the essence. Among other things, in Article 5, you predicted that any natural and legal person could contract arbitration, etc., not to read until the end. I don't know where you draw that possibility that a natural person can do that, because arbitration disputes are probably disputes from mutual business relationships between companies. I think you've got something wrong with that. Also, in Article 6(2), you have provided for permanent arbitration institutions and who can establish them all: among other things, citizens' associations. This is too wide and can lead to abuse, unnecessary advertising of certain associations of citizens. I mean, above all, some NGOs, NGOs and associations of citizens working against the interests of Serbia and Serbia's national interests. I am sure, Minister, that you agree that we are putting Natasa Kandić, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Sonja Biserko in that group, etc. Also, for the first time I see this formulation in Article 7 where you say – state court, etc.; not to read, when we talk about details, then we will talk about it in more detail. I'm interested in what is the stateless court in Serbia. I think it's more appropriate here and more legally normal to stand - a court of law. We also suggested that Article 11. You're erasing the bill because you're telling this Article 11 that the arbitration agreement can be concluded even if the dispute has already been brought to court. This, according to the Serbian Radical Party, is the devaluation of courts and jurisdiction of courts. I think that, like this last position of Article 12, it should be deleted for the same reasons. In Article 17, in paragraph 2, you say, "If a dispute is to be resolved by an individual arbitration officer, it is agreedly appointed by the parties", and within what time period, etc. If that authority does not have or does not do so, the appointment shall be carried out by the competent court. This is also, according to our assessment, not good, because we think that arbitration is organised as permanent arbitration institutions and this ad hoc solution is not good, nor will it contribute to what your intention is when you propose this law. In accordance with this, the position of Article 3, where you said that if the parties did not agree differently, the arbitration panel shall decide on the exemption of the arbitration panel, as well as in Article 17. In Article 28, you wrote, or suggested a completely unnecessary position 3. where you say that the decision of the arbitration body to declare a zero contract containing the arbitration clause does not entail the futility of that clause. This, Minister, is unnecessary. It's beautifully regulated by attitude 2. So I'm thinking of Article 28. In paragraph 2, this section is fully regulated and we think that we should not only have more members and that it would be more extensive, it does not mean that it is better. Something that really cannot be accepted, which is contained in Article 49(2), you say the arbitration court can make a decision based on justice and justice. Minister, in general and in this broad form of law, you will admit that at the very least it is inappropriate. The arbitration court can make a decision under the law, and on the basis of justice and justice, it really opens up such possibilities of abuse, of different interpretations, of misreading. We don't think that's supposed to stay in this law. Furthermore, when it comes to the draft law on special powers for effective protection of intellectual property rights, an uncomplicated title, Minister, I don't know if it associated you with any instructions, not the law, because I do. That's the essence of the law. What would be the most important in this law? I will speak individually, but I have the impression that there is no State interest in the protection of intellectual property rights in the application of this law. Somehow, you've left everything too much to an individual, someone who's potentially threatened by intellectual property, but we think the state has to get involved more seriously, and I'm going to say now and how. We'll come to official duty and private. So, in Article 2, you did, I believe, one failure, and I'm sure you'll correct it: "The provisions of this law apply to the production, transport, use and maintenance of goods and the provision of services," and that's where you should say - and the use of copyright, "that violate intellectual property rights". He now spoke of Moma Markovic's copyright, about Laza M. Kostic, about the falsification of Stevan Lilić, but this is not an arbitrary story, but really Stevan Lilić was declared a plagiarist by the Supreme Court, so he is a proven dirty plagiar, Stevan Lilić. That's why it would be good if things like this didn't happen to us, to warn the law. In Article 6, I also think, Minister, that this is a random failure or you haven't read what your services have done, because I can't believe you've left out important ministries. This is where you wrote and predicted in article 6, which is the authority within the meaning of this law to work and you listed certain ministries, that I don't waste time reading them, but it's amazing that you left out, say, the Ministry of Education and Sports and the Ministry of Science. We think it's necessary that these two ministries are also inspecting the application of this law. consult, you'll see I'm right. Article 8 continues to Article 6 and should also be foreseen, especially if you accept the amendment to Article 6, then you must also follow Article 8, where we have also provided for the work of an educational inspection in the use of professional publications, because we do not see which other inspection could be in control here, but just an educational inspection. After Article 9, we think that a new member should have been added, where we would have included the Ministry of Science and Technology, which would also be inspecting the use of professional publications confirming copyright. So, it's just the development of the 6th article where we predicted this inspection. Now you've said that acting on official duty is governed by Article 12. We have suggested that in the position of Article 12, after the second point, in order to complete and complete this procedure, add another point. Here you are talking about the competent authority, if it directly determines that the right has been violated, and then he is officially in charge, we are also proposing a warning measure for infringement of the right of intellectual property. It's over, and it's always necessary in all these jobs. So, both for efficiency and for the response of the state authority, because of the possible reaction of the one whose intellectual right has been violated. In Article 15, a legal and technical correction is also necessary, as Article 15 says, "The right holder is obliged to, at the request of the competent authority which temporarily seized the goods" etc. We thought that's where we should say - or determined another abuse. Therefore, as soon as it determines any abuse of intellectual property, the right holder is obliged to, in order to determine the infringement of the right of intellectual property, supply the information without delay, etc. Once again, according to one of the remarks I made to a member before this, in Article 16, where the competent authority, at the request of the rightholder, finds that the right of intellectual property has been violated, etc., and then you say – temporarily subtracts and retains goods, or products that are the subject, and we think that it should stand – and professional publications, because it is a little harsh professional publications to call goods, products. It is essentially that, but we think it would be more appropriate for it to be more subtle. Furthermore, the same applies to Article 17, but not to waste any time on that, we'll talk in detail. Article 18 is about acting on a request, so what should be the requirement, and then we added another point, which is the data based on which the competent authority can identify the work or content that violates intellectual property rights. Now we have something that we will not agree on, which refers to the costs, Articles 21 and 22. You said in Article 21 in the first sentence: "The applicant requests from Article 16 of this Act", and this is a request for treatment, "bears the costs incurred in relation to the conduct of the law. "We have proposed to you here, Minister, to add to the extension of this attitude – if it is found that no intellectual property rights have been violated. You force the applicant to bear the costs, and in the end it is determined that his right of property has been violated, you force him not to fight for his right of property. With that in mind, it's an article 22 that we think should be deleted, because this is how a formalized member of 22 encourages piracy. For what is the essence of this article - who has no money cannot fight for his intellectual property. You say when applying for intellectual property protection he has to lay down a means of security, etc. You know, someone here was talking about disk piracy, CDs, etc. I don't see the problem because, unfortunately, a large number of escalating artists are consciously engaged in piracy, and they will never personally submit a request to you. That's why we thought it was supposed to be the competent authority. I'll explain that to you when I get to Article 24. Article 22 is problematic because of people who work in creation, who write publications, books, etc. It's a wave of people who don't have money. Someone can get their hands on that handwriting and publish it as a plagiarizer, and he doesn't have the money to protect himself. I think that's where we'd have to make sure, anyway, that this category is protected, because these people deserve to be protected in this House. The extension of this story is Article 24(2) where you said that the competent authority, in the notice referred to in Article 1(1), calls on the holder of the right to open proceedings with the court within 15 days. We think that the competent authority must initiate proceedings at the court, and this one to appear later as an intruder. To go back to these CDs and disks that are sold on every corner. That's what those who betray them do. It's in the interest of the singer to sell as many of his CDs as possible, not to pay the state taxes, to share a deal with that pirate who cuts them and sells them on the street. The state has to stand there in the right way to protect intellectual property, to have the state initiate the procedure, not to wait for Leka Brena to initiate the procedure and not because she and Dinkic are importing pirate disks into Serbia. Then what is the essence of this inspector's work? He's going to go and write a record, take things away, and he shows up on another corner with other things. It's not a good solution. We'll talk more when we talk about the details of this law. In this regard, members of 25 and 26 are also members. In the matter of criminal provisions, we have not gone through the amendments, nor in the principle of debate, although we think it is our principled position, no matter what the works are, that this government, through the laws, imposes too many penalties. It needs to be done more preventively and to create a general environment, but that's your attitude and we don't want to get involved in it. In the end, Minister, since you have applauded here all your colleagues who have said that they will support your law or that you have given them your hand to congratulate, as you can see, I have given you very well-intentioned and reasoned views, and I expect you to applaud me, even though I will not vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26385	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. I apologize to Mr. Poscurica, because Angelkovic showed up in the meantime, and he was in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26386	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was time for one and another law to appear in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Both are necessary, but I'll say a few things that I think are necessary. When it comes to the law on arbitration, in any case, it is the continuity of some legislative projects that come into the Republic's parliament and in other areas, in various ways, as we have called them, when it comes to labour disputes. This one, in fact, kind of refers to financial disputes. This has different modifications, but the essence is in financial disputes, because they take a long time, although to be very correct, for the last year these disputes have been resolved faster than they were in some previous period, where even cleaner contractual obligations, where it is clear that between the parties there were clear contractual commitments, have not been dealt with properly. Perhaps working disputes will speed up these processes. Now we have processes that for 20,000, 50,000 have been going on for two or three years, where it is quite clear, where various ways are now being invented in the Trade Court -- no witness has come, a witness has come, and when summed up, out of the 50,000, how much this dispute between the two business entities, it is quite clear that for both the state and the entities involved, it exceeds that dispute several times. At the very least, these disputes are often driven more by principle. Both participants in the dispute will no longer give in to the principle, even though they are aware that both costs, in the end, nothing more than the fact that they must lose the day to go to the economic court, sooner in the Kingdom or here, and the subject is from Belgrade. I think arbitration in that case can do a lot of good, to speed up these processes, and that these processes where the matter is completely clear are solved beyond the official court cases and that this is how to resolve faster charges. We can talk about speeding up economic flows, but if there's no security for anyone who places, sells goods, unless there's security, then there's no objectively possibility of speeding up some of the economic flows in our country. However, one thing I know from experience, even personally, in business terms, the biggest problems when it comes to economic disputes are between individuals, between the economic operator and the state. When an economic operator is right about the state and when he is in charge of a labour dispute, mostly courts avoid rulings, they delay a year. I'm not going to use this pay phone, but I can give you ten examples of where it's a completely clean matter, and after the Supreme Court's decision, etc., that it's a right economic entity, not a state. More specifically, it is clear that the court ruling should be in favour of the economic operator, and the judge, even in the general jurisdiction, in terms of regular courts, and not only in the Trade Court, will not rule, even to speak frankly – listen, I will not judge against the state, and you will do better to delay. These disputes last indefinitely. In the end, they end up by someone making a deal with the state again, not by being realistically meant to win that dispute. I can bring in documentation from all kinds of people, show you that it's a pure thing. Take one lousy example: the state collects the tax of five, ten million, it turns out that it shouldn't have charged that tax, it's quite clear that it should be returned, and now you need to sue the state to pay you back those funds that someone paid for, which may have stopped there, and then that process lasts five, six, ten years. We here, with one of my amendments, have ordered the state that she too has an obligation to pay interest when she withdraws more, but, to be honest, it doesn't work. That's why I think that detail could be made more clear, but I think even with a law like this, it can be clearer, because the arbiters in this dispute will clearly come into a position to solve these cases more quickly. I'd rather list the problems that were, and at least hopefully, this law on arbitration and these processes will speed up. It is our job, as an MP, at the very least, to keep the government concerned about the interests of the state, but when the state cheats on someone, if I can say so, and that is not a rare case, then we have to be even more obliged to provide legislation to protect that individual, that economic operator. The economic operator cannot be obliged to pay the tax within eight days, and that the state can wait five years to pay the commitment it has to the citizens. It's a lame thing. When there's about this dead cattle that the ministry is supposed to pay, it's got to know the deadline. There must be a deadline both ways. They have to be the same rules of conduct: if you're removing me from my account as a state of funds because I'm required on the eighth or 15th day to pay, then the state, then some regulatory body must take off the state account for the benefit of that individual or economic operator. I think in that sense we can edit and build a legal state. If that is not the case, if there is no mutual obligation of the state to an individual, as well as an individual to the state, there is no state. So much for that. When it comes to this second law, I have to say that for various reasons, even professional ones (not these MPs), I have dealt with it. I even organized one consultation last year, where I brought together first of all people related to copyright; yes, when they fought afterwards at the Intercontinental, but I haven't been there in three years, I don't care what they do after that; I can't follow them where they go, they can fight at home. It was my good will to gather them in one place, try to help and do some kind of pressure on the government to suggest it. I'm sorry the culture minister didn't come because he didn't care about it, and logically, he was supposed to be there, but I'm glad he was the chairman of the Culture Committee, Mr. Lazarevic, at the meeting. They were representatives of the MUP, because this is now one of their important tasks, but they didn't intervene because it wasn't there. I have to be honest... What, Sasha Dragic and the government of Georgiev are I supposed to follow, give them a date so they don't fight? Well, MPs fight, too, why don't we make artists. I don't understand this great philosophy about it, people got into a fight. It's about interest. This law shows that this interest is great and there is no dispute about it. The squirrel told one truth: there is also, if I may say, counterfeiting by those who are owners and stamps, and trade marks and intellectual property, themselves forging their work, their brand or their brand because they go with a skat, with something that is original forgeries, with a much cheaper price and they put it on the black market. I'm not talking about one area, but it's over in all areas, even big systems often do it, so the other class, they say, is forging as some other brand, not under their own brand. I have to be honest, I've been pushing for us as Serbia to adopt... You will tell me, of course, that there is some restriction in the Constitutional Charter in the sense that it is a commitment of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. However, regardless of the fact that we have the Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property and Copyright at the level of the state community, I preferred that, in addition to this part of the law, which applies primarily to sanctions, we have a complete Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property which would rewrite and amend this law that has a lot of shortcomings, which was adopted in the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, it's a good thing he exists too, even worse if he didn't exist, but without this law, that law has no value whatsoever. If there is no law with sanctions, that law has no value and it has proved in the previous period. I'll give you an example, since it's now attractive who owns Radio "S" or not, I'll use Radio "S". It is impossible to have a hundred televisions in Serbia, that we have five, six hundred radio stations, and that those who fulfilled the obligation to SOKOJ were B92, BK and Radio "S". Under these three companies that have fulfilled their obligation to SOKOJ is a well, if I may say so, so 90% of them have not fulfilled any obligation to SOKOJ. So these things are resolved, they have an obligation; if they do not pay, they will be punished. We're getting to one point I've seen. And when we punish, we have to make some balance. On the one hand, we here as MPs make decisions on punishment and the level of punishment, but we have to think about the situation in which Serbia's economy is and that these penalties are not so drastic for those entities that will exceed the value, that they can no longer function, that they can endure, that after these penalties they cease to exist. Now take one bar, I'll tell the bar on purpose, she has an obligation under this law to make a list of singers who are being broadcast in that pub. They've had them so far, they just haven't met, and now the punishment is scheduled for it. How much can a bar be punished under this law if it doesn't deliver to SOKOJ, first, a list of those who sang, and second, if it doesn't pay? So, the manager of the bar can be punished by 50,000 dinars, the owner of a coffee shop of 50,000 dinars and a STR or a company of up to a million dinars. One bar can close right now. He'd better shut it down right now, go home and not let anyone in, let alone sing. I mean, honestly, we need to take care of that disproportion a little bit. It is impossible for the same punishment to be for someone not delivering the list to SOKOJ and for whoever forged the shampoo of a few dozen, several hundred thousand euros in the "C" market (there was an affair over it). Whoever forged and imported the counterfeit shampoo has to pay not millions of dinars, but millions of euros, because it's breaking up the businesses of other business entities in Serbia that make the same shampoo, they just don't have that kind of brand. Can't be in the same environment, on the same economic level as that economic operator or as the "C" market he was selling. When I get into the "C" market, I want to know for sure it's the original, not the original forgeries. All in all, regardless of what my suggestions are, and anyone who would work on this bill has some ideas, so he would do something different, in a different way, agree, I have to say that this is a great progress, and that it will certainly contribute greatly to some issues being resolved. So far, the police have had a problem, what Mrs. Radeta was saying: she picks up CDs in front of SKC or somewhere else, and then what she does, nothing, they file a report, the court rejects it, because she says the biggest counterfeits are the ones that produce the most, and the situation becomes completely meaningless. Speaking of CDs – because it's the most attractive, it's not the most important thing here, it's the brand and the brand, and not that, but it's the most attractive for the public – only with us can you buy a CD for 150 dinars, for two euros not full, there's no other way to buy a CD without 10-15 euros. Why? Because whoever does this CD has no obligation either to the SOKOJ or to the one who wrote the song or to the one who sang it. Only with us can you buy a book for 100 dinars, because whoever wrote it is important to issue a book, so he adds some dinar only to issue a book, and there is no obligation for the publisher to give him a corresponding percentage of the sale of that book, and then, in fact, he only achieves an increase in circulation, illegally, so he writes a thousand, and he printed 10 times a thousand etc. So, that element in some of the corresponding upgrades is going to be solved. Anyway, I talked not with any intention of criticizing this, more to warn about what's going on on on our market. We're falling into a country that's on the lowest scale to protect intellectual property. There have been a lot of warnings, even the United States, because some of my friends on the other hand like to call on them, here I am calling, that they will even break relations with Serbia-Montenegro because there is no protected intellectual property; of course they mean Microsoft, but not only that, they mean Madonna for sure. This is one big step to solve these issues, and to move Serbia-Montenegro on the intellectual property protection scale, as they would say, to a much better place. It is a great process, a great work and effort to come into a position to protect intellectual property, a stamp and everything else Mrs. Silaev has listed today. I think that by adopting this law, the Assembly will make a major move towards this, and that is why I thank you for the bill and we will vote and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26387	The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica. Let the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic be prepared. Here is just one notice, since there are still SRS MPs left, 35 minutes left – it will work without a break and with the conclusion of the debate we will in principle end today's working day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26388	I thank you, I will contribute in a constructive way. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I'd like to begin by commenting on the title. The law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights – this "efficient" I do not understand, it is a nearer definition of the law. Whether there are less or more effective laws, whether there is a law on effective medical means or medicines, or, for example, a law on better traffic safety, etc. The law doesn't look like the law, we said, but rather the expert methodological guidance for the work of inspections, because it draws jurisdiction from so-called. federal laws of the Serbia-Montenegro community on copyright, patents and legal protection of designs, stamps. So these three laws are the basics, we see from the criminal provisions. When we read more carefully the criminal provisions we only see how much this law did not really contain some more precise ideas, some more precise solutions even in this principled declarative part of what Mrs Radeta was talking about. That's where we see, say, in Article 30, 38, that copyrights that we might suspect to be next to film, television, artistic, cultural versions of different contents might refer to textbooks and that professional literature, where it was the basis of our actions and attempts to change this so-called. The law... You see, here in your explanation you are trying in this introductory part to say that this will create conditions that competent institutions, authorities and organisations will be able to help citizens or economic operators to fight simplerly to protect their rights. That would, in some ways, be drinking and it would formally stand. But when you think about it further, in the discussion of the authority of these bodies and organizations, you can see that it is almost divided by a sharp line of division of the operation of the inspection bodies in the work where they work on official duty and when they work on their own authority, by their own findings, by their own means, I mean by request. If they're working on a request, then they have to, when they find a carrier, the damaged holder of the law has to enter the process of proving to the court within a period that's shorter here -- it's only 15 days. I don't know why this deadline is shorter for them, because you're making the impression that the inspector isn't entirely sure when he brings a solution after a complex procedure and gives a certain measure that something needs to be withdrawn from the market, temporarily stop distribution, distribution. And speaking of goods, I find it hard to accept, say, the book to see as a commodity, but more or less it's about goods, some things about services. Well, then it is urgent, as you say in one of these members, to leave and to report to the court the rightholder, who thinks his intellectual property has been injured and to get the proper measure before the court within 15 days. How is he going to act the same as the one that... Of course, the inspector is acting on official duty, is he; how he will act (he only has a month, if I understood in the proposal that way, 15 plus 15 to extend) the court's decision, when we know that the courts are otherwise inefficient, to work slowly, to delay it. Because what a risk it is if in 15 days, and the procedure is quite complex: let's say, I estimate that my copyright is and I file a request for the inspector to come out. Then the inspector has to determine if my request was established, so he can come out, so, let's say, confiscate some books that someone's photocopyed me, multiplied and shared, and then obliges me with his decision to go to court and make a 15-day court ruling that, God forbid, I might be wrong. And in the meantime, you predicted that for everything I'm doing, I had to lay down a bank guarantee. So, I'm going to have to give some money, even if I'm doing something more serious, some writing books, today many jobs are more serious and more lucrative than that, to even pawn my instruments, my work to help the inspectors, the public prosecutor you've led here, to come up with evidence about it, and it turns out that the court ruled that I was wrong, and at the same time what the inspectors found was handed over to the public prosecutor and was handed over to criminal proceedings. So, the question is what's going on and how will the holder of the intellectual right to force the court to take him in 15 days, in this second case, which I think is the right example of how this law is not well in the details of the elaborated, or this instruction of the expert methodological. It can be called, let's say, law enforcement, these three laws of the SCG, let's say that I might understand. Or, criminal provisions, you can see a criminal provision under this law arising from the position of that law and that law that was passed on the so-called higher. Federal level. In that part, there remained a uncertainty as to why and whether the amendment should be intervened at all, whether you would accept it and extend the time limit to those who have the right when the applicants themselves are required, go to the inspectors and demand that their work be protected, why they are punished to invest, the bank guarantee, if they have to verify their right to the court only within 15 days. Why can't that deadline be repeated to them, as in Article 13 when an inspector acts under official duty, where you have an attitude 2 to repeat again in 15 days. So, when the inspector starts on official duty looking for something, it's a question of where he's gonna stop, where he's gonna go. The citizen here doesn't have the right to persuasion, to urge him to initiate the procedure, to go and say, Mr. Inspector, here's the sale of photocopied books, I know those books, go see. That means not an ordinary citizen, an ordinary user, for example, an interested party, but an inspector can do it if you beg him. How are you going to beg him, let's say, in case the inspector assesses that the matter is particularly urgent, so that in three days, he can bring a temporary solution to the confiscation of goods, its confiscation, and so on. This, therefore, opens up a chance and creates one fundamental doubt, and yet it is reduced under intervention, the other part of its jurisdiction, so jurisdiction under the request of the license holder, copyright, etc. So, as much of these people as you help them, you're actually getting rid of them, because you don't know, because, of course, the competent authority is going to create the price of that bank participation, that financial commitment to implement the procedure. What may be blackest, he is at great risk that if the court finds otherwise, that there was no basis for his intervention, then the question arises – what were the inspectors doing, as the inspector introduced the licensee, the licensee, the owner of the copyright in the procedure, sent him, sent to the attorney general in the criminal sector, sent him here, sent him there, found him if he was known, and it is better sometimes not to be known, because if he doesn't find him he won't have to pay for these participations, this participation in the security of material costs. And in the end, the court decides in 15 days or 16 days that this guy was wrong, so the money's gone, they're not coming back to him. We put some amendment in there to fix it, but we don't think that's right. We don't think it's right, and when it comes to this first act of duty, you know. There's a party a little quieter, there's something the inspector did for him, there's really a citizen, a rights holder, a little safer. So much has been clear, so visible that the inspector has, for example, found it himself, but yet there is 15 plus 15 days of time for the court to take the final measure. Now, how's he gonna know when he's gonna apply for another 15 days? Is it waiting on the fourteenth day, so if he goes to court and says, "knock, knock, Mr. Judge, is my dispute settled, will you give me the measure you bring?" Well, I don't know, you see, we're up to two. So he enters the 15th day, whether if he lives in another city that day, he will have a solution or not, or he will lose his right to those 15 days; or if he asks the inspector for another 15 days to extend the time for which he... When assessing the current efficiency of the court, he will surely need more than just to satisfy his right. Of course, there's a lot more punishment for the one who starts the procedure, because he's going to have to invest certain bank deposits, I said that, but he's going to make the impression that the inspector has gone unprepared in the whole story. He is, therefore, the one who said - I doubt that someone plagiarized my work, copied it; the inspector says - wait till I see it, and after 15 days he sees it, after 15 days he makes a decision, he also reports to this man, the bearer, the owner, reports to the court, the prosecutor and says, "Now, you go ahead and fight ahead." So what you said in the introduction, that this will simplify the way in which citizens or legal persons or individuals will solve problems, does not stand until the end, because he has to go to court again, as he has so far had to. Well, none of the binding clauses that would force the court to, except, of course, some kind of decision and some kind of financial assistance, as it stands in the argument that the courts will get to prepare to work faster and more up-to-date, because then it's a double dilemma. I'm not a lawyer, I don't know how to interpret it. What if a public prosecutor finds in this criminal proceedings that something is not clean, and the court, for example, makes a liberating decision, what will the licensee do, copyright? As it goes on and on, the lawyers must know better. When a law is written it should be clear to those like me who read it, and I am not a lawyer by profession, and it is clear, acceptable, to see what can be expected of it. We think that this law has these shortcomings that we have tried to correct to the amendments in one narrow segment where we have expressed unrest towards the fact that all goods are on the market, that so vulgar materialisation of spiritual goods can be goods, and that finally everything here is, ethical norms can become goods, anything can be bought, false opinion, a false attitude. But of course we think that professional publications, scientific literature should be given a preferential place, at least in law as such, because obviously this Law on Copyright cannot be applied here in some way, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We don't think that it's burning that in this manual, as set out in the legal form, the inspectors have that item, and we've mostly focused on that part, although we can see that there are some other formal shortcomings in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26389	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let Zoran Mašić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26390	Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator of this bill has explained the reasons why he proposes such a legal proposal. Among other things, he listed three things that have been defined for this bill, so I would say what are the key things. First of all, it refers to the efficiency of resolving economic disputes, as it has been noted that trade courts do not work effectively and quickly enough; it also relates to investor confidence, both domestic and foreign, to protect their investments and jobs in our country; and the reason for the costs of the proceedings is cited, because it is estimated that the proceedings before the arbitration court would be much cheaper than before the state court. What could be cited as some of the objections to this law could briefly be reduced to the following: Article 1 provides the subject of this law, and here it is defined what is considered to be internal arbitration, and what is international arbitration, so it is stated that international arbitration is a dispute with a foreign element. Article 3 further discusses what international arbitration means. However, when defining internal arbitration, it is not given what internal arbitration is, but a negative definition is given, which is otherwise avoided in legal theory and practice, because negative definitions do not define what is but what is not. So it's said that internal arbitration is without a foreign element. So everything that doesn't contain a foreign element should be internal arbitration, but it's too casual and general definition to determine the object of arbitration. There should have been more effort and defined, not only because of this, not because of legal perfection whether the definition itself will be perfect, but because of what will be the subject and contents of the arbitration and arbitration proceedings itself, because not all can be the subject of arbitration. The law mentions in several places that there is exclusive jurisdiction of courts in certain proceedings, although it is not defined until the end of which are the proceedings which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts and where the public order is violated in the annulment of the arbitration decision or recognition of a foreign arbitration decision, so there are some situations where they cannot be recognised for breach of the public order. Also, one big problem that is not solved by this law, which is very significant, not only in the legal theory but also in practice, is the application of procedural law. We are at the conclusion that this law had to apply the Law on the Procedural Procedure, it should not have been allowed to arbitration of the parties in the procedure to choose procedural law. Material law okay, they can choose domestic material legal regulations or sides, that's their assessment that materially legal regulations are better for some of the business relationships they have, but procedural law should not be touched and that should be the only procedural right of our legislation. The law on litigation would have to be applied exclusively in arbitration, but we'll see it later from some of the other members and provisions of this law, why it's important to be our procedural right, to have an exclusive right to arbitration proceedings. The law also left the possibility of permanent arbitration and arbitration if necessary, meaning from case to case or so on. ad hoc arbitration provided for in Article 6 of this Act. We believe that only permanent arbitration should exist because of the seriousness of the work itself, because in fact these arbitrations take over part of the judicial jurisdiction on themselves and they must be serious institutions. The founders of arbitration must be serious institutions, no groups of citizens, some stakeholders, and in any case this would be the case with these ad hoc arbitrations where there could be a reason for various types of abuses and coverage of certain legal transactions, fictitious, green legal transactions, in general legal transactions which, by their nature and under the Law on Liabilities, can be zero legal transactions. In permanent arbitration, where there are serious founders, arbitrations that would exist for many years, and that would gain some authority, all of this would be avoided. With ad hoc arbitration, you're never clear on what the party's real intention is in the process. We also believe that for these very reasons why it is not mandatory to apply the Law on Prosecution in arbitration proceedings... It shows that the court must intervene in certain situations: e.g. If the parties have not determined the arbitration agreement with their arbitration agreement, the regular court will determine the arbitration panel on their behalf; if no arbitration panel president has been designated or has not been designated by the parties, the court will have to intervene again and he will still have to designate the president of the arbitration panel; and in the case of exceptions, if any of the grounds for the exemption exist, the court will again decide on the reasons for the exemption of one of the arbitration panel or the chair of the arbitration panel. This would all be avoided if the mandatory application of the Law on the Procedural Procedure which regulates all of this meant: the composition of the judges, in this case the arbitration proceedings, the reasons for the exemption, the deadlines for the delivery of the parties, when considered what is neatly delivered, what is not, etc. The mandatory application of the Law on Prosecution would avoid all these controversial situations. As regards the costs of the arbitration proceedings, the proposer stated in his explanation that these procedures are cheaper in nature and would be significantly cheaper than those before regular courts, above all by a trade court. However, in Article 18, which states the costs, it is not seen at all, but simply Article 18 says there are costs of arbitration proceedings and that the arbitration court will determine them. There is absolutely no guarantee that cheaper arbitration costs, on the contrary, can be significantly more expensive than in regular courts. There is no guarantee under the law, there are no restrictions on the costs of the arbitration procedure. It is not limited in any sentence that the costs of the arbitration proceedings cannot exceed the costs of the court proceedings. That's why I'm saying it's very important that procedural legal matter has an exclusive in arbitration. It exists in the world, I think that Swiss arbitration, the cyreek, and some others, and in France, have an obligation to apply their procedural legislation. The parties shall be left to choose for themselves the material rules to be applied specifically to their case. In the end, I'd mention the situation, you get an arbitration ruling, and now you have two variants, a recognition of the enforcement of arbitration decisions, and one is a variant when it comes to our arbitration, and it has the status of judgment. It's likened, it's equated entirely with the court's verdict. The legal remedy of the dissatisfaction party may be an appeal for the annulment of the arbitration decision and Article 58 sets out the reasons for the annulment of the arbitration decision, and Article 59 provides for a three-month period of time for the arbitration decision to be attacked. Only by suing one of the parties can initiate a mistrial. Generally, the reasons for the annulment of domestic arbitration decisions are related to procedural actions. I will only point out briefly, the reason for the action may be: 1) the arbitration agreement is not binding, 2) the party against whom the arbitration decision has not been taken has not been duly informed of the appointment of the arbitration tribunal or the arbitration proceedings (the notification issue), (3) if the arbitration decision settles the dispute which is not covered by the arbitration agreement, (4) the composition of the arbitration court or arbitration proceedings were not in conformity with the arbitration agreement, (5) the arbitration decision is based on the false testimony of the witnesses or of the craftsman, or some document has been falsified, etc. These are all purely procedural things, not material-legal, but procedural things that regulate the Law on litigation anyway. I don't see why it would be possible for the parties to attack that arbitration decision after making an arbitration decision. For purely procedural reasons, because some country's procedure has been applied that no one understands best and then these problems arise after making an arbitration decision. Finally, the annulment of the decision will be made if the court assesses that there has been a breach of the public order, if the decision is contrary to the public order and if, according to our material and legal regulations, it is not possible for this dispute to be conducted before arbitration, but before a regular court. The court shall only do so if one of the parties submits an appeal for the annulment of the arbitration ruling. So if he can't take it and miss his three-month deadline, nothing. The arbitration decision remains in force, although it is contrary to the public order, although a dispute has been led that could not be led before arbitration, but before a regular court, and it has passed as it has passed and is going to enforcement. The court has no mechanism that I am ex-officio, according to official duty, says – gentlemen, this arbitration decision is contrary to public order, or could not be the subject of leading before arbitration. So, the court must wait for one of the parties to initiate proceedings for the annulment of that arbitration decision in order to then, under official duty, be able to apply these two points and to see whether or not it is contrary to public order or not, or whether the subject matter was permitted or not to be conducted before arbitration. This once again stems from procedural and legal matter, because if the Law on the Procedural Procedure was applied, the Arbitraries would have to apply the Law on the Procedural Procedure to take care of all these elements, because in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, he would demand that it be guided in accordance with the public order. The second option is – if a foreign arbitration decision comes to us for execution, it must be confirmed and implemented under the provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act. This is regulated by a series of members from Articles 64 to 68. The formal reasons for recognising the party's arbitration decision have been reduced to the minimum possible extent. In addition to the original parties to the arbitration decision, you provide evidence that there is an arbitration agreement, or an arbitration agreement, you provide a certified translation and arbitration decisions and the court must automatically recognise that decision and implement it by means of implementing rules. So now, in the implementation of the Implementing Procedure Act, there is a supremacy against all laws, and it cannot be enforced according to the regulations of foreign countries, foreign countries, but it is the sea according to ours, and that is fine. That's not controversial. There are reasons to refuse that confession. In order to refuse recognition of a foreign arbitration decision here, one of the parties is required to initiate a procedure to refuse recognition of a party to the arbitration ruling and to state five reasons, which are very similar to the reasons for filing the action and for the annulment of the domestic arbitration decision. Mostly it all comes down to formal reasons, because it's the procedural law again. It is now possible for the court to refuse recognition and enforcement of a foreign arbitration decision if it is contrary to public order and if the subject matter of the dispute, according to our regulations, was not suitable for arbitration and could not be subject to arbitration proceedings. This is where the court's hands are tied. He cannot, under official duty, examine these two things himself, but must wait for one party in the process to initiate a procedure to refuse recognition and execute a foreign arbitration decision, so that the court can determine whether or not something is contrary to the public order. Otherwise, he would have to forward the original arbitration decision of the party to arbitration, the certified translation and the arbitration agreement, according to his official duty, and to recognise it by means of automation and to enforce it according to our domestic enforcement regulations. I don't think that's right and that all this comes from the whole concept of this arbitration law and that it's allowed to negotiate the procedural laws of other countries. I think it's illegal, and procedural, all possible procedural laws, and those yesterday we talked about and everyone else, are extremely important, because the rules of procedure give all participants and all parties equal rights and opportunities and there is no discrimination in any other respect. I think you've come up with the most in two things: it's about permanent arbitration and that it can only be foreign arbitration and exclude the possibility of ad hoc application of the CAP as an exclusive procedural right that can be applied before our domestic arbitrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26391	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. You have eight and a half minutes, eight and 24 seconds, 26, here, I'm buying - eight and 34.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26392	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your worship. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will focus my debate on the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, given that Mr. Milajic has very fundamentally explained the previous law. Several MPs from our SRS group have also given their reasoned reference to the bill that I want to say a few words about, and I think this time left will be sufficient. First of all, I want to find out what Mr. Poscurica said – although the proponent's tendency was to increase efficiency in solving this problem of copyright protection, with the deadlines given here and certain conditions and decisions of the court, I don't think that this efficiency will be achieved and the promoter should seriously consider it and possibly make adjustments before the adoption of this bill itself. What I want to look at, which is a feature of certain laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that certain laws that regulate several areas, which define engagement and the function of a number of ministries, are often not properly covered. There is simply no co-ordination between ministries and ministers who are proposing, but above all the ministries as legislators, and certain failures are being made. I think that this bill too has made one serious failure, first of all it refers to Article 6. These are the competent authorities that are defined, and here three ministries are listed as competent in implementing legal obligations, and this is: the ministry responsible for trade and tourism affairs, the ministry responsible for health affairs, the ministry responsible for urban and construction affairs, as well as the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We have intervened and explained, in front of our parliamentary group, that the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Education and Sports should certainly be apostrophe in the framework of the competent authorities. I also want to complement this so that it should be within the competent ministries defined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, because certain, as I say, products and in extreme action that fall under the area of agriculture are very susceptible to the impact of copyright abuse, patents, stamps and all other things, which makes a very big confusion with consumers and can cause very big problems in agricultural production as well. Given that it is specific products, when specific professional calling and knowledge is required, I don't think these defined ministries here as competent can carry it out. Unfortunately, we have not intervened with the amendment, but if you accept my argument, my suggestion is that the committee in charge, if it agrees, propose the addition of this Article 6 and that, as the competent authority, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management be defined as well. The shortest I will try to explain; to take as an example only food for animals (in the people is known and is called different, i.e. concentrates) – from various manufacturers we have several renowned import companies, but we also have a large number of small producers who very skillfully forge labels, packagings, instructions for use, etc. It may be even more characteristic, related to food products from the meat industry, the dairy industry, the conditoral industry or the production of alcoholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages, where large counterfeits and the misuse of patents, stamps or copyrights are also present. I will just briefly look back and mention an international dispute between Greece and France, as countries of the European Union, and the case is related to feta cheese, as a protected name. The country that made that cheese is Greece and it asked that no country should be allowed to produce that cheese under that name. One firm in France that made that cheese needs big money to give. Go into any of our supermarkets today and you'll see how much cheese we have from different manufacturers. Feta cheese is characteristic because it is made from goat and cow milk at a certain percentage, and our feta cheese is mainly made from cow's milk. I've only given you one example of the obvious forgeries and that market inspection doesn't take care of one such product whose name is being misused without essentially responding to that product protected by that name. Not to mention, let's just say, plant and animal protection means, what kind of problems there is, what is everything like a plant protection agent or a weed spray for use, sales with a label of renowned producers, and in fact, it's "a blasphemous guide". Or, veterinary drugs, which are also specific, where the Ministry of Health can't control it, and there's abuse. Not to mention the seeds of plants and fruit material, it also often appears with labels of renowned manufacturers, and it absolutely does not match what it is. Organic products are also specific products, which must clearly be declared and clearly defined and defined, where they also need to achieve that price to really comply with this; if they are not properly controlled, they do not respect copyright, patents of those producers that have to report specifically, register these products, there will be major problems. That's why I think that here under the jurisdiction must be absolutely present and the Ministry of Agriculture with its inspection bodies, because it is specific products. Mr. President, I'm sorry, one more minute and I'll be done, seeing as my time is running out, but there's something else I want to say. This law is not regulated, and I think it is very important and important in our country, from the aspect of protection and values of intellectual property and patents, in privatisation and sales of companies where it simply does not take into account the price and value of these patents and intellectual property created in companies, if we enter the privatisation tomorrow, therefore, certain scientific institutes where we have a large number of registered patents and intellectual rights and property, and where we do not account, or where there is no mechanism to protect and collect it properly. I also ask the legislator to rightly regulate the problem. In the end, let me just say one more thing, the public is working to take advantage of this opportunity, as of two weeks ago, the information went that the government had adopted and released the law on agricultural land in the assembly procedure, which caused the attention and interest of agricultural producers. It was published as information by the minister and on our public service means on state television. Since I had contacts, a large number of agricultural producers have been asking questions about the content of this law, I must, for the public's sake, informing that this law, although the government has adopted it and it has been announced that it has not yet entered the procedure, has not reached the Assembly and that it travels for 15 days. I am taking the opportunity to ask the parliamentary question of the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Minister of Agriculture and the Government – what is the matter with this law, because it is an important law, and it has already gone public that it has entered the procedure, and he has not reached us and has not reached this building. I ask the president to make an effort and that the more urgent we get the information, or at least be denied through the media that he is not yet in the assembly procedure, so as not to make a mistake with the agricultural producers. I apologize to both your present and the President for time-exceeding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-10-0.u26393	There is no, be kind, so for both you and the public, there is no reason to formulate through the minutes as a parliamentary question, because I can confirm this moment. Yes, we have received official notice from professional services that the government law has been passed and that it will be referred to the congregation procedure in the coming days, and it is not yet in the congregation procedure. I suppose it has happened before in large-scale laws (you probably know better if it is large) to make sure that everything that is in the legislative activity and the preparation of the government's bodies is put into place prior to the procedure. Since it is now a regular session, it is possible that MPs and the public know, as soon as they enter the assembly procedure, immediately thereafter, because it is a law that is not under emergency procedure, because it would already be found, at the end of 15 days, it is possible for them to be on the agenda and MPs may decide, as you know, during the extraordinary session. So I'm sure we'll all make a deal together and do it in the coming months. I think that's detailed enough. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on arbitration and the draft law on special powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. As we have announced, we must, for both MPs and professional services, respect it, although we have done this effectively, however, continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours in a united debate on the proposals of Laws 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. Thank you for your responsibility. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we can start working day. I'd like to inform you that no one has signed up to be absent. We move to 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE MARKET OF PURPOSE AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, INVESTICIONAL FONDS, PRESIDING OF ACTIONARY COLLECTIONS AND ACCOUNTMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS (together in principle) I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9 plus 9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia, five MPs - 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group: three SPP MPs, three independent MPs - five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a law on the market in securities of value and other financial instruments, - Proposal for a law on investment funds, - Proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies, and - Proposal for a law on accounting and audit. Before I ask the promoter's representative if he wants a word, I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised, for the SRS: Veroljub Arsic, for the DSS: Slavoljub Matic, for the SPS: Jovan Todorovic. Pursuant to Article 85(1) and (4) Rules of Procedure, and in order to know how to schedule your duties and adequately prepare the debate, I would like to inform you that we will be working today until the end of the item on the agenda at 1800 hours. This, given the time at our disposal, if the session does not take away at some time, will be a debate on the Law on Public Skiing. At the same time, under Article 1, I would like to inform you that the session will be held, in view of the importance of the law and respect for the Assembly and the obligations of the president to ensure the presence of ministers, when the ministry is discussed or represented, while at the same time due to the obligation to take care of the international obligations and official travels undertaken, the continuation of the debate will be on Friday, i.e. It will work tomorrow, and Monday will not work, but the session will be held on Tuesday. So, what you were planning to do for Friday is move on Monday, and it's the same number of working days for vacations or for work. Thank you so much for understanding. Whether the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, wants a word. Here you go.
