ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28958	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are moving to the 13th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Transport Act in Drumsk SAPORAJE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Branislav Stevanović, Momir Marković, Dragoljub Stamenković, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Djordjevic and Tihomir Đuričić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to Article 2 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how long the ministers and the government will be demeaning this house, the home before which they have sworn an oath and these MPs before whom they should take their bills. The sooner they lay down their accounts to the MPs, the less likely there will be an account to be deposited to the MUP after the election. I don't think the Assembly can keep working until we see a minister here. I respect the assistant minister who came here, however, he can come here to sit as long as the debate takes place, no question can be answered, and I deeply hope that he is Velje Ilic's assistant at the ministry. Assistants of Velje Ilic in other jobs do not sit here, they are now in some other institutions. That's why I'd like the minister to find himself here to answer our questions, because yesterday we didn't have one minister, the other day, we don't have Velija Ilic. Does this mean that the government is slowly but certainly putting itself above this home? That's why I think the chairman should interrupt the session, invite the minister, get the minister into this first bench and hear what the MPs have to say to him, provided, of course, he hasn't already gone to match some other institutions in this country. I hope if he's there, he won't sew his mouth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28960	Mr. Markovic, I have already explained once that it may indeed be a violation of good customs for ministers to attend when the proposals of their laws are discussed. However, they can misrepresent themselves or well on behalf of the government, but respond primarily to the Government, and we will not stop the work of parliament because the minister is or is not there. Anyway, because of your request, we're going to ask around where the resolution minister is and if he's going to be able to come to the session today when the law is debated in particular. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28961	Mr. Chairman, I didn't ask you to ask where the minister is. I don't care what he's doing right now. His place of work is here today in this first seat in this bench and he has to come. It's not a good business tradition, it's a minister's obligation. No matter how you made the Rules of Procedure as you did since 2000, three or four times has been changed, it is the minister's obligation to come and sit here to answer the questions of the MPs, to possibly clear up some dilemmas before we decide to adopt or do not adopt amendments or when it comes to the law in principle. As far as I can understand you, you want to tell us that certain ministers are rude, they don't respect the MPs, they don't respect this bright home, but that's their problem. It is their duty to be here and to hear what the MPs have to say to them. Therefore, regardless of the good customs, it is the minister's obligation to be here and I ask on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that the work of parliament be terminated until the minister comes and sits here to suit us, and we have a lot of things to ask him and we expect a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28962	Thank you. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28963	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a road transport law, where I propose that Article 2 be deleted as well as the next four amendments that I have submitted to the same law. I'll explain it very briefly. Here it is proposed that the vehicle be taken away from the traffic offender using the line, for example, to set an example in Belgrade, Slavi – Surcin. Although in addition to the drastic punishment he should pay if he goes to another part of town, to illustrate that he went to some private business or some friends to finish something at Dorcolo, that part of the city controls him and collects the fine that already exists by law, a law that we passed less than a year ago. And now, just because of this proposal to take away a vehicle, we have amendments and additions to this law. In addition to the drastic penalties that amount to over 100,000 dinars, these amendments and additions to the Law suggest the withdrawal of the vehicle. Gentlemen, this is an excessive and excessive measure for the reason that if we were to consider that more users of vans, line vehicles, with this vehicle supports their entire family and if we did so, we would endanger the existence of the entire family of users of that vehicle. Therefore, I believe that the amendments and additions of this law have one basic goal, which is the creation of a monopoly, which we had in case we had a law on gambling, when we know how many deposits there should be in the bank. Also, whoever's throwing games of chance should have about 150 machines, so we had a drug law and a lot of others. The amendments and additions of this law are also aimed at creating a monopoly. In this way, we automatically degrade the small economy, endanger those people who can do the fastest and the easiest way to get to profit, which is especially in large cities in that line traffic, where they can earn some modest salary for themselves and their family and survive. So, by taking away the vehicle, we're doing a lot of material damage, and it's automatically that vehicle-holder is out of a job and he's questioning the existence of his family. Not to mention other psychological divisions on his family members, etc. I believe that this bill is not good, I have submitted five amendments to these amendments and the additions to the Law which mainly apply to the same, in accordance with the other article, and I believe that the other proposals and I believe that it is an excessive measure of seizing the vehicle and that in this way we are going to do great damage to our very small economy that you are very much in favour of and you are talking about stimulating a small economy, and this is a direct blow to small businesses, and one of the many examples of the creation of monopoly in this society. Thank you, so much, since the time has expired for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28964	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28965	Article 1 The proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Act in road transport states that Article 31 after Article 4 adds the 5th sentence, which reads: "In the vanlinic transport of passengers, other than the extra-line transport referred to in Article 31a of the position of 1 of this Act, the carrier must have proof of the payment of the price of non-linear transport - a journey set out in the contract laid down in Article 1 of this Article for the entire time of transport". If read now what is written in the position of the first member, there is a regulated practical content of the written contract between the carrier and the transport user, and this contract must particularly contain information on the route, destination, destination, duration, price, place of loading – landing, place of loading – unloading, etc. Then this article is complemented by a new attitude and no one could interpret alive, to explain what they could mean by words – proof of the payment of the price of extra-line transport. What's proof of payment? The evidence of the payment is some order which carried out the transfer of funds where the user transferred the contracted price before the start of the transport to the carrier. So, he's in advance, he's in charge. Now that we put it in the context of possible cases of application of this member, then it's a situation where a travel agency contracts transportation with a carrier, a bus driver must always have a contract, which I support, should be with all these elements, but must have a payment agency. And the travel agency is unable to deal with that carrier, for example, for a month, all transport and take the obligation to pay for it when the month is up. Let's take another situation. Let's say a new party organizes a rally, say, in Chačka, and there should be a singer at the rally, and at the end of the rally there should be fireworks, so he says – we'll take all 50 members of the party from Nis, that's enough for one bus, who'll pay for the bus – mayor. So, this driver must have a warrant where the city of Nis paid the carrier, and thus the president of that new party can't fictitiously contract transport, no one can drive anyone for free, but there's got to be proof that a service has been paid, even though it's not known at the time of payment whether that service will be performed in accordance with the contract, whether the bus may be broken, what will happen. As far as I can tell, this is where human pit bull syndrome spreads from one of the departments of procedure as an infection and another ministry. If this was a regulation proposed by the Ministry of Finance, I would know immediately the diagnosis – chronic "diabolis bunicis". However, I see this has spread to capital. So there's going to have to be some new diagnosis. I don't know how we can legally influence the freedom of contract and the free will of the parties. I don't know what regulation we have to say – this service must be paid in advance. I don't know what genius mind designed the system to be paid first and to slaughter. This is in line with the terminology used by the government's representative on this agenda point, among other things, when he is taking a break between fighting journalists. I don't mind him, since I'm famous for not having some kind attitude toward the press, I'm very happy to sue them. This can't stand in the law. Those of you who feel that such a bill should be supported and believe that the minor damage is such a rigorous provision in relation to the damage that could result from the abuse of certain powers by the carrier, you must bear in mind that the legislative body is not authorized in this way to question the provisions of many of the laws that this National Assembly has also passed, whether in this assembly, whether in any previous, absolutely not important, because we are bound by all laws and the Constitution. The cell of the legal and political system must be preserved and it must primarily be taken into account by the MPs and the National Assembly. This kind of thing can't stand in the law, because this is practically a warrant that, not only affects, it doesn't respect the will of the parties. Contracts between the transporter and the service user, I can accept that, mandatory written form, that the Bond Act allows, I can accept that there is an uncontestable agreement of their will regarding all elements of that contract, but I don't think anyone here can accept that the law requires that before the start of the journey the user must pay the full price and that the proof of payment must be on the bus, so when the inspection comes, it shows, not only the contract, but that payment has been made. I can understand that there are problems with inspection surveillance, and I agree with that. I can accept the situation and there are fictitious contracts. I took an example of a concert in Cachka when the Nišli should come or when they should come from somewhere else the most firey fans of that singer come, so I gave you a hypothetical situation when it's paid by the community, by the party, by individuals, but it can't get into the law. If this is put into the law, you can be sure that you will only encourage even greater lawlessness, and responsibility will depend solely on the self-will of the inspector and whoever is at the head of that ministry that needs to control it all. His archin and his discretion will be the greatest law then. He can say, let's say, this vanlin transport company, whose co-owner is Nenad Bogdanović, although it's said, two or three companies, has several, I don't know if it's true, probably knows this ministry that controls, I took this example, because there are various control options, but this way of conditioning prevents normal business performance. You can control these contracts in another way, you can register, you have to sign up, you have to register, you have to sign up to the competent authority for extra-line transport, you could have had any other option, but the proof of payment is probably the only illegal variant. This government has defined itself as an illegal variant, just to remind you that it is a government that boasts that great respecters of the rules, the law, how the institutions of the state should be created to make the state good, as they say, all of it valid, but it needs to be prescribed, regulated, to be precise. You see here a classic example where it affects the will of the parties, in a way that is not allowed, and it cannot be justified by the fact that in the explanation it is said that someone abused the existing provisions of the law, made fictitious contracts, and there was no transport. You could have made a way to record, log-in, and otherwise get an insight into one continent of extra-line transport. You chose something to stand on the bus, it has to be on the bus, and whether or not the inspector will control it depends on whether or not they stop the buses. If he hasn't stopped the bus, they'll tear it up nicely, throw it away and finish the job. The very definition of these words – evidence of the payment, as you said, therefore, of the prices of vanlinic transport, means that the payment has already been made. You could have upgraded this with words – proof that eight days before the start of the journey the payment was made and then it would have been a complete provision. I think there's some kind of overpowerment going on here. I warn the MPs that this kind of a member and this attitude that is being upgraded cannot be adopted and I am simply surprised that those who work in the legislation did not warn the legislators that something like this could not be in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28966	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28967	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 is in accordance with Article 2 and let me just add, to explain why I didn't get here just to say for the sake of time, the seduction process itself is terrible in that sense if a drastic penalty is charged as it is, given the value of the vehicle, to specify the example of the vehicle, because that kind of thing doesn't have as much representation as the countries around it have long ago. If the vehicle is taken away, it lasts for five to six days, and before that, as I said, the amount of punishment itself, the question is whether it amounts to half the value of the vehicle or the whole vehicle, depends on the condition of the vehicle and when all is collected, it is automatically to the man to take away the job and take away the vehicle, and these are major consequences both material and moral. We should make sure that this accelerates the small economy and allow these people to deal with this profession, because we have a catastrophic bus ride, primarily city transport. I want to give an example, it's Lazarec - Belgrade, it could be heard by many passengers who go through this relationship, it's a disaster what kind of traffic it is, what happens when the bus stops and imagine at these temperatures without climate, without any conditions, what kind of transportation can be performed there. But if we had the possibility of doing all this by means of a van, then we'd have better conditions for the citizens themselves, so they could safely tie themselves up. It should also be pointed out that this bill is actually more intended for those people, i.e. contributes to those people who are donors of the ruling parties, and should in some way be given a political priority, i.e. that their vehicles are represented, as we have a number of private carriers that have a large number of their buses in both urban and suburban traffic. So they should have high priorities, that's how it works, because they're donors from some ruling parties. I'd like to say something else about traffic, these are our police checkpoints in a couple of places, I can give an example of Lipovica where I pass every day, it's a disaster, it can't pass any truck with anything, or any cargo vehicle without being stopped, not to say what's happening to these people. Therefore, we are still in some state of emergency, if we look at the behaviour of our police, and look now, all those who have traveled across Europe could meet with the police, and look how many times this is with us and I would really suggest that the government have all this in mind and Minister Jocic if he is able or Mika Vlaovic to inform him. I would ask one MP from the SRS not to throw and not to insult as I speak, and Mr. Chairman, this refers to Mr. Momir Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've just made a complaint to the chairman that there's not an MP out here for a pay phone, but we've been taking a break for 10 minutes, because I haven't noticed anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28969	Mr. Markovic, I remind you to treat your colleague with respect. (Momir Markovic of the post: He is not my colleague. He is a colleague, an MP. Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28970	Mr. Chairman, you're an extremely tolerated man, you've proven that many times. I would ask these charlatans like Markovic to act like they're in a theater, not like this in the National Assembly, to try to sanction it. I don't want to mention the party at all. I want to mention the individual I was already talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28971	Mr. Stevanovic, and I remind you to express yourself and treat your colleagues with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been mentioned again by name. I didn't mention anyone, I only asked the chairman why it was an empty pay phone. Maybe, trying to be funny, I turn out to be a charlatan, but I didn't steal anything from anyone, especially a parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28973	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Mr. Krasic reporting, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28974	Yet we are within the same theme – charlatanism, this member is truly charlatan. Let me explain to you what this is about. This is Article 2. The law supplementing this law, which is in Article 44a. After point 5, add point 6, which reads: "temporarily... ", the member refers, as stated in the law, to the duties and powers of the inspector. All you could say was authority, but it doesn't matter. So, the republican road traffic inspector is authorized, so now that's the first point, the second point with a large number, with six indents, so the third, fourth, fifth, and the sixth point is upgraded. The sixth point reads: "Temporarily withdraws the vehicle used to commit a misdemeanour or a commercial offence, until the finalisation of the offence, i.e. the procedure for commercial offences, and issue a confirmation of the withdrawal of the vehicle". Next time you're writing some amendments and supplementing the law in part of the provisions concerning inspection supervision, I'd like to ask you to put your name and last name on it. You can freely put the name and the name of an individual and continue – he "nn", as a solemn obligation goes: I, name and name, solemnly swear, then remake: he, name and surname, is authorized to take and issue a certificate. You can freely write that, take into account the company that has several buses or trucks, it doesn't matter, and now one inspector stands on the road there, stop, they have those tables, too, show, although they are in civilian, although they use for some time and the police, they control it, he - his Majesty Inspector, came to the conclusion that the driver of that vehicle committed a violation, suspected of committing a misdemeanour, will initiate a misdemeanor procedure, withdrawing a vehicle, issuing a human certificate, saying good-bye, we finished the job. Now, if someone objects to the government's representative on this agenda, he can use this authority and shut down the company. If the company has 40 buses in 40 places to send inspectors, they suspect that someone committed a commercial offense or a violation, took a vehicle, possible to initiate proceedings before the Commercial Court of Commerce for Commercial Crimes or before a judge for offences, it is possible even not to launch. It's enough for 15 days to think about it, the vehicle's been taken away, the company can't function. This is the possibility that this provision opens, and here, in essence, there is a provision that can easily be misused, and the consequences can be very difficult for the company or the carrier, etc. What are the guarantees that this will not be abused? If you think the guarantee for this is a judge for offenses which may not even punish a carrier's offence, then I must tell you that you are wrong, because the judge for violations according to some statistics of their work is 95 to 99% of all requests for the conduct of a misdemeanour procedure ending with punishment. A small percentage of those who, if I can use these new democratic terms, can prove their innocence to the judge for the offenses. His guilt is assumed. Everything's been reversed since October 5th. The vehicle is taken, the driver gets confirmation, he can take a picture with it. Then there's the question here who can take everything away from the vehicle in this country. In this country, the vehicle can take away your Parking Service, so you don't even know the vehicle's been taken away. In this country, the police can take your vehicle. If you think I'm wrong, I'll tell you, it's still the fourth time before the Supreme Court the same dispute over that spectacular hijacking of the jeep that the court has said was illegal three times. You know, who could have done it with Djindjic, Mihajlovic, Batić, Chad, Cheda, and said, "Separate immediately." The stolen vehicle, all possible and impossible reasons were used, none accepted by the Supreme Court, and Jocic must not return the vehicle. He must not return the vehicle because of NGOs and because of the threat of lustration – castration. When the law was passed here, then Batic, Vodnelic and those of the Civil League did not know if it was castration, whether it was lustration. When they saw it looked more like castration, they stopped with that law. You promised that law would be put out of force. It suits you as a threat and as some kind of ID. So this provision opens a wide door for abuse. I'm absolutely sure the abuse will be. How? Selective. Whoever pays, there is no provision, who does not pay. A decree is in force. It's a principle that has been promoted in this ministry that represents this law. Just to remind you, you have someone there from Pančev, Jocic, I don't know his name, I guess, by the way, he runs the Ministry. There's a fake Navy passport in Pancheva and everything else. That Petar Jojic knows very well, total chaos, disaster. That's what's going on. Why? All the powers came to the level of one ministry, which is clear and clothed. It can move an asphalt base to the courtyard of any member of the party, if the local elections are and the asphalt base is until the day until votes are counted. When votes are counted, the asphalt base goes to the next place where the additional elections are held. That's the way it is with us. Now transporters, keep an eye on, you who have this extra-line transport, if you want to avoid the very unfortunate provisions of this law, everyone in the building where the ministries are, on that floor that is capital, sign up, wait order, tell who you are, what you are, file your ID card, bring out all the information about your company, prepare in advance for the inspectors to bypass your vehicles. As a sign of recognition can be a blue flag with yellow stars, it always passes. If you put the EU flag on it, it will hardly be necessary for the inspector to apply this law in a rigorous way, because there is a danger that you are in connection with the European Court of Human Rights, that this inspector may be called. So be careful. This is the flow of democracy, taking away the vehicle. You can have your photo taken neatly with confirmation. If you count on a misdemeanor procedure or a procedure for economic crimes to succeed, you won't, I guarantee you immediately at the beginning. There must be a penalty here, and only one against whom no action has been initiated succeeds in these proceedings. In order not to initiate the procedure, this is a public call for you to report to the competent ministry, to act preventively so that these supplements do not apply to you. But, you know, when the election campaign starts, then you won't be referred to by that first member, proof of payment, if you're driving a new and, of course, a new coalition that needs to finish your job, you take the risk of driving orchestras, singers, membership, sandwiches, cokes, beer, Gucci is guaranteed, and there you all have to drive free of charge, so you know. If by any chance you dare to say something, you can't take it anymore, then you'll pass as a payment ramp. So, in this country, one single payment ramp is the Ministry of Capital Investment and the state can save a lot of money if it removes Bubanj Potok, there's no need for these payment payments. Nemina 22-26, the appropriate floor, log in neatly to the secretary, wait in line, have three minutes, the man is too busy and will send you to the assistant from Pancheva who is bright and dressed, the drawer exists, the contract is taken out, the records and it's all over. You will also be obliged to listen to certain CDs in your trucks and buses, not every music. It just has to be precisely legally prescribed music that fits the hepening in the square in Chačka with fireworks. In the next stage, count on every seat to have a television set to monitor the transmission. It is the ultimate range of the capital government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28975	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must complete Mr. Krasic's presentation because the rest is unarranged. It was about hepening, but it wasn't about the rally, it was about the birthday. We're used to celebrating birthdays, celebrating so many years on May 25th, I forgot what this date is, but history will record it. On May 25th, we celebrated in Belgrade, and now this celebration has moved to a city in the interior just behind Gornji Milanovac, I assume you know. It was fireworks, it was hepening, it was singing giant folk music, and it was a birthday boy flying a plane over Chuck. If we ask why, he probably wanted to see all his houses in Chačka from a bird's perspective, or maybe he was killing an aerophobia, because he's aware he's about to have to leave the country for the crime he's committed here, and the fastest means to get out of the country is the plane. Let's go back to the hepening itself. It's okay to celebrate birthdays, I just hope deep down that they won't decide that even the pioneer tissues in a certain color hang on their MPs' necks. I know one, I don't want to name him so he won't rephrase to me, whose pioneer scarf would look so good. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if by any chance the minister were here today, perhaps being treated by aerophobia, he may also have to lie still for a while, but if he were there, I would ask him why six months after the parliamentary questions, and I think there were three parliamentary questions only from the SRS parliamentary group, related to cable televisions spreading across Serbia, which are from his ministry. He answered in time – no one controls them, these are companies that have entered the country into the wild and have done a completely parallel system, it is dangerous that they have entered every home with optical cables and have fully developed a telecommunications system parallel to the state's part so that they can turn on the Internet and have all entered the company cable TV, and they can go to fixed telephony tomorrow, which is very dangerous at this point. Further says the minister - I recently spoke with the prime minister and with the people responsible for this part and with the finance minister to introduce order and to take away some work permits or sell, or rent what they use in Serbia. How are you gonna take away their work permits if they're in the wild? Why don't you run a second ministry called the Ministry of the Interior so it can finish the job, shut them down and arrest any winemakers, unless it's that drawer Mr Krasic was talking about, or maybe pay VAT on that system – give it half to Veli. This is how they get in, they develop the network, they set the prices themselves, they do what they want, they raise funds, they share extremely large funds, and they make huge profits from this country, and they pay no one in the country. What has been created for some years, as many of the very suspicious NGOs with huge resources have entered Serbia and have been encouraged to develop a completely parallel system in these cities that is extremely valuable at this point and the state must react to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28977	Mr. Markovic, would you like a word about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28978	I'm going back to the amendment. I have, Mr. Chairman, plenty of time to go back and explain the amendment. I'm asking Mr. Minister why he didn't do anything. Furthermore, the SRS asked for May 25th, we sent an emergency to the Ministry of Capital Investment and asked for an insight into the document on which Dragana Đuric wrote on which reasons as president did not sign a report by a working group that worked in March 2004 to arrange ownership relations in the company "Mobtel". The capital investment ministry did not respond to four SRS requirements. We also sent a memo to the information officer. The trustee ordered the Ministry of Capital Investment to respond, but it didn't respond. Furthermore, the solution of the information trustee says: it requires the Ministry of Capital Investments to stay without delay and no later than three days from the day of receipt of this solution enables an insight into the written request of the Ministry of Capital Investments sent by JP "PTT Transport" to give consent to the memorandum on the agreement of JP "PTT-Serbia" and the owner of "Mobtel". We didn't get that either, no matter what the trustee's warrant for the information was of particular importance. Also, we have not received yet, regardless of four or five letters, why Mrs Dragana Đuricic, as president of the working group of the Ministry of Capital Investments, has not signed a report with conclusions. Let's get back to the amendment at last. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment requesting that Article 3(2) be deleted. Article 3 paragraph 2 reads: "The temporarily withdrawn vehicle used to carry out the infringements from a commercial offence shall be kept until the infringement, i.e. the procedure for commercial offences, on the cost of the owner, or on the person from whom it has been temporarily taken away". Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the end of the economic offense, a judicial solution in a court of economic crimes can take years. We have spoken in all the amendments so far that these vehicles should not be taken away. If that vehicle is held for a year on the cost of the owner, then the owner may automatically give up that vehicle because the costs will exceed the value of that vehicle. On the other hand, that businessman couldn't do something about it. Whatever ministry proposes a bill would always be controlled, punished, played by judges, prosecutors and police. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the voting day, press the green button when this amendment is concerned and those who are barely putting an end to the end release this imposition that this ministry has made for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28979	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28980	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Markovic Moma in front of the SRS has well explained and pointed to the consequences of this standard of seizing the vehicle. In just a few words, I would draw attention to the promoter that the bill should provide for a time-limit for the conduct of the infringement proceedings proposed in Article 3, which means that, if the vehicle is withdrawn, Mr Markovic must be taken care of where the vehicle will be placed; secondly, who will guard it; thirdly, until the end of the infringement procedure, how long the procedure takes. The duration of the infringement will also depend on the damage to the owner of the vehicle, which, as proposed, has committed an offence under this law. In view of the case-law that infringements can be conducted for even years, the bill had to set a time limit within which a first-degree and second-degree solution must be made, in order to prevent abuse and prevent the result of unnecessary damage to citizens. It is known in practice that in the last ten years thousands of cars have been taken away from us in criminal and criminal proceedings, that cars have been parked in parking lots or even in unsecured places, in front of individual bodies, whether it is Carina, the police, whether the traffic resort, the competent inspection, but there is no responsibility for the damage that is taking place. You have the opportunity to make sure that a large number of vehicles have been taken from our citizens, that those vehicles ended up in waste, because the process has been conducted for years and they've collapsed and so the citizens suffer damage. I've had the opportunity to make sure that a large number of vehicles were taken away, but that the procedure lasted as many years. Because the proposing does not propose that parliament limit, if it wants to norm and sanction this area, it must set a deadline within which a first-degree and second-degree solution must be reached. On the other hand, this provides the possibility of various abuses, and these abuses are also possible by all those who are expected to be able to impose penalties, i.e. they can make such decisions and intervene in road traffic. What a illogicality in the line and vane transport of passengers, that this one is obliged to conclude the contract as soon as five passengers enter. It can also conclude an oral contract, under the Law on Liabilities, without being controlled, because the law allows for a oral contract. If he's not here, then it means the police and the traffic inspector are taking appropriate measures. Citizens who deal with this transport will now be so punished and damaged, that this is an attack on that barely surviving poor woman and that the only way out is to see if she can deal with this activity, because she is allowed by the Constitution. If a man bought a vehicle for 10,000 euros and engaged in road transport in such a way as is proposed, and for a simple offense he now needs to be taken away from the vehicle, and that's all he has from his family's assets. What I wanted to draw your attention to, I'm surprised that these days neither the Government nor the Assembly discusses nor mentions farmers and harvests, nor the ransom price of wheat. This is what our citizens at this time and how interested they are, because many have sown wheat, although in smaller quantities and areas compared to previous years. Isn't that right, Mr. Miko Vlaovic? You are a people's messenger and a farmer. You know it better than I do. The SRS thinks the priority should be agriculture at the moment. The harvest, which is currently on the threshold and already on track, should also make sure that both the Government and this Parliament are concerned about increasing the cost of buying out wheat and agricultural products and thus helping our farmers to see some of the benefits of their work. I ask again, Miko, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28981	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28982	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many use this pay phone for much less important things than agriculture and wheat, so I'm going to abuse it right now. Please don't count my time, because maybe in three minutes, I won't be able to tell you everything. The sick story is the harvest of wheat and the price of wheat and this story is much older than 2006. For example, as a farmer and a man, for years, we had "The Festival of Mimosa" when the cheerleaders came dressed in uniform and defiled the streets of the cities of Serbia, and "The Days of Harvest" were not celebrated, and even the prayer of the Father mentions "our daily bread". A farmer in Serbia, it was once known when a piece of bread fell to the ground to lift him up, clean him up, cross him, kiss him and eat him. There have been many false saints in the situation where the country is now waving healing grasses and offering various solutions, among other things it's the province government headed by Bojan Pajtic, who waved at the plane tickets here Neda Arneric and said she came in a taxi to vote, and she voted from Bodrum. They stole votes, and that's why they didn't answer. The man who's supposed to be in prison is head of the circuit assembly. And they say -- the state needs a budget to separate 5,000 per hectare to pay farmers. I'm a farmer, my sons and I have 50 ha of land. It would suit me if I got 5,000 a hectare. However, I know the other side of the medal, that these 5,000 should be taken back from all citizens of Serbia by tax and given to someone. I think these fake saints protect the trade, the baker's and the milling lobby that makes enormous money on the wheat, and the peasants take the soul at the price. From October 2003 to July 2004, since it was a weak breed of wheat, wheat had a price on the market of 14 to 15 dinars. The loaf of bread was like 25,00 dinars now. Not that nobody closed the mill or the bakery, but new mills were built and new bakeries opened. I urge farmers not to give anyone wheat for 12,00 dinars. Whoever doesn't have warehouses, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture is paying to store 750 per tonne. I understand, and knowing the peasant soul that it's the first dinar that farmers are supposed to get this year, but still consider gentlemen farmers, what would have happened if the city had beaten the wheat. Wait only a month and the price of wheat must be greater than 12,00 dinars. There's something else I'd like to order to the mill and the bakery industry and the mall lobby. A lot of things have been destroyed in this country and brought to a beggar stick. Don't try to destroy what still remains the only and important resource – agriculture. Understand, let's make some money at the mill and in the bakery a little less, but save that farmer, too, because that's the source from which you draw the profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28983	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, you should have insisted today that the Minister of Capital Investments appear here because we are talking about amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic and that with our arguments and superiority of what we are saying, above all, as honest, honorable and moral people, we prove to the protectors of the people's interests that in this area, as well as everyone else that is under the authority of his ministry, we understand better than he does. We've already shown him that we understand perfectly about the disclosure of the asphalt and road mafia, so much data so far and on the traffic and communications committees, and through buying enormously high prices, or given prices for second-hand locomotives, and for all other machinations, false promises from the municipality to the municipality, wherever they appear. And you know enough, just to get the minister to come when that day or his yellow minute, to show up, and really in one minute to sit in a seat for the authorized promoter, and nicely here in front of the general public says who he consulted, does he have any lawyers within his ministry, is that this gentleman sitting here, who we don't know who he is and who he represents the ministry? Because if anyone understood it and who reads the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all the positive legal regulations that we have, he would not have advised Minister Velya – the capitalist, he would not have come before the MPs with such a law, because this is pure hiducium and pure kidnapping that is being prepared alongside the "stealing", as he says, in an affair on the highway payment ramp. Every time I leave Belgrade, I make a joke, and I tell these guys in the drum stream, when I ask them to give me a transport card, it'll be real. They smile because now these new ones, not those who "steal" as Velya told them not to catch them, but people who probably know that it was always a crime, but that they had protection from the minister, and that they were simply silent about such obvious malfeasances and what is being prepared for this, in the right sense of words, to disproved people – car drivers and taxi drivers, no one will be able to accept, and no big protests about it. My amendment concerns infringements in the basic law relating to Article 6 or Article 36(1). You see what this is all about, since I don't believe that you from the governing structures, as many of you as there are, don't have these changes in front of you, and I don't think you have them in addition to the law, let alone the basic law. But since I know almost the whole basic law, like any radical, and all the other laws and things that change, now let me tell you that it is a matter of the way in which an application for road transport is submitted, and that Article 6 is taxing out what that legal person, or potential user of a transport line must own. Article 36(1) defines the role of units of local self-government in the award of licenses to carry out taxis. And now, since a monopoly has obviously been created in every city in Serbia by the mayors, the president of the municipality, the city authorities, those who do so on the issue of transportation permits in taxis, just to tell you that in Kragujevac, many people have to deal with it and are mostly young people whose first job is because they do not have, mainly have a secondary but higher education, the flag engineers who have lost their jobs, a variety of other people from different educational profiles, the old structures that you now say, according to this law, if local city authorities, in the case of Kragujevac – Stevanović do not give them permission, or have their number to work in that quota, their vehicle will be taken away. And the fact that those with that poor 200-euro church interns barely bought a second-hand vehicle, and then saw how rational it would be for them to install that gas so they could drive, so the device to pay, buy a cab counted, get a little makeup and equipment, so they could apply to a company that already has a license, you don't care. How, then, do these people who protest Serbia and Serbia for days have their own association in Kragujevac, allow them to allow the Ministry and the Government and to advocate Velimir Ilic to normally register their vehicles that have Montenegrin plates, when those who have, regardless of how old the fleet is, and mostly older taxi vehicles, want to take them away. Where did you get the right to do something like that? You know, it's a violation if a traffic inspector does his job and finds that someone in violation of Article 6 of the basic law, Article 36(1), is going to do this job. There is no permit for such a thing and for that there is a law of certain fines. The inspector comes, the punishment is from-to, the look at what it's about, on the application of an anonymous person or known person, it doesn't matter, but to take away someone's basic means of working, and yet you say – it's not his basic means of working because he committed these violations. When he was buying, he didn't ask you if he was going to be a basic tool for his work, but with the best intention of getting into such a solution, to start doing that job. You want to talk a little bit about lobbying in your ministry to get permission to run an intercity transport? If we start to present these data, you know what kind of malfeasances these are and what kind of velimir Ilic is running, it could never have happened during Mr. Dragan Todorovic's ministry and his later successor, Mr. Marcetic. Everything was regular. I remember the names of those people, not to mention them now. Those who worked in both the federal and the republican ministries were referents for the job. Don't laugh, but listen if you want to hear something out of the wheat you're talking about and get real information. As for these and these fines, it's not a dragon penalty, it's a question of whether in any country in the world exists. First you have to face it, sir, that you've come here, you can't even talk, like all the predecessors of all these days before you, bring people here, sit here as mummies, listen to what we're saying, one gentleman in the hall told me – I'd have a lot to say, really, and for most of the things you're right and something to supplement, but it's not worth it, I don't have the right to talk. Then you should be the minister, not Velimir Ilic, the one who will not come and does not respect the National Assembly, what he has to send you. You better be chosen, you want to, you understand what this is about, whether you accept our criticism or not, but face the problem people are going to have right now. Think about the fact that several hundred thousand people now because of such a decision by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Capital Investment can't solve their problem with these cars, but to throw them into the old iron. All these people, and above all every sincere patriot here in Serbia and Montenegro, could not have expected such slyness to be set up by the Republic government without the President of the Republic being interested in the survival of the SCG state union. This, as he is called, Boris - a thief, is so, another friend of this mobster, Trizon, in the separation campaign, which has succeeded the separatists of Milo Djukanovic with the help of the Cypriot incompetent voices and all those machinations, Lajcak and Lipka, to separate the Serbian Republic from its queen. He was saying -- I don't know, you know, I didn't go there, I went there the last time I was a kid, they carried me in a crib, or after he walked. That's how we have the President of the Republic. If you are a serious man and if there are more serious people in this ministry, and everyone in Serbia can be more serious than Velimir Ilic, every citizen you point at is more serious than Velimir Ilic and every man who is for the first time today in one political party is a better politician than Velimir Ilic. Because in order for Velimir Ilic's criteria to be a good politician, you have to eat, drink and curse well, and all the other people who don't, and members of any political party, are really serious people. I think you are such a man, and you should have thought about these amendments and what's going to happen today. Here, it will buzz the press for days and citizens won't be able to understand that someone has even thought of today in the 21st century, in 2006, passing a law that will take away his basic means of work, his property. At the end of the day, they will pay, if necessary, upon the findings of the inspector, or the competent inspectorate, the punishment he is due to pay for the offences committed, and whether he will have it as an exhibit in his backyard, what he will do, whether he will take it somewhere and what the fate of that vehicle will be, you cannot decide in such a way. Now, if that happens, God forbid, but here's the hypothetical, since you've ordered these people, close to 200,000, from 150,000 to 200,000 with vehicles from Montenegro, to throw everything to waste, how are you going to solve that question? Then the dumps in Serbia will be your biggest problem. Obviously, because there will be so many cars, now and the bus, you will throw everything alive into dumps, to store who knows where, as you take people's vehicles, or this service at the level of the city of Belgrade, parking services in Kragujevac, I see it the other day, it's there on the road to the Kingdom, who knows how many cars and whenever I pass, after a few days standing there. They don't have people to pay. That's 2,500-3,000 dinars. Where to pay people, when they don't get paid, but there, it stops at the edge or by accident, he says, he keeps explaining that he's only been here five minutes, he's been taken away and put there in the parking lot. It may somehow be expensive to get it back, but it is obvious here that there is no vomiting, that it will be permanently taken away by a bus, a van, his car, and that you have decided in such a way that you will once again show all your passion and haughtiness and that you do not care about the citizens of Serbia at all. Instead of making it possible for some more favourable credit arrangements to enable people to rebuild rolling stock, to perform in the proper way of transforming, i.e. privatising these enterprises that are in social property and that you have done this seriously, as SRS MPs who are members of the Committee on Business and Privatisation, in relation to the robbery privatisation of Autotransport Kraljeno and Vranjska Banja and everywhere in Serbia, then you would see that this fleet that people have so many years old is also old. Even these privates who collect some money to buy a couple of buses or get together, because they are not at the will of the government or some of the inspectors there, take away the buses, take away their right to live, and you're all done, because you're still the government, you're still ministers, the Vela is still "powerful and powerful", but it's only a question as far as. A few more months, and then you'll see that there will be a completely different picture in Serbia. Never again will it occur to anyone, by the arrival of Serbian radicals to power, that such scandalous laws, first of all this is pure robbery, kidnapping, Hajducia, whatever you want to call, bring before the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28985	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Ambassador Momir Markovic, you have a minute and a half, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28986	I'll have enough, Mr. Chairman. While we're discussing whether or not the poor girl who bought the van and the transports are going to take that van, whether or not we're going to give it right to the inspector to take the vehicle away from the man, to keep his family without bread, and while I remind you, we passed the Law on the ban on piracy. This is a typical form of piratery, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but as we discuss it, yesterday we mentioned the Trizon affair, we forgot to say something else. Trizon escaped, though, he said – I have to go to the bathroom, he didn't say he was going to the bathroom in Latin America, they let him go, he ran away. But there are others from that joint criminal enterprise, there are those who signed the contracts themselves, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. There is someone who is now the chairman of the NIS Management Board, formerly the director, his name is Zeljko Popovic, and he signed all the contracts with the Trizon. Why don't the police arrest him? I'm asking Minister Jocic. Why don't the police catch this other signator, so he doesn't get away too? Furthermore, this chairman of the Management Board, in addition to being harassed, is otherwise a respected member of the "yellow company", or DS, and on that basis has come to the post of director and now the chairman of the Management Board, and he has made such powers for the chairman of the board, conveyed all the powers he had as director. (President: Mr. Markovic, time is up. I'm sorry, I'll just be another half minute and I'll be done. So, 50 million dinars he has the right to deploy to donations and sponsorships, advertising, propaganda, so ask why this yellow Gilasu, the one that only took six million euros, how did he get 5.5 billion dinars of income in a year? It's right from Popovic. Only four more names to mention from that joint criminal enterprise and I'm leaving right now. There is also Srdjan Mihajlović, who came from Vojvodjanska banka to the director; Smiljana Cvikic, were directly brought by Lazarevic and Hamovic to "NIS" to do the job; Srboljub Blagojevic, who was a retired military person shot by the military and then joined the yellow company – DS and then on that basis came there and there was another member of the yellow company, otherwise one of the largest, if we were to build who took as much in this company, I mean "NIS", then Mihajlović must come at least in second place, if not first. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an incredible robbery is happening right now in the NIS, and we're talking about whether or not we're giving the Inspector the right inspector, if this law is passed, to meet you and to take your car where you are, or the van where you loaded two sacks of potatoes to transport your neighbors, because you're not authorized to do that. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to exceed my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28987	Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Branislav Stevanovic and Vjerica Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28988	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today, at the beginning of this afternoon's work, my colleague Momir Markovic intervened in the Rules of Procedure because of the absence of the minister from the hall, or from this session, and we must indeed do so every day and more in the day to mention it because of the citizens of Serbia who are following the work of this Parliament and we cannot accept the explanation that the minister has a shorter job than sitting in this parliament today, as we cannot accept even the argument that in this assembly where MPs who are sitting for all government proposals are sitting, even if this unconstitutional proposal is what we are discussing today, that this part of the hall is half-empty, as we cannot accept a fact, so I am speaking solely for the public, that we have got about twenty papers here today, so much we got yesterday, all these reports of the Legis Committee. So, the total waste of this paper and the time and energy of the people who did this, the Legislative Committee had to end this during the debate on amendments and the laws to which this applies. Indeed, this is the way of working is to belittle the National Assembly, to insult the dignity and intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia, that today the Legislative Committee is giving a report on the Law on Free Zones, the salaries of civil servants and the ID card, and we don't remember any more when. So, fellow MPs, it is indeed high time that you, too, who support the government, drew attention to the government that this is no longer possible to treat the MPs, let them do what would really be good and meaningful at this moment, and that is – let them resign more, because it is obvious that you do not have a majority for the Legislative Committee, let alone for the parliamentary vote. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic spoke here about these cars, i.e. the owners of cars that have Montenegrin license plates and the threat of Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that these cars, the other day Parivodić said, even those people were called hohstuplers or some ugly expression he used for all those citizens who bought those cars and said – they can now throw them free to waste. I just want to add why the government does business this way, that is, why can't it deal with these people and this problem? Because simply the government of the Republic of Serbia is not interested in Serbian citizens. It was important that the government, unconstitutionally, in some way only knownly extends its function automatically, i.e. the mandate of Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic, those who can sit in the Serbian government, and the citizens who sincerely hoped to continue to be one state, should bear the consequences and break cars on them, because the state does not think of registering cars that they bought in one country at the time. So, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on this road traffic law applies to Article 6 and I suggested that this member be deleted, and that Article 6 applies to Article 53a of the basic law. The 53a of the basic law says that a fine of 10 to 50,000 dinars or a prison sentence of up to 30 days will punish a natural person carrying out public transport of passengers and things, and is not registered for carrying out these types of transport. It is added here that the protection measure for the withdrawal of vehicles used for the execution of the offence is mandatory for the infringements of Article 1 of this Article. One of the previous members said that the confiscation takes place until the end of the misdemeanor procedure and, of course, the cost of the owner. This cannot survive and remain, because an unconstitutional provision, such as the unconstitutional behavior of Parking Services, is those that take away vehicles, or drive vehicles if they are parked in an unauthorized place and to take your vehicle, you have to pay about 6,000 dinars. The other day, the Constitutional Court ruled that this decision, or regulation, was unconstitutional, but in this country, no one is interested in the Constitution or the law anymore. You do as you think, by an emergency procedure, something that is not urgent at all, you bring, or the government suggests, and you bring unconstitutional laws on this side, and I just don't know how much longer you're going to behave like that. You are not interested in the real problems of Serbian citizens. There are no comments here, nor do we have in the media, nor does the government comment on the price of wheat, nor does it comment on where 100 dwellings of wartime wartime people are lost, or the funds derived from a donation. So such things, which are indeed in the interests of Serbian citizens, are not in the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia. But that is why this private law of Velja Ilic and Nenad Bogdanović is certainly an obvious interest and, of course, it violates all possible rules, all possible laws, the Constitution above all, and then it is said in this law that the way of confiscation, preservation and handling of the vehicle taken away is prescribed by the minister. Imagine this universal tragedy that Vela Ilic prescribes confiscation, ways of taking away, keeping, dealing with these hijacked vehicles. And by what criteria and when will Velja Ilic determine these criteria? After 10 or 11 bottles of beer? I watched yesterday in a newspaper how a man looks twisted with a bottle in his hand and a beer, really scary. What will be the criteria for taking the vehicle? Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a terrible mistake, not only with this law, but also with the majority of the Youth's tax laws. The failure of the state and the absence of the will of the competent state authorities to do their job properly is being dealt with by the government in such drastically repressive measures. We know, of course, what the essence is and why this law is passed and similar laws. These are always the results of some agreements, some magical arrangements, but we keep warning you that it's not good. If you want to regulate transport in road traffic, then engage the inspectors nicely, let the inspectors do their job, but let them do it either by their grandmother or by their uncles, in accordance with the law, and you won't need anyone to take the vehicle away. You have the legal opportunity to establish certain criteria, to respect these criteria, to clear cities from illegal carriers and, of course, not to harm citizens as you predict these laws. My people, who has the right to commit an offence that normally costs 10,000 to 50,000 dinars, withdraws a vehicle worth maybe 10,000 euros or a truck or a bus 50, 30, I don't know what it costs, thousands of euros. It's simply not acceptable and it's very unserious that the government has dared to suggest something like this. What are you gonna do, I'm surprised you haven't suggested yet, if a truck is carrying wheat that's paid for more than nine dinars, it's taking away both the truck and the wheat. How can someone pay more than nine dinars? As long as it really takes to be the price of wheat, it doesn't interest anyone in the Serbian government, not that ex-minister, not this minister, not that minister, not that sounding, not that they don't care, I don't just know if they know the harvest's started, do they know what time of the year it's even been done? Or, for example, you could have suggested, if someone crossed the street past the pedestrian crossing – arrest or shooting at the scene. What's he got going past the pedestrian crossing? What are you going to do if someone goes over speed? You're taking the vehicle. Instead of the authorities doing their job, to prevent these things from being prevented, you wait for the offence to be committed, and then to punish and punish selectively. Here's who can, of course there's no Velija Ilic, but also that he couldn't guarantee it, and where he can guarantee something at all that this law is really going to be applied the way it's written and that it's really going to be applied to everyone. No, of course not, but someone there will be marked on whom to measure, someone else will continue to work beyond that and who cares what the law says. Of course, no one also, when I say no one, I mean these representatives of the government, is saying that the illegally acquired property of these members of the road mob will be seized. How will the illegally earned property acquired by Velja Ilic be seized by the citizens of Cačka and later by all of Serbia? How will those houses mentioned by a woman who appeared on a TV show where Velja Ilic was a guest be taken away? The lady said: Mr. Ilic, I suggest that one of the streets in Chačka be called your name, and he says so happily – which street, madam, and the lady says – any one of those where you have a house you've built by robbing the citizens of Chačka. How, and on the basis of what regulations will Boris take away the property - the thief acquired from the money he stole from the Trizon that escaped, he did not actually escape, he probably came for the man Boris Tadic with his world and drove him to some hiding place, how would he be taken away from the property and the 37 million euros that he would likely share with the Trizon? So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not a good idea for you to support a government proposal like this. You as the parliamentary majority, the few of you sitting here, the most persistent, and those who are not there, are not good at supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia in unconstitutional solutions. Make the government, because they depend on you. As long as they have your 126 votes, they will destroy Serbian citizens like this. Make them, if you already support them, make sure they pass constitutional laws, protect Serbian citizens and return the state's reputation to the laws, and not to continue to undermine the reputation of the state that has been in drastic decline since 2000 until today and every day more and more collapses, and that, of course, by crime at the top of government, crime in the government, by the crime of Boris -- thieves and his tycoons, and in this way should the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, the MPs. So, accept these amendments and don't let a law like this get into legal traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28989	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28990	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 6. I have submitted the draft legislation on road transport in accordance with the previous amendments, and I believe that I have said quite enough why I am against this bill, and the key reason is the creation of a monopoly. And I wonder what kind of society we create in this way, let's say, one that, with a few thousand euros, cannot develop any private business, not only under this bill, but also many others, which I have previously listed. I would use a few minutes on this amendment by asking two MPs questions. I spoke earlier about the conditions of bus transport in Serbia at all, especially in the Belgrade-Lazarevac route. I ask the parliamentary question – in which way the government and the resolution ministry should resolve the privatisation of "Laste" and "Lastre", Belgrade's Laste" and Lazarjeva's "Lastre", which have extremely bad relations with each other and unregulated property-legal relations, and therefore daily transport costs more than 3,000 of our citizens to two bus stops that have not been made on the Ibar Masteral, where frequent traffic accidents occur. I'd like to get an answer to this question. The second question, since I mentioned police checkpoints in several places in Serbia, would ask the Serbian government and the resolution ministry to answer me, which is why these police checkpoints exist in the first place, and when it is planned to remove them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28991	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28992	I have to, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I don't have my own newspaper and I have nowhere to publish, and apparently some other political parties have their own newspapers and have a lot to publish, there's someone blacked out in the paper today, says Trizon: I'm not a criminal, and there's no photo, there's nothing. He looks like Boris, a thief. He says: I am not a criminal, and immediately a political party appears who says – Vukic is a fat liar. It's like you're lying too much or I don't know how. They must have learned to steal fresh and fat. "The bank of the Serbian coconut in the United States is resolutely denying the accusations of Alexander Vukic." All I said, for the sake of the public, is the absolute truth, only there was money in cash, and there was a trail here, so he had to confess to the cocus, which is not a Serbian cocus, it is Tadic's cocus because their first point is how Tadic can beat the SRS, not that Kosovo can't be independent. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to tell you, I am obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia, but I wouldn't mind. I'm against the fact that the oil industry of Serbia has been damaged, as a stock is given oil to withdraw a loan from two banks, I think the Hipo Bank and HVB, but you'll only hear that, because I came out to tell you that it's going to be very serious material just to show up. So, I have some information that's scary about that, but I don't want to bring them out in public yet, because as you know, I like to check, get black on white, I like to get paper, and then we're going to show up to the people what really happened, who gave credit, under what conditions, how oil disappeared, what really happened, and how many Serbian citizens were damaged. I don't have any problem, just let them attack Alexander Vukic, let them attack the SRS, know the people why they're attacking us, and why those who have managed Serbia for seven years, who destroy it in every way, rob citizens of Serbia, just because they know that they've come close to various thieves from the top of the government and that they know they'll have to end up behind bars. Let them make whatever arrangements they want, in the way they want, I can't and can't talk about names anymore because it would be pressure on the future judiciary, pressure on some future interior ministry, but you know what people are talking about, so let them think whether it's true or not, whether this is true or not. Those who are posted to the job should be well asked why yesterday in a bank was a complete ruse because of what I was saying so that it could be checked out exactly who those who at that time had approved certain loans. A little more patience and you'll get some serious papers and you'll see what it's all about. I find that interesting, "I'm not a criminal." Of course, he's not a criminal until the verdict has proved that, he has the right to say something like that, but I find the title below that interesting – the Trizon is released from custody, so now you look at what it's all about. Either way, we'll fight them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28993	Mr. Krassic, on what basis are you looking for a word? It's still a serious home. The same text is when you say "Article 6 is deleted." and "Article 6 is deleted." According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28994	I have to inform the public, I've got this famous material from this thief's block that has been handed over to the SRS, a thief's block that consists of the Democratic Party and another party from the Serbian government, a foreigner. They say Ambassador Alexander Vukic, that's proof that we must be a bad party. "And that coolant you're talking about is a special con that serves to satanize the entire Serbian people, and that you don't know what happened, and you want the whole Serbian people to accuse of a crime and that all Serbs have to answer for it." You see, Mr. Chairman, criminal sentences? They also say: a source – a session of the National Assembly since 28 May 2001. I'm proud of what you've put on, really proud, overjoyed, thank you very much, to see that I understand how much anti-Serbian politics you're leading and what you're all prepared to do in this country. Thank you for that. And Natasha's here. Imagine what she said about true national politics and the Shiptar terrorists. You shouldn't have told Natasha about it. I suppose you should have talked about Serbian terrorists, Serbian terrorists Gabriel Principe, Karadjordz, Milos Obrenovic. Thank you, Mr. Mihailovic, just to thank your coalition partners for doing so, they did well, as well as those from the thief's bloc led by Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party, only let them do their job and let them beat us, as they say, but let them discuss these elections, so they can beat us once and see how it will explain it to the people and what the people will say, and the people think not little but much different.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28995	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branislav Stevanović and Aleksandar Djordjevic submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a road transport law and request that article 7 be deleted. In the explanation given, the amendment stems from the previous amendments submitted to Articles 4, 5 and 6. It's a bill of law. So, the practice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Vojislav Kostunica and led by the DSS with its coalition partners, and in this case by the proposal to supplement the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, has shown citizens of Serbia, and we are talking about this speaker for the sake of the citizens of Serbia to hear what laws are being passed in this assembly, and laws that go to the detriment of Serbian citizens are being passed, extremely imprecise, indiscriminate, laws on public roads, railways, planning and construction, where there was no concept, programme etc. So, the law in force, which was passed several months ago, as my party colleagues have said, is already today's proposal, which we are discussing, to supplement this current Law on Road Traffic, which is about the nature of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the DSS and its coalition partners at the expense of Serbian citizens. If you had a clear programme, you would have been away a few months ago when the current law you voted in this assembly by the will of your narrow majority, and we hope that after the election and the elections held, you will be far from the authorities, because you have done a lot of bad things for the citizens of Serbia, by the very fact that you are constantly proposing to us, as my colleague for this speaker has said, unconstitutional laws. What are the consequences of the adoption of a supplement of the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, where you predict that some members are changed in criminal provisions, complemented in a way that suits you and shows the nature of the authorities of DSS and G17 plus, as well as all those parties that support the ruling majority in the Assembly. So, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport will vote with the will of the majority, but the fact is that, as I mentioned, all the previous laws that you have passed, you have boasted about this speaker and the means of public informing that your ruling coalition has passed over 200 laws in the past two and a half years, and in this law, as well as in all other laws, you have shown that you have passed these laws at speed, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not have a clear concept in legislation, in any area of social life in the Republic of Serbia, which was very important. When you were building a government, you had to have a clear program for all areas and legislation, which you obviously didn't. I won't repeat myself, not to say everything that my colleagues in the SRS have said clearly and precisely, but that's what they said, as I'm saying, for the sake of the Serbian citizens hearing what kind of bill you're making here. This amendment to the law that you propose to the National Assembly, which will be passed by the majority, is not a proposal that will correct the current law that you passed eight months ago. This law on transport in road transport, which is in force and these supplements you propose to the National Assembly, is in line with how the Minister of Capital Investments, who here speaks in a primitive way to the MPs when he is present in the Assembly, but it reflects his education and his way of treating the National Assembly and the MPs who make up this assembly. So, today there is no minister present, and he was obliged to be in this room, to hear all the remarks on this proposal to supplement the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. This shows all the nature of the government that rules the Republic of Serbia. The number of members of the ruling coalition now present in the hall also speaks about how important Serbian citizens are to you. What the SRS does behind this payphone for Serbian citizens is that it always warns them on time and draws attention to what you do to them. What we expect is that the sooner elections for the Republic's parliament will be announced, and that you will go to the wasteland of history, all of you who are making this ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28997	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28998	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for allowing me to exceed at least one minute of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u28999	Don't be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course this amendment should be accepted, as well as all amendments to the SRS, because that is the only way this law will look like a law, it will only be applicable and it will not be harmful to the citizens. An explanation which, in my view, is unambiguous, which is why the amendment is not accepted, says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the pronunciation of the vehicle for the execution of the commercial offence applies to the undertaking and other legal persons who illegally carry out public transport and transport for their own purposes, and therefore the withdrawn vehicle cannot be treated as a basic means of operation for those persons". You are a legal person, you have a kiosk that you supply with your van, ask your neighbor to overdo his sack of potatoes, meet you inspector, likes your vehicle, and then take it away temporarily, so long as the procedure is not completed, and the procedure, thank God, Mr. Jojic knows very well, can last for up to 15-20 years. As we discuss small matters, they robbed the state to its bones. I mentioned briefly that joint criminal enterprise gathered around Alibaba's cave, I mean the Serbian presidency, around the main thief, of course, the one who represents himself as the president of all Serbs, and his name is Boris - a thief, however, this is more of an interest to him than his last name, gathered around his chiefs, chiefs, etc., in conclusion with that Gilas, who was recently promoted due to effective work, because until he did six million euros, he could not become the president of the City Committee. In that criminal enterprise are all the ones I just listed and they're all with a party ID that has a yellow dot, i.e. with the ID of the DS. In order to get involved in the thieving, you have to be a Democrats first. I got two more faxes from Serbian citizens, so I'd like to read it. He says: "We inform you that Srboljub Blagojevic, two years ago, when he came to Nis from the army, forged documents. According to one paper sent by the military institution at the request of the NIS, he is a retired military person in the workplace – chief of fuel storage". Since he worked there with cans, canisters, possibly with fuel barrels, he's acquired a qualification to come to the post of one of the directors of the NIS. He was an oil man. Of course, he had to have a DS membership card. What is most important, not to read all this, I say – he is one of the participants in the "Trizon" affair and brought to the police. I ask Jocic why they let him go when they brought him in. Did he leave in the meantime? I ask why they don't bring in Vukcevic, Popovic, all the others who are in this yellow joint criminal enterprise? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the state is being robbed, and we're discussing whether or not someone will translate two sacks of potatoes. I think this is a devastation and it's a devastation of this institution in the dust. I suggest you adopt amendments to the SRS, including this law to pass you, but believe me, you're loading the SRS with a great burden on your back, because since September-October, we're going to have to put all these laws out of force and bring those who will be in the interest of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29001	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. On the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29002	This article requires that the law be complemented by Article 53b which essentially speaks about the powers of this inspector and how he should take care of the implementation of the protective measure of vehicle confiscation. It was the subject of an offence or the subject of a commercial offence. However, I would not now like to repeat the argument of this morning in which all these illegalities are seen, but a little commentary on some of the views from this pay phone. It was said in contesting the SRS amendment to abuse this pay phone. Probably this pay phone can be misused, but government members can't possibly abuse it because they're never here. Now the problem is in the next, for the people and the state is much better when ministers abuse this pay phone, not what they have left in the government building, on the street, etc. And the next amendment is very important, but it's about Article 7 and this amendment. You see how beautifully designed that is. I felt that only the Ministry of Finance grabbed these rigorous powers under the "Milo-Sabre" system, which is a well-known way of thinking in Montenegro. Put yourself on your knee or on a log, kill and justice is over, and neither is that knot that they couldn't solve, take the sword and finish the job. Now, it's not a problem if it's a sharp sword, whether a sword is an adequate tool, but in whose hands it is. See Article 3(3). – the method of confiscation, storage and handling of the vehicle referred to in Article 2(2) shall be prescribed by the Minister. So, when this law is passed within 30 days, it will bring a manual, a rule and it will be prescribed – the inspector is obliged when he stops the vehicle to tell the driver: good day, give me the contract, proof that it has been paid, thank you, let's see this second, well, right now, at the end of the day, sir, I have to tell you, I'm telling you a temporary measure, I'm taking it away, here's a confirmation, and then the minister using his powers, says – then the inspector is obliged to depend on it if the speed of 20 km is exceeded to take off the front two tires, if the vehicle is overloaded by the potato neighbor he connected, he is obliged to flatten the trunk so that it doesn't happen in the future that someone illegally puts a bag of potatoes. Anything is possible in such instructions by this minister, as he insists on a political scene thanks to one sentence and mental state. The sentence begins with the word "problem", and the mental state is defined as "Dear My Chacans, you have to choose me for something because you need those bad guys in Belgrade to have someone come to you, the president, and they're going to bring them to Nanina because they're all dragged there to Belgrade," and he's in a coalition with those from Belgrade. Of course, when that argument is exhausted, something that can look like that minister is taken faster and better and placed to be the president of the Cachak municipality. But that's already recognizable, it doesn't take much to talk about or waste any time. What's important for this moment? For this moment, it's important that there's one way of thinking. It could be hypothetically, I'll talk about it on the next amendment since I see the president's upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29003	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29004	This is Article 8, the preceding member of this draft law, and this article is said to be – the regulation of Article 3 of this Act will be adopted within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, and Article 3 in paragraph 2 shall be authorised by the Minister of Capital Investments to prescribe the way in which the vehicle referred to in Article 2 of this Article is withdrawn, stored and handled. So it's possible that Mr. Minister prescribed it, so he says, "The road traffic inspector, who is a member of that encrypted party, when he temporarily withdraws the vehicle is authorized to put it on use," it can be treated as a guard, as an act of conduct, you know we have a category and guardian of official apartments. This is what Zivkovic invented, remembers when he was a police minister, so he didn't know how, and he said, "This apartment is assigned to you, but you are obliged to guard it." How is it possible for the minister to prescribe a form of temporary seizing of the vehicle by allowing Nenadu Bogdanovic to complete his fleet, so if it is a van-trafficking, then he goes to the president of a coded parliamentary group, because he currently works on truck jobs and the formation of a truck transport company. All of this, President, I speak hypothetically, without the intention of mentioning the name, because you know yourself that some names for a living head do not want to be taken into my mouth, especially in the hands of that thing, but hypothetically speaking of how this authority can be interpreted, and given the mental set of faces that should be signed at the end of the rulebook or instructions, this situation is well-founded. So if the vans are taken away, it goes to the president of the encrypted parliamentary group, if the buses are taken, we can make a difference up to one floor and over one floor. If it is on two floors, it can be "Joli Turs" to complete it, and this up to one floor for city traffic at Nasha Bogdanovic, so we'll see if that company that was with SPO, "Lasta", etc., does not matter, it can also be considered this great manager Stanojevic. There's something going on here with the city-wide encryption, and I can see that these personnel changes are very significant. But I just want to draw attention that it's impossible to hide what's going on. Why? Because I'm so primitively simple as a man that in order to save Serbia and Serbia's national interests and the interests of Serbia's citizens, I don't mind putting my socks over my head overnight, I skip, I enter the parliamentary premises or the headquarters of a party, I collect documentation to know what this coalition is up to for foreigners. So I'm a very dangerous guy, give security to your party. (President: And that's hypothetical, right? Mr. Markovic, you don't need to worry, I'm just explaining that in advance I know what a sublegal act will be and so that they don't persecute some people within their own parties, call some of my friends from those parties, the people I'm hanging out with. That in the hallway is one dimension of political life that maintains our personal state and culture or non-culture. I'm putting a political stance here and saving these people in all parties. No one's my informant. I'm a bully. That's the picture. I don't want to spoil that picture. You put a nice picture of me, so it's quite possible for me to skip over the window on the fifth floor and sneak into the rooms of a political party and collect complete documentation so that I can prevent them from making that argument. So I came into possession of a huge amount of documents where I see my political opponents thinking. To get back to this, I didn't accuse Mr. Secretary of being in a coalition with the president of a coded parliamentary group about truck jobs and these things. I said I'm hypothetically drawing some conclusions, because it's possible, if you can see the mental closeness of two bright minds that think in the same way. If the knot can't be resolved, then it can also saber, it can be a knife. Furthermore, the hypothetical situation can be like this, if you use very good trucks and have that green "L" for transporting goods to a place where the Pancheva municipality is preparing for construction, Mr. Jojic, is that what the crematorium says? I'm warning the gentleman who brings a sublegal act to sanction such a thing, that kind of thing never happened in Serbia, that coded party has to take care of what it does, once they kicked that man out of the party, twice they didn't, third time defend him, for the fourth time he's their councilman. I'm just drawing attention, given that the major impact on the policy of the Ministry of Capital Investments has a significant figure in this ministry that comes from Pancheva and I'm preventative that this bar of yours doesn't get involved with what the crematorium is doing, because then you'll be collateral damage, and I know reliably that Jocic won't allow it. He won't allow it, building a crematorium and using a truck for those purposes, I'm absolutely sure of it. We ask that this member be deleted, because no one reasonable in this room, and also wider, and especially those who closely monitor the transfer, can be convinced that this sublegal act would be a normal legal act. Because if a vehicle is taken away in accordance with the discretionary powers given to these amendments, this addition to the Act, to any inspector, and even if it is salted by a warrant, you have to rule it out, you have to take away that vehicle, and especially if it starts rigorously to apply during the organisation and election, next rallying, etc., I get the impression that if there is no proof that the Municipality of Čačak, Nis or any other municipality has paid for the advance transport, their supporters are happy with burgers, cokes and beer on the bus will be beautifully transferred to the place where the concert with fireworks is organised. But this is a message to other transporters – you must not drive to rallys and other events members of other parties, because this does not fit the concept of a government that is full of democratic capacity, to change the election will of citizens in the bar through additional and subsequent elections. That's what we witness every day. You know, we'll probably get into a situation where we can control and ask the question -- do these asphalt bases when they move, or do these trucks when they transfer, have their transport contracts closed and whether they've paid up front for the transport costs? Let's see what it would look like to you if you could get into this law if someone independent applied it. I'd just like to distract you. After you, let some unhuman government come, as you think, whether they have the legitimacy to change your rules that you praise, even this one and these 250 and more, as Mr. Markovic would say, the most democratic regulations that the human mind could have imagined. How do you feel about this regulation being applied by the DS, whose prevention of coming to power is spiritually defended by the government of Vojislav Kostunica's Socialist Party. What do you think, hypothetically, pooh, pooh, don't move, never come back, come back to power again, and say, "We won't change your rules that you made while we were justifiably absent from the O.R., we'll apply those regulations. How do you think the transporters are gonna get through? That, gentlemen, has already been seen. The Nucleus of such behaviour in Belgrade was Vuk Draskovic when he agreed to move Djindjic, remove DS, take full power, and then you had those dances with carriers and those agreements and the application of regulations. It's always the one who breaks the regulation that calls for regulation. Never does he who breaks the rules, who makes an abuse, say: I did it because I wanted to, but always says – what you attack me is in accordance with the law. Look, a member of that and that, that attitude, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that Just to warn you, if you start by applying this regulation when you vote it, I call upon Mrs Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic and these great human rights guardians, to interpret this as a sacred example for which their regulation could be applied and to let you know, if this free zone, the yellow zone across the street, with what is in the performance that Michelle Platini is the best goalie on the globe, if they come, then Vesna Rakic will not lute you, but will castrate you all. Be absolutely sure of that. These are expressions of Serbian language, and none of these expressions are rude. And the expression of profanity is domestic, folkly, it is used in villages, veterinarians when going to do something, say – I ask the veterinarian to come and sharpen my boar and it is not a rude expression. Read some dictionaries, check it out. So this story of yours about the big democratic bloc is unsustainable. Not by yourself, and together you can't. If you're making these regulations, and then you get into a situation where you always have to support someone in the second round, and you'd rather cut your hand off than round the number in front of his name, you know that lustration and these criticisms will be against you, not against us. No, but based on our positions, they will challenge you. Our sentences and our compositions will be used when they are in power in the fight against you who have passed such a regulation, because, you know, there is an old saying – no one has burned until dawn, and so has she, to paraphrase, Hegel’s thought – everything that has failed, should not complain about it, because history has shown that it had to fail and that it could not be protected. Of course, I've paraphrased it a little. I call on the MPs and the authorities and the opposition, the MPs representing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through whom citizens exercise their sovereignty guaranteed by the Constitution, that these amendments be adopted, that this law should not be passed, because this is a law that normically creates the possibility of being abused as much as possible without any consequences and the application of this law, as you wrote it. They're afraid of people who are dealing with this activity, not because they've done something wrong or if they've done something wrong with the law, but because this stands as a great danger to the person who needs to apply the law, the person who has to follow the instructions, the rule we're talking about today, who we've submitted this amendment to, to create a basis for legalized abuse, which means that fear is spreading. Perhaps after the change of power in the Republic of Serbia, we will have to pass a law on the release of citizens from the fear that has been induced by the Dosmanian authority since 5 October. In the end, just to remind you of one thing, man is constantly in evolution, in development, it's no good when it's in power for those whose brains are stuck with the date – October 5th. Just to remind you, Milosevic is a dead man, long ago you've been in power, for 6 years, almost 60%, if it compares to a percentage of 1:0.6 -- in this respect, that power is in relation to this democratic best. So you've already spent half that time, and any comparison of this and any previous government, it's already inappropriate, and the crown proof is the incompetence of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29005	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. One little lesson, if you're voting against the law, you don't have to vote for the amendments, that's enough first. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Interim Mission of the United Nations on KOSOV in accordance with the Resolution 1244 OF the Security Council of the United Nations (single). You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. I owe you one explanation. So, after the Serbian government session began, Mr Naumov came forward and promised that the moment he freed his duties, he would arrive at the session, and at the same time I would inform you and read that the amendments were twice considered, and with what reasons, you will best explain it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29006	Since we have four amendments to this bill, it is unlikely that Mr. Naumov will arrive in the meantime, there must be some extraordinary session of the government and if they're possibly discussing the price of wheat, then that makes sense, but I'm afraid you, Mr. President, are misinformed, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29007	Please, Mrs. Radeta, for the dignity of the Assembly, I am certainly informed and certainly not, if I was clear enough, to discuss the price of wheat.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29008	You just before, when you were saying what law is now on the agenda, you read the name of the law very inexplicably, but I don't blame you, I'm going to read it loud and clear now, of course, for the sake of the public, what we are discussing in detail. Therefore, the proposal for a law on ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. This is therefore the proposal for a law that we are discussing in particular and according to which the MPs of the SRS have expressed their position by proposing that all members of this bill be deleted. Of course, since I suppose someone will comment again, maliciously certainly, how we Serbian radicals are going to submit amendments where we say it is deleted, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say that we Serbian radicals actually submit amendments that can be classified into three groups. One group is amendments when we express our principled position, when we think that some law cannot be found in legal traffic at all. We have no other way when it comes to such laws, but to suggest that each member should be deleted individually and the adoption of such amendments would not be the same law. We must not do it differently, to propose a law on putting aside the power of this law when it is eventually adopted, because then we know for sure that this will never come to the Assembly's agenda, as no proposal by the SRS parliamentary group has come in this assembly, and there have been many proposals and there are still many proposals. So, the other group of our amendments are those when we submit amendments to certain members of the law with some concrete solutions, and that is when we have the Government's proposal for a law that is not so bad that amendments can't be arranged, but, of course, such amendments are never adopted by the Government's representatives. We have another group of amendments, when we are trying to present to them a whole new concept, or SRS concept, of some law, which was yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Act, so again because in this House we are not allowing the debate on the proposals of the largest parliamentary group, and then we are using the Rules of Procedure that you adopted and we are reacting to the Government's proposals. Why do we think that this law should not be legalised and why we propose that all these amendments be deleted, or members of this bill. You know, it is very indicative that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is yet on 4 May, and then this bill was adopted, this year we knew what the outcome of the referendum in Montenegro would be, and this is something that we from the SRS, for which we are asking for an explanation from the competent minister as a representative of the government, we asked for this in principle debate and we did not get an answer at that time, but we have a very interesting written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as to why this amendment is rejected and the text for all other amendments is identical, because the amendments are identical, so that it is not an objection to the government's opinion but what the government wrote, and it wrote, "Amandman is not accepted for the reasons why the multilateral international treaty, whose ratification is proposed, signed by representatives of the relevant ministries of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro's Republic of Montenegro, and on the basis of agreement received by the Council of Serbia and Montenegro." So, they were given consent then, among other things, from Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic, because they knew at the time that they would be sitting today at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as citizens who were not elected ministers in this parliament, they could not be elected, because there was no solution to the previous issue, and these are amendments to the Law on Government, and of course we are not discussing such things here, but we are discussing some completely side-by-side matters. The government says further - this approach was adopted for reasons that Serbia-Montenegro did not have power in the field of energy, but that energy is within the competence of the Member States that have special laws, says that Serbia-Montenegro did not have jurisdiction (meaning the community, but only Serbia-Montenegro, which is up to formalities), is energy within the competence of the Member States, which have specific laws on energy and according to these laws, they are independently establishing their energy entities. What are energy entities? I really don't understand this. The brackets say independent regulatory agencies, transmission system operators, distribution system operators, and according to this, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro are designated as contracting parties in the contract and have their representatives in the community bodies provided for in the contract. A number of political, economic and legal reasons for the ratification of this treaty and its meaning for the Republic of Serbia are contained in the reasoning of the bill. They were also contained in what Minister Naumov here said in his brief address, when he spoke of this law and boasted greatly about this law before the bill came into the assembly procedure. I remember somewhere on a television show saying that he's a happy man, about like this, paraphrasing, that he's a happy man because his very ministry is closing his first binding contract with the EU, and that's now our first step towards the EU. And then, in this same phenomenon in the media, the minister says: we will now have conditions to identify electricity prices with prices in EU countries. It's really amazing and it's terrible. So, to be happy that we are in this community, because now we are going to charge our citizens electricity at the prices of EU countries, and of course our citizens will still be fired from work, they will continue to receive less pensions, they will continue to work, so very often they will not receive salaries or receive some minimum earnings, the government will still not take care of the ransom price of wheat and other agricultural products, so citizens who are being forced to sell their products below the price or to destroy orchards, as a farmer did these days, an orchard worth 10,000 euros – set on fire because it will not allow the state to make a fool of it. So, these things happen in Serbia, and Minister Naumov and Government Kostunica-Dulic are happy that we have entered some of these agreements at the level of Europe. So that is also in the explanation, the minister also said that this contract is one of the conditions for future agreements with the EU. What kind of conditions that will be, I'm afraid, and let me think, let alone say it. Whether one of these conditions will be what Dinkic said the other day, that citizens should no longer have the illusion that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, that we should make peace with fate that this is no longer the case. Will that also be one of the conditions that awaits us towards the EU? We already know this famous condition concerning The Hague tribunal, for the arrest and detention of Ratko Mladic in The Hague. Of course, it did not occur to any of the officials in Serbia that after this shameful act that took place in The Hague, when the verdict was handed down to Naser Oric, who received me, to remind the public of the so-called massacre and the crimes proven against Serbs, the two-year sentence, and the detention in The Hague tribunal was three years. So now he has the conditions to charge a substantial sum of the EU and the UN, because he was in custody for a year more, and they do not compensate for the damage. Of course, when it comes to Naser Oric, Krasic, there will be damage. Of course, it does not occur to them to compensate for the damage to Vojislav Seselj, who has been incarcerated for almost four years without any basis in The Hague tribunal, which violates all possible rights and of course does not interest anyone in the state of Serbia. To return to this, concerning the verdict of Naser Oric, Kostunica also appeared, some ministers also showed up, Boris Tadic – a thief showed up and everyone said it was really terrible that Naser Oric had received such a small punishment. And that Zoran Stankovic, the citizen who is now present at the cabinet's session, says he will protest, because he has submitted so much evidence that he has not been adopted, against Naser Oric, and my question is how they adopted it, all of the evidence against the Serbs, that he was so keenly working on them that he also believed the UN tribunal, and how he dealt with charlatanically and against Oric that no one in The Hague tribunal had ever thought to take it seriously. Of course, such as Minister Stankovic, so is The Hague's attitude towards Serbia. Then they say -- it is a terrible thing that happened to Naser Oric's verdict, but we still have to continue to co-operate, to arrest Ratko Mladic and then the biggest problem that Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic have at this point, they say -- who can now explain to the citizens of Serbia that The Hague tribunal is not a political creation, that The Hague tribunal is not an anti-Serbian court, and I ask them -- from where morals and to whom Serbian citizens come to believe that it is not so, when it is absolutely clear to all today, in fact, most of them were already clear, and even Kostunica and Tadic today it is clear that it is an anti-Serbian creation. Therefore, this law should not be adopted, not all EU conditions should be accepted, i.e. the government of Serbia and the government in Serbia should know that Serbia is the strategic interest of the EU and that we have nothing against becoming a member of the EU, but not by accepting all their conditions, but only by one of our only conditions, and the condition for us Serbian radicals is that the EU guarantees us Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. With that condition, it will also have our co-operation to join the EU. Without these conditions, Serbia will never be an EU member.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29009	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29010	Since we have progressed in the development of parliamentaryism and democracy at all in Serbia, we have now come to a situation that the government cannot even abuse the speaker and see how the discussion is going. This ignoring always comes back with interest. I have proposed to the amendment to Article 2. The bill is deleted, and it is a member announcing that the English and Serbian versions of the treaty on the establishment of an energy community between the European Community and all these countries follow. The contract is based on the authority, based on the conclusion of the Serbian government since 13 October 2005. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, it was signed by Minister Naumov on 25 October 2005 in Athens, and then the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro became an independent international-legal recognition of entities, i.e. that is how they presented themselves. I have to say, I'm not surprised because in the American plans, they avoided saying the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992, but they wrote Serbia-Montenegro. How did this internationally-legally recognised subjectivity happen, since this is still an international contract? By saying that energy is not in the jurisdiction of the state community but the republic and whoever was obliged to try to at least pretend that at the level of the state community there is an international and legal subjectivity, it is that Sveto Marovic and his council, greater, who knows what it is more. They gave one authority, that is, to agree that the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia are pushing independently in this process, and it is not an interconnection but something much more serious. This is one problem that can be treated primarily from market positions. Now that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know who determines the price of electricity, who determines the capacity, who cheers and dresses. The Serbian version of this contract, I read only chapters, the Geographical Area, and then something about energy, something about environmental protection, and competition, renewable energy sources, about compliance with the general applicable standards of the European Community, adaptation and development, the geographical coverage of the network energy market functioning mechanism, the long-distance network energy transmission mechanism. In order to facilitate the monitoring of this section, wherever I read these chapters would not be bad, for practical application, to go with: Hamović, Lazarevic and so on. Then, the security of supplying citizens with energy. Hamovic wanted to create here a stock exchange of energy in a building called the "red hat" in New Belgrade. Furthermore, the supply of energy to citizens. To see how the united electrical and energy base of Europe treats citizens. That's what Mr. Naumov will very professionally explain to you while he's singing in some choir. So then we have: harmonisation, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, and then we have the creation of a single energy market, a geographical coverage, an internal energy market. The international agreement regulates the internal energy market, then foreign energy trade policy, mutual assistance in the event of disturbances, we could accept this, in all this it is the only part that is needed; so the institutions of the energy community. We now have: the Council of Ministers, and then the Standing Group at a high level, and it will again be the High Representative; the Regulatory Committee, the Forums, Secretariat, the budget, the decision-making process – general provisions, the measures based on Title II, measures based on Title III, and Title IV, procedural acts, implementation of decisions and dispute resolution. That's what those for Europe, where Ksenija went, will be able to explain it professionally. Then, interpretation, participants and observers. I hope William Walker doesn't come back. Otherwise, whenever he was an observer there was blood to his knees, that voice beats him from South America 25 years ago. The period of validity, alterations and accession, final and transitional provisions and ultimately, annexes. Gentlemen of the majority, you will raise your hands or press the green button by making sure that there will always be more than 50% of the number present, and it will likely be 127 at the time of the vote to adopt this and that is the European way. This is the European path of an independent Serbia before the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is torn apart. Energy, and especially electricity, is becoming a very important product, has always been significant, but it is becoming extremely important the moment when, 20 years ago, someone smart came to the conclusion that, by denying the use of nuclear energy for the peaceful purposes of certain countries, they create a monopoly of electricity among the rich. If the price of electricity rises and exports to some areas then, in exchange, the developed ones get raw materials, they get for bad, and they sell their product very expensively. That the situation is serious is the best example of the state of California. Little by little, their energy system is falling apart, what the state used to make, what the privates made. Serbia is currently very interesting for foreign investors who are looking for a connection on how to reach the Energy Ministry to offer their private energy programmes. They're looking for locations, streams, some hammers where the windmills would be placed, etc. There are also some who are willing to extract coal from the Danube and on the spot through some capacity from that coal produce some derivatives because moving prices on the oil market now makes this production profitable. In order for this to end, it needs to be entered into one system. It is not a system of interconnection, interconnection, technical and technological, so that electricity can run through the power lines of all countries, to report to the market where there is a shortage, and to start from a part of the territory where it is produced in larger quantities than can be spent in that country. There are different combinations. The current from the Republika Srpska current towards Romania is where combined aluminium-processing combinations are located, and then three, four times more than three, four times they earn, so there is a great interest, the bar is reduced, the crocodiles have grown, but they have grown and when they grow they demand much more to eat, they cannot satisfy with one bull but need a pack at the same time. I must warn the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this government has made them happy with the fact that by joining this treaty, we are taking the obligation to be approximately the same price of electricity as in those territories and in countries that are known to be rich and where there is the possibility of paying these great costs of electricity. Mr. Zankov, I would like to ask you to warn Mr. Markovic, since I am now going to ask a parliamentary question, of course, it is entirely in line with the topic on the agenda. Just to make one mistake right. In The Hague tribunal's Statute, there is no possibility of compensation for damage to a person who has been illegally arrested and spent some time in custody. Even the Security Council didn't want to build on the UN tribunal's Statute, and Theodore Meron tried to do it twice, so for the past year, the more Naser Oric lay, don't worry, no one will pay him the damages. He's been paid off a long time. He honored the UN tribunal and washed his fate. My question is, I would ask the citizens who follow this transmission to share this with their neighbors, friends, and those who have relatives in the villages, especially in those remote villages of 30-40 kilometers, we have so dissociated municipalities, I think the King has such a great dispersion. In those villages of ours, so-called. the rural environment, as these "Europeans" would say, are rural households. I won't mind taking an example from my family. My uncle is one of the youngest people in the village around Prokuplja, 30 kilometers away, and he's 72 years old. Sam, no kids, his wife died. He recently earned his family pension, 4.5 thousand dinars getting a pension. He spent 52 kilowatts last month. You take him there, expensive and cheap, and he's only got one hour. The question is, is that bill correct, but I'm not talking about the reckoning? When you calculate that price, it's 150 dinars. He has a fixed cost of 163 dinars. Then there were these Djelic taxes, 50 and some dinars, and he should pay 372 dinars. But there's not a whole match. He also wins for TV 300 dinars, and TV can't watch, because what he has used to be TV, 20 years ago my father gave him that TV, so that TV doesn't work at all, and even if he did, he'd have to have a stabilizer, because there was so much tension that it was impossible to watch. Just to remind you, there is no living soul within five kilometers of the circle around his house. That's the fate of the whole end of Radan Mountain. Once there were thousands of people, there was one, once where there were 500 people, now there's none. Whether the government of Vojislav Kostunica is considering that citizens living in these territories, and that territory is very important, because those who some accuse us of spreading hate speech when we called them "Sceptar terrorists", however, have now improved and they are using that term. If only the hills come 10 kilometers down, they have territory on their own. These people, not guilty or indemnity, are still alive, guarding that territory with their own presence, can't handle anything. It probably takes 15 days for someone to go astray and go past them to tell them – good day. Do you think you can free them from the obligation to pay for electricity and all the cost of transferring them to those who live here and who make a lot of money by stealing from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Do you have any state policy in the field of energy, not to mention roads? They used to have one relationship a week, now they don't have one. Did you put everything on the market, and the human soul, the human feelings, the heart and the interests of this people, or do you think you're running a state policy, and say, "Come on, we're going to invest there." You don't have to invest in Kopalnik, he's going to rebuild himself thanks to those who have a lot of money, so he likes to take pictures every year for 15 days on the Kopalnik, as they were there, and the state's money to invest in undeveloped areas, to help build a farm, to make a factory, to get something going, to get people back to the village, because it's only normal for those who live in the village. Or are you still going to tell us stories about the EU, about Oli Ren, Oli Solana, Oli del Ponte, or this, or that? If you don't understand, I would ask you to visit these abandoned villages in the territory of the municipality of Prokuplje. It's a similar situation with other villages. You can also go to Surdulica, Lake Vlassin, Black Trav or Milkovic's Store, so with these bill of law to convince those peasants how right it is, well. If you get genuine support from them, it's an honor. Turn around once to run a policy on a citizen, on his needs, on his interests, not on experts without a job, not on those who can't wait to leave this country. Let me remind you, many more of them fled this country when you came to power, and you fought for Schengen, so that as many of them went away. I don't argue with you, it's your policy, I'm just warning you, there are people living in this country who want to live in this country, they want to die in this country, but they want to live like normal people, and they want to know that this country takes care of them. My question – let someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia find me a formula for my uncle to pay for the electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29011	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The Parliament's service has recorded your question and will be forwarded through the President's Office to the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent ministry. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have given a reason to all four points we ask to be deleted from the proposed text of the law, where we were surprised and wondered who it was in the government of the Republic of Serbia on May 4th knew that there would be a secessionist process in the Republic of Montenegro and that Milo Djukanovic, with the help of his Western mentors, would primarily the scepter organized around Mehmet Badi, with fake ID cards and a vote on how to ensure Montenegro's alleged independence. But if we go back a little bit and look at how politics was going, so-called. European integration, since the adoption of the Belgrade Agreement, and later the Constitutional Charter of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then we can see continuity in the manner of Vojislav Kostunica's rule, with that and Minister Naumova, who was president of the UO EPS and MP of the DSS at the time of the Dossov government and oligarch of the DSS. You had already known, and we, as an unknown, wondered in the explanation of this amendment, that the survival of the Serbian-Montenegro state union is difficult because the current government in Serbia has done nothing since that period, then what Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS, warned you from this assembly speaker, that any further alleged progress will, in fact, be a growing failure of one and the other member of the then community, that it leads to ruin because, from an economic and economic point of view, the principle of business on the double-college system, on the basis of which this agreement was written so that Montenegro has its own path, and Serbia, which you knew from before, and you did not take any action to prevent it, but agreed to do so. So also in the field of energy, that is, electricity, state supply with gas, electricity, and when you look, where we are today as a country, and what these countries of South East Europe are dealing with, but the great countries in the world like the Russian Federation, China and all those galloping towards greater economic development and expansion because everything they can do for everyone else in the world that they work with, then the unquestionable fact is that energy is a question of the future and that all agreements and all, God forbid, conflicts in the future are about energy and water as the necessary resource for the development of humanity, but energy above all. Then when you agreed to this and Minister Naumov went to conclude such a declaration contract, which is now a proposed law, it was then for you from the ministry and Vojislav Kostunica to inform them that you were coming as representatives and he as a minister from a deeply criminalised country, from a country in which more than a year ago in this building of the National Assembly, a group of MPs headed by Mr. Aleksandr Vukic discussed the electricity mafia, about Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, the godmothers, the two and how the close friends of Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, and during the time they committed, and also today they are doing it uninterruptedly here and in Republika Srpska, the robbery of the state and the people in terms of enormous earnings, they stole hundreds of millions of euros through the sale of our electricity. Then you should have told all your signatories of the agreement and told them in Athens that they would know who they were dealing with and that this case was not resolved but that a report on the work of the Committee of Auditors had not arrived to this day. I have to remind you, I suppose you too, who are in the field of energy, and you have been employed by the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia in front of you by a whole range of characters who have appeared and replaced each other, but the irrefutable facts are that Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic are the electricity mob that is now intensely in Republika Srpska. Hamovic is a key piece of news and a key figure in the news shows of Republika Srpska TV because he is a close associate there with Milorad Dodik, the prime minister of Republika Srpska, as he is close to all actors from the top of the government. And then all this stuff that's written here is optional, or one signature, is, but the citizens of Serbia, in the right sense, can't have anything. You should have told them at the beginning, as did Minister Naumov, that you were unable to meet the conditions of this proposed contract. Here's how, I'll read you just some of the segments of the reasoning you've given us, on page 70, that's the second and fourth paragraphs, and then the sixth and the beginning of the seventh, you're bound by all the points, and there are 87 contracts published here on the Serbian-English version, that you will do everything, and especially by the Ministry of Finance, Labour, Employment and Social Policy, together with the Ministry of Mining, all of what the signatories of this agreement require of you, and that because of the medium-term need to bring energy prices, especially electrically, to the economic level of the need for internal rationalisation of energy subjects and to improve their financial transformations, and to raise their competitiveness in the regional, and then to the wider European market, provide close co-operation with these ministries. These ministries, primarily the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Social Policy, should go public with the fact that Serbia's citizens, in particular, are in Kragujevac, the average of more than 20,000 dinars per household for electricity, which has since the arrival of those who bear some changes, in fact the destruction of Serbia, from October 5th to this day collected 12 times and the most expensive cost of kilowatts of electricity, we have of all these states signatories. I would like Minister Naumov to explain something to us, and that is now my parliamentary question. How in April, through the increase in electricity prices, has there been a change in the tariff system and how in the first zone, the one where the least electricity consumption is reportedly taken away, the right to be up to 600 kilowatt hours, and now it's up to 300? Why is the state of Serbia so in charge of giving counterguarantees, it is also my parliamentary question, in the past few years for the refurbishing of power plants in Serbia, when today, with the electricity bill charged to the EPS, I can't know exactly but it's about 100 dinars. So it's incorporated with this bill so increased by electrical energy. And now you're saying, the ratification of the Energy Community Treaty, and then its effective implementation of it, is of great importance not only to the success of the reform of our energy sector, but also to its functioning is in line with the principles of the EU. So is it the EU's principle to rob and steal electricity from Serbian citizens? Where are Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic? I'm telling you, every day it's as if the prime minister of Republika Srpska is making statements on all televisions, especially on the national television of Republika Srpska. If they hadn't filed criminal charges against them based on reports by Mr. Vukic and the Survey Committee, then what are you talking about? What justice, what rights, what social policy, when people, here's the example you just heard, and don't spend or spend almost nothing, and the bill comes to them for that electricity. Now, the biggest cynicism in this situation, when Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not have the opportunity to have regular supply of electricity, our MP Dragutin Peric is from Gracanica, Serbs from Gracanica may have had electricity this winter for a total of ten days. Ask Serbs and northern Kosovo Mitrovica how many times and how many hours of electricity they have a day. They can't turn off those on the hill because they know what's gonna happen to them, I mean these occupiers, and ask the other Mitrovica citizens. It's six o'clock, so six is gone, so it's like they're playing bingo, so they're supposed to guess. You say to reduce poverty and be a regular supply of electricity. Whether Serbia will be fully provided in the future for gas supply, primarily with Russian gas, will depend on the victory of the SRS, make sure of that. With the victory of Serbian radicals and the arrival of Mr Tomislav Nikolic as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, not only will more projects, such as the construction of a 609m-euro gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad, thanks to its merit, be made, but because of our traditionally good, I mean the entire Serbian people, but above all, our relations with the Russian Federation and their authorities, which we care for unlike you, but only when you want to and when you have to, will we do everything in this respect that the bar will never get cold for us. I will conclude, although I have little time left, that our MP, counterpart Mihajlovic, an SRS MP from the place where Serbs are most difficult to live in Kosovo and Metohija, Strpce, would tell that they are treated as a troubled people, when it comes to electricity flow and electricity supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29013	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. From what I understand, the word wants Mr. Mihajlovic, about the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29014	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out to you and to the general public of Serbia, in the care of the Serbian state when it comes to the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. The Cypriot interim institutions in Kosovo and Metohija are kidnapping in every way possible, and they are allowed everything that is Serbian and has the status of state or social property. The case I'm about to introduce you to now is about the abduction of the trafo station of Strpce and the chicaning of the EPS employees who opposed such kidnapping. Of course, I don't think this minister and his associates are responsible for it, but the government did, because this all happened in 2002. What exactly is this about? Lising-team as a branch of the CIA officially in charge of public contact with KEK's co-operation has collapsed on EPS workers, employed at the Strpce trafo station, with the intention of taking control of it. Of course, their mission would not have been successful if they had failed to find highly cooperative Serbs for their associates, as they call them, who helped them. I'm, of course, covered in papers that talk about it. This is the record made up at the Strpce police station. If you'll excuse me, I'll read it to you. He's talking about it right now. He says this: "The record made on 08.01.2002 at the police station in Strpc about the withdrawal of keys from the trafo station, the administrative building, the ship's "levels" and the existing inventory in the building of the administrative building, as well as the trafo station. We have taken the keys from the head of the EPS task force Strpce Gradočević Stanka, manager of the task force Mirković Stubiše and energy engineer Marković Bojana. When taking away the keys mentioned above, they picked up personal belongings, as well as the EPS business books. The books for reading the state of the electrical numbers remained in the register in the administrative building, as well as the old bills before the bombing that were packed and sealed. The premises are locked at 1300 hours in presence, this is an important thing, "the people's MP in the so-called Kosovo Assembly, Djordjevic Sokola. Notices, this is about a man who is vice-president of the DSS Municipal Committee for the Municipality of Strpce, who was once a National MP to the so-called so-called "Strpce". Kosovo's assembly and he served as deputy head of the delegation group of the Return coalition, Rade Trajkovic," all this goes under quotes. So, her deputy. Then there are the signatures of the people who are in front of the UNMIK police of Strpce, the names of police officers and finally -- the MP in the Kosovo Assembly, Djordjevic Soko. If you're interested, I can give it to you. They found a man who would be the new manager of the trafo station, his name is Zoran Stanojevic, he sold his skin for 310 euros, we have paper that talks about it, they found nine of them who also sold their skin for a little less, 240 euros, so that the kidnapping case would get legitimacy and legality. The new head of KEK's trafo station has arrived to invite all representatives of political parties to an official meeting attended by a representative of the CIA. This is the paper that's talking about it. Of course, there weren't any representatives of the SRS, just about the job. All of this could have prevented the state of Serbia from being more interested in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, to protect the interests of the remaining Serbs where it is possible to protect them, where Serbs still live, inhabit those areas. I can't say that the interests of the Serbian state in Prizren, Peća, Djakovica can be protected because there are no or almost no Serbs there, but where there are can be, with the help of those Serbs, Serbian patriots who want to work on it. One more sentence. What I see, as a Serb from those spaces, from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, is, it says -- a bill on ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of the region, and says -- the Republic of Serbia and the UN's Interim Mission in Kosovo. Please, if possible, the full name for Kosovo is Kosovo and Metohija, this is the name that the Shiptari are pushing with audiblely, pushing the occupiers. So the full name for the southern Serbian province is Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29015	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Any other MPs? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29016	Thank you. So, there's no notice for the MPs today, so I can go with the amendment defense right now, right, Mr. President? Thank you. First I'll read what we're discussing today. It is called – Proposal for a Law on ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. First, where Republika Srpska is here, she has a special electricity industry and I think that if we were to discuss it, and her name was to be found here, a team before those hiding behind this, I don't mean the minister, at least for him so far we don't have any special documentation, I don't mean this minister, but I mean the minister who was before this, so the former minister, Novakovic, who's a retaliated thief, a bunch of material Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, on the Survey Committee, showed all the tricks of Minister Novakovic. It also raises the basic question -- why separate Serbia from Montenegro, if it was a proposal for a law that is still in May, and where you place between Serbia and Montenegro in the title of Romania. Whether Romania was supposed to be a buffer zone between Serbia and Montenegro and in this. The second question is why Serbia and the United Nations mission if, according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and there was no legal justification to exempt part of the electricity system from Serbia's electricity system. Here, a National MP from Kosovo and Metohija showed what is happening to Serbia's Elektroprivreda in Kosovo and Metohija and whether it will be the United Nations mission to transport electricity from our coal produced in Kosovo and Metohija, in our power plants, across our territory, to sell it throughout Serbia. Who's got the money? When such international agreements are ratified, much is taken into account first. the principle of usefulness, the signing of a contract must produce a certain benefit for both, all three or how many foreign signatories there are. The basic question arises – who will benefit here? Will Serbia benefit and how much will this benefit be after the contract is signed? Of course it won't do any good. The benefits of some citizens of Serbia, selected individuals, those who spoke in 2000 -- if you choose us, then we come to power, we will all live better. Serbian citizens gave them power and they all live better. As Serbian citizens live, it doesn't matter at all, this is just a remark. The thermal power plants that Serbia has built, because they are huge funds, Mr Krasic said little about Serbia's need for investment in undeveloped areas. Return to a period when Serbia has allocated huge funds to underdeveloped areas both Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, every stone that was installed, every brick, every bagger that was bought, was bought with money from Serbia, every surface spear that was opened, opened with money from Serbia. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that transport, or this contract, will allow transport of energy, and above all is meant for electricity, power lines through Serbia, energy that will be produced, for example, in Kosovo, and transported through Serbia, because Lazarevic and Hamovic and other mafias from the yellow company have purchased capacity, so that the rest of the capacity will have the opportunity to supply electricity to Serbian citizens with electricity, it is irrelevant because they have purchased the capacity to transport electricity. Now they rob citizens of Republika Srpska by making something there, in fact, by kidnapping black under the nails of Serbs from Republika Srpska, and then we will come into the situation, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, as before the Survey Committee led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic when they introduced us into the system of quantities, so our electricity resources had to be shut down, even the Hidroelectrica Perućac dropped water to receive the amount imported by Hamovic and Lazarevic, and then when Serbia was the densest, when the electricity was running out, they then pulled that amount of energy from the system. Of course, with the fat commissions, it was done, of course, by the electricity mafia in Serbia. And today it will happen to us, and tomorrow after signing, after the ratification of this agreement, only we will provide the possibility that more sources can import electricity, when everyone around it has more countries to export electricity, when everyone around it doesn't have it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every state has a mafia, and here the mafia has a state, there's the point and there's the problem. Speaking of what is called the electricity industry to ask a parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why for three years, the citizens of the Serbian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija have two, three or four hours a day of electricity, what the Serbian government has done to help these people, because to understand how the uncle of MP Krasic keeps that territory there in Prokuplje, so Serbs, citizens of Serbian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija protect Kosovo and Metohija and while they are there, Kosovo and Metohija will be Serbian. We are putting them in a position to have electricity for three hours a day, not us, but thanks to this government's leniency and impunity, thanks to the fact that this government cannot look beyond the representatives of the European Community, that is the Europe in which you are going to introduce us. Of course you'll introduce us when they take away Kosovo and Metohija. On behalf of the SRS, I am now saying, unless you stop the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija into the European Community without Kosovo and Metohija, we do not need to enter, nor do we need such a European community. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another aspect of the mob, the power mafia, joining around and now looking for ways to do people's jobs. All the way to the end, reading this material, I thought after this, our mob would remain poor, so it would have to manage itself, and this is a way to team up, to open up state capacities to smuggle its electricity. As it is about energy, I repeat, I am asking a parliamentary question to Minister Jocic, when Minister Jocic will arrest, or his service, the ministry he is running, those involved in the Trizon affair, and today they are holding NIS, and when he will arrest Željko Popovic, Srdjan Mihajlovic, Smiljana Cvikic, though, then Lazarevic and Hamovic will have to find someone to temporarily do tasks at NIS, until she returns from custody if she is arrested. When he will arrest Srboljub Blagojevic, all those who are up to their necks in the "Trizon" affair. So, 27m euros is a yellow company, these Democrats across the street, kletocrates, thus kidnapped from Serbian citizens, and the question is how many times have 27m euros been taken without being caught. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the amendment to article 4 in the voting day be adopted and that this law is not ratified by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29017	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before we move to the next point, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29018	According to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, which relate to the right of the MP to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP and not to quote this Article 226 because the essence is the same. First, he did not answer Mr. President Aleksandar Vukic's question three days ago that it was Trizon, Tadic's financier, who disappeared from the District Court in Novi Sad with 27m euros, not a parliamentary question, but asked Mr. Vukic to receive that notice from parliament president and not to this day. So, how did Tadic get 27m euros robbed of NIS? I ask Mr. President today, i.e. first, to warn him that his former party colleagues obviously deceive him, because when yesterday and the day before yesterday, not only I, but also some MPs of the SRS, asked him where Minister Mladjan Dinkic was, when we discussed the bill where he was the government's authorised representative, Mr. Markovic, you said he had gone to Ireland. If that's true, then I ask what I'm going to say is another proof of how necessary it is for the ministers to sit here when they're discussing their proposals, that Velija Ilic was here today, when she was supposed to be, then I would ask him if it was true that Dinkic then went to Ireland, why didn't he allow him to fly to Ireland from the airport "Nikola Tesla", but poor Mladjan Dinkic had to go to Dubrovnik, that he was flying from Cilip to Ireland, because today we read in the newspaper – Dinkic's car burned at the hotel "Neptun" in Dubrovnik. So, Mr. Markovic, I know you didn't say that on purpose, but you are deceived by your former party colleagues, and then you have deceived the MPs and of course the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens think Mladjan Dinkic went to Ireland officially, and Mladjan Dinkic went to Dubrovnik, so whether Cilip will fly to Ireland, who knows where, a man full of money, Trizon went missing, went 27m euros from Serbia, stolen from citizens from the NIS. So, many questions, and I expect no answer, Mr. President, if you do not have an answer at this time to know that both me and my colleagues from the SRS who are also looking forward to the answer, please inform Dinkic in Ireland why he is not flying from the airport "Nikola Tesla", but from Cilip, why should he first rest while the National Assembly is working here and that he is resting in Dubrovnik, and that he is lying to the MPs and citizens of Serbia that he is in Ireland?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29019	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. As president of the National Assembly, I will always provide information exclusively, not what is written in the newspapers, or what is available to other public services or other levels. That is why, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will always forward the parliamentary question and ask for the answer to come. On the other hand, I learned that there was a question, I thought it was rhetorical to answer the president of parliament about the newspaper inscriptions that were being commented on, and there were apologies for the MPs who made the arguments, because the newspaper inscriptions differed over the fact that in the course of, I mean, the fraud trial, that was, for the deceitful actions, I'm only talking about the information that was available to me and that I also saw through the newspapers, one of the actors during the trial in Novi Sad, disappeared from the courtroom. Compared to that, when we have facts, they will be received from the authorities, they will be forwarded to the MPs. Also, I gave notice that the President of the Assembly, and that was at the Assembly meeting on a request that was known, for the stay of the Minister of Finance in Ireland, I said we would not wait for him, but the Assembly would do its job. In contrast, I don't know which way he said it, nor do I intend to do it. If there's a parliamentary question, of course we're going to check out some airport, where, where anyone was staying, but it's certainly clear that the finance minister was staying in Ireland and I got an official note about it, but I'm not able to interpret it here because it's an official note. (Zoran Krasic from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I meant something else. I saw you answering, I thought you were already ready to engage in the discussion. I didn't know it was in the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, please. I saw Mr. Momir come in. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29020	First you nodded at me that you saw, that you would give me, and then you turned around, of course. I'm using the same legal base as Mrs. Veronica Radeta. To deny you the inconveniences you might have because of the questions and the way it was treated up to a moment ago that the question was asked and that you would inform us about it. So, by saving you from some political problems, on behalf of the SRS, I ask the next question and I refer it to Minister Jocic and Minister Stojkovic. Please, in our practice, it is extremely rare that the defendant, the suspect, the defendant, escapes the court building during the trial. These are extraordinary cases. In that sense, I ask these two ministers to answer how it was possible, who arranged it, who bears responsibility, what are the consequences after that? Has anyone resigned, whether against allowing escape is being conducted against someone and all this in the context of severe mental suffering, which was exposed to the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic when he heard that the chief financier of the democratic cocussus was a suspect, and was established to express doubts that he had used his far-known personal security when he prevented the assassination of that Irish secretary from the US Embassy's car, and he may have misused his function as president of the Republic and allowed immunity to be transferred abroad, and as we saw in the newspaper today, he was pretty dimmed, and in this context, it was quite well-founded that the flock was located in Dubrovnik, that it was transferred to the vehicles of the Ministry of Finance and that someone accidentally burned the vehicle of the Ministry of Finance, and thus disrupted this government of good, warm relations with the government there. You must not violate that order in the Balkans. Due to a reasonable suspicion that some of the criminal activities that are happening, which cover allegedly state affairs, are not questioning your integrity, since you have repeatedly said here that you have ordered the Minister to go to Ireland, we are asking the competent state authorities for complete information, because we want to abuse this, given that it is a great capacity for the democratic bloc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29021	In accordance with Article 198, since I have allowed the parliamentary question, it will be in line with the position of the 2nd member on the basis of the stenogram clearly formulated, because this is a prerequisite and compared to tomorrow morning you will check whether this is such a formulated question that you wanted to ask. We are moving to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (REHABILITATION OF THE HYDROELECTRANE BIANA BASE) (single) You have received the amendment submitted by the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic on the proposal of the law. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you've heard, it's a matter of lending, and it's just, look at the wonders, Baji's Garden Hydropower Plants. All those who serve memory, that hydropower plant, in that famous affair about electricity imports, had to let go of all the fields, empty the battery, because two thieves wanted to make money. So, at that time, we were forced to import electricity intended for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which refused to receive that electricity, which was agreed and then came up with a solution for Mr Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic not to harm, or to suffer certain costs and losses, to turn it over to the EPS. We imported electricity that we didn't need at all, which at that time consumers couldn't, given their domestic capacities, to spend. It was too expensive to stop the thermal power plants because of it, and there was a solution to open the spilling fields at Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant. However, Gerdap was not allowed to touch at the time, because it is still an international hydropower plant, you might have to pay for the Romanian side's foam afterwards, and this solution occurred. You are now in charge of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the electricity industry to rehabilitate the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant. Even here there were MPs coming out for this pay phone, talking about how we should modernize our power systems, equip them better, give more electricity, be more reliable in work, etc. The question now arises when the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to rehabilitate the Bajina Basta hydropower plant is read, is that exactly what it is. It is now said in Article 1. - "The Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle the obligations of the JP "Electropriority of Serbia" under the responsibility of the German financial organisation KFW, up to 30m euros." Here's another similarity, this friend of Tadic's steals no less than 27, so maybe we didn't have to hire citizens of Serbia but Boris's friends to close and charge compensation from them. In your opinion, it is better for the citizens of Serbia to pay it than for friends of the thief's bloc gathered around Boris Tadic. Article 2 – The guarantee of Article 1 of this law gives the German financial organisation the name of the loan agreement between KFW and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, the rehabilitation of the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant, concluded in Belgrade on 9 September 2005. Article 3 states: "The repayment of loans is done by the JP "Electro-price of Serbia" at the expense of KFW, in euros. Loan funds will be provided by the Borrower, from their own incomes. The borrower is obliged to provide funds for the repayment of the loan according to the payment plan for each withdrawn tranche, in the amount involving the principal, commission on the undrawn part of the loan, guarantee costs and follow-up costs." So, one classic guarantee, counterguarantee, nothing special. The funds are defined for some kind of rehabilitation, however, the question is what is rehabilitation. If it was reconstruction, modernization, that's something else, we know what it's about. Rehabilitation, whether there have been any fractures or you will rehabilitate some personnel, say in Kljajevic's case, etc., to pay for some lawyer, some expert in the field of rehabilitation, etc. It is already Article 4 that departs from one classical guarantee and raises the question of what these funds are defined for, so it is said in Article 4. "The borrower is obliged to pay the annual amounts, in dinar equivalent, to the remaining amount of loans, in accordance with the Treaty of Article 2 of this Act, for the purpose of disbursement of favourable interest terms." We've read Article 2, nothing special. So the borrower is paying off the funds based on some contract to whoever he got the funds from. The following is said: "The borrower is obliged to make payments to the first member's position in the budget fund for financing primary environmental measures in the energy sector, which will be managed by the ministry responsible for mining and energy affairs." Now somebody explain to me who this money is given to, somebody explain to me whether it's really money intended for Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant, whether it's really intended for Serbia's electro-priority to rehabilitate or maybe to provide 30m euros for the Trizon, to detach in some way, etc. Further: "The funds of this member's 2nd budget fund will be used to finance primary environmental measures in the energy sector, including energy efficiency measures, which will be defined closer by an agreement concluded between the Guarantor," means the Republic of Serbia, "through the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Borrower". So we're being followed by some contract annex, some agreement. Then what did you conclude on September 9th 2005 and why you are asking for a job that is not completed for the Serbian Parliament to give you advance guarantees on the unseen. Furthermore, what are the primary ecological measures in the energy sector? Are you maybe going to fish an artificial lake? What are you gonna do with that money? I'd understand if it was a thermal power plant, or God forbid, a nuclear power plant, but I can't understand when it comes to a simple hydropower plant. There are some minor disturbances, climate, etc., but there are no harmful emissions, gases, particles. What kind of ecological measures are you planning to conduct at Baji's Garden Hydropower Plant? Furthermore, the question arises, why simply didn't the Energy Ministry fund conclude a contract with the German financial organisation itself and ask us to grant that guarantee. A particularly interesting explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is why it does not accept this amendment, and it is said: "Article 4. The bill envisions the obligation of the JP "Electroprivreda Srbija", as a loanee, to participate in a special fund in accordance with Article 11. The loan agreement." I think then, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you had to give that contract to the National Assembly. It seems that here is not the purpose of rehabilitation, as you say or modernization of the Bajina Basta hydropower system, but rather of spending money on who knows what environmental measures, probably some house, such as the Trizon, is doing certain assessments, environmental impact, projects, analysis, and to charge from citizens of Serbia 30m euros, no less, no more. Furthermore, here is the JP "Electroprivred Serbia", why it is designed in this way, it is only a simple financial structure to bypass the lender, which is that the EPS is creditworthy, this fund is not, so you are under some excuse that more favourable interest rates and conditions have transferred the money to a fund far from the eyes of the Serbian Parliament and of the MPs, including the JP "EPS". I now call on the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment submitted by Zlatan Jovanovic, especially for the reason that the funds needed to revitalise our energy collection system from Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic and the yellow company that these funds from these murky actions have been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29023	Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic. The remaining time by amendment is three minutes, and the remaining time to 14 hours is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29024	Mr. President, I'm not going to be celebrating around time, since I'm extremely precise, and what you may have learned from math in some new theory maker, that's your risk. It's about who's gone, not touching him. The more you touch it, the more it stinks. Yes, the citizens of Serbia know very well what this is about. Condoleezza Rice worked at an energy firm, Richard Holbrook also, Cimmerman, too. All those who have run the U.S. administration for the past 10 or 15 years originate originally in the field of energy. Dick Cheney, also in the field of energy, these Bushes, both in the field of energy. We're the only ones with Boki who aren't from energy, and he's picking up a power connection. Is the Trizon, is the plug, is it a laptop I don't know, grabs the energy connection. What's the problem with this bill? Mr. Markovic, the problem is that the explanation is not good. Let me remind you, and I know that you remember well everything in the National Assembly sessions, this was on the agenda of the session of the National Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. Serbia-Montenegro has provided a guarantee, and the Republic of Serbia is wanted for counter-guarantee, and then the German partner said -- I'm not sure about that state union, let's go back to the Republic of Serbia, so that it gives a guarantee. This was twice on the agenda of the National Assembly, and both times it was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29025	Now that you've asked for a notice, this is another such counterguarantee. She was not withdrawn, but in the meantime she was once withdrawn, once returned, so she was adopted, and this is the other. So you just didn't pay attention to the order, but you're basically right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29026	I'm always right, Mr. Markovic, because I never say anything without a clue, but I'm very informed. One thing was about "The Dark One," and the other one was about this. I was just checking your memory, did you remember everything that was on the agenda, since it was 250 laws, and that's not even a computer that can remember anymore. Gentlemen, the problem here is that you do not know whose 30 million are, whether they exist or are fictitious and who needs to secure a strategic position. Mr. Naumov, when something is allowed to work, whether he or someone, says – yes, he placed his resources through that financial organization, so they came here, so we rehabilitated. Now we have new expressions. Follow that: the condition of the roads, and it is said, "This road is reconstructed; this road is built, and this road is rehabilitated." This is where Bay's Garden is rehabilitated. I don't know, it's not Goldan here, probably everyone who works at the Bayina Garden Power Plant broke their legs, so now they're going to the physiotherapist to get their feet fixed, to rehabilitate something. Gentlemen, this is how money is laundered, it provides a strategic position, and those who designed it will never see the public. Let me get back to the beginning now, because I have two more seconds. The U.S. administration has run an energy lobby in the last 15 years. We have a problem that some of our people here would like to be lobbys, and they have no idea what energy is, so we don't have Boris, from this free zone across the street from the National Assembly, not even this "yellow" -- put an end to the robbery, but those in the shadows who are interested in energy rule. Then no wonder we have a Article 4 with a text like this no one could explain, and probably if Naumov was there, he would judge something in his usual way. Otherwise, it's very different what an MP he was than a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-06-0.u29027	Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move on to the 17th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Important Law on the founding of the News-Employment Constitution "BRATITY" (specificities) After the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, in accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, July 14, 2006, at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on all the agendas of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I hope in the meantime, after long duties, you find a way to take a breath after working this hard. Thank you all for your responsible work. Good-bye and good-bye. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 100 MPs attend the session, but in order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 97 MPs are present in the hall, meaning that at least one third of the MPs are present, and that we can start working day. We would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Zivojin Stefanovic. We've received a proposal to put the agenda under review by the Administrative Committee on Immunity. So I ask the Administrative Board to continue at 10:15 p.m. and that the Legislative at 10.45 p.m. in the small hall also hold a session. We'll approach the vote, be tolerated, so people don't sit down at 11:30. Thank you very much. So, immediately the follow-up of the Administrative Board at 10:15 p.m., where there's one point concerning immunity, so we're going to have to vote on its inclusion today. Thank you.
