ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. According to official records, the session is attended by 217 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their voting cards. The application of the electronic system found that 230 MPs, more than one third, were present in the hall, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have no notice of the prevention of MPs. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, and the sittings are also attended by the Prime Minister, and I think all ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, I called for Saturday, 30 September 2006, at 20.00 hours, so, past the date and time set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt as soon as possible, on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 12 September this year, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to decide on the opening of the Republic of Serbia's referendum to confirm the new constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, I found the following D's d'e n'e d'e: 1. The proposal for a constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 231 MPs. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a Decision on the Describing of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the 231 MP, with a proposal for a decision to call a Republic of Serbia to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You've received a report from the Constitutional Affairs Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to subsequent groups by a proportion of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The first asked for the word of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. Here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29542	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Madam Minister, we have before us a proposal for a new constitution which, among other things, is not only the highest legal act, not only is the foundation of our country's legal system and a great opportunity to make a strong step towards Serbia, which was legally framed by the Constitution of the 1990s and to make a new political and valuable orientation of Serbia, but this constitution deals in a special way and treats women's rights. This is one important fact, a new promotion, so I hope that in public speech, both our politicians and all the other followers will insist on this fact and take care of the way we speak, the political speech, respecting new values. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries that have a good constitution and a bad policy, but there is no country that has a bad constitution, and it has a good policy. Because the constitution, if bad, limits politics. The quality of life in that country depends on what politics is. It depends on the lives and standards of the citizens of the country's policies. We are today making a strong step towards Serbia in the 1990s. At the very beginning, I will say that this highest legal act, which in the form of the proposal today is in front of you, is not the best that is possible and is not ideal, but it is certainly better than the previous one. It is not great news if we confirm together that the constitution is always the result of a compromise, a political compromise. In every country, including in Serbia, the constitution is written not only by experts, but eventually by representatives of citizens in parliament, according to citizens' interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia expected six years ago that we would bring in one of these highest legal acts. It is good that, after more than 50 years, there is for the first time a broad consensus of all political actors on this important state issue, those political factors that are in parliament. It is a new political fact in Serbia's recent history. It is good that this constitution is prepared in a serious debate, but it is not good that we do not have a public debate based on this text. It would be better if we had just one time, in which it would be possible for all political factors, both NGOs and experts to include individuals in the debate on the final text. However, the constitution always, and also in Serbia, brings in one political time that involves certain restrictions. In this case, it is very important to adopt the constitution as soon as possible so that in new circumstances, in which Serbia exists as an independent state, a UN member state, we can form all institutions, so that we can act towards the international community at the full capacity of the state. It is known that today we have some problems on our internal agenda right in communication with the international community. What I would particularly like to point out is that this constitution collects the values of all the political factors involved in its creation. For my part, I insisted that this constitution be given a European character. In this sense, I will read the first member of the constitution, which not only defines Serbia as a republic of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, but also on the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, and membership of European principles and values. It is very important, in a political sense, that we have declared ourselves a society that wants to belong to European principles and values. It is also important because of the future of this country and its political orientation, it is also important that we provide our citizens with a better life and that we fight poverty in new circumstances, political circumstances, because it is actually the first, biggest task after the adoption of the constitution and the elections that await us after the adoption of the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many members in this constitution who define the developmental character of our society and our country. It is very important that in this constitution there is still a secure autonomy of scientific work, which in this constitution we have one selection of property concepts and we no longer have social property, which was one of the brakes of the development of the economy in this country. It is important that we also have the possibility in this constitution that those who invest and buy land in this country, and thus promote investment and job creation. But I must say that it is important, and how important, that we define Serbia in a valuable sense as a country that protects the rights of individuals living in it. But it also protects the rights of collectiveity, nations and national minorities. Only in this way is Serbia a harmonised country, fundamentally set up, well in the constitutional and legal sense, set up and directed towards European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, this constitution protects the rights of the child. This constitution protects the rights of every member of the national minority. This constitution allows every citizen to develop the right to his diversity, to use his own language and his identity. This constitution does not allow any physical and violent assimilation, either of the entire ethnic communities, or people of certain nationalities living on certain parts of Serbia's territory. This constitution, ladies and gentlemen, prevents the violence we had in the 1990s, which was shown in the formation of paramilitary formations and militant groups. This constitution expressly forbids something that was in the past Constitution. You may be surprised, as one of the worst features of that past constitution, which is the fact that the past Constitution, for example, was not forbidden slavery. The saying was not forbidden slavery. It is good that in a political sense everyone has the right to say their own word and it is good that Serbia is such a country that allows those who believe it should not be highlighted as a constitutional category, to say their word. However, ladies and gentlemen, this constitution gives Serbia a new regional dimension, as it provides the right to association and co-operate with its countrymen and beyond Serbia's borders. It's an important fact. I think that we, in a political sense, make such a legal act a significant step forward, an extremely important improvement. This constitution, which is ahead of us, provides both sustainable and even development of all parts of Serbia. It is absolutely unacceptable for only some parts of Serbia to be in great development and for some other parts of Serbia to suffer much lag behind. For me, it's all important facts of value. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, today we are standing before a day that is very important and concerns the adoption of this constitution, it is a referendum day. From this pay phone I would take the opportunity to invite all citizens of this country to vote in favour of this constitutional proposal in the referendum, because it is one moment that ensures that in a series that follows the adoption of new laws, the law on the implementation of the constitution and several other laws, sets of laws, we can finally appoint Serbia as a modern European state within a relatively short period of time. But in order for that to happen, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you must vote in favour of this proposal. I urge you to vote for this proposal, once again, to take a significant step, we are making a significant legal improvement. This constitution is incomparably better than the previous Constitution. It also shows the flexibility that provides, I'm convinced, that it will last. On the other hand, we doubtless confirm the will of citizens to live better in this country, to live better, and to live better and to do so as soon as possible. I thank you for the attention you gave during my presentation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29543	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29544	Dear Members of the People, it is indeed an extraordinary honor to address you in this, for our country, a great and extraordinary moment. For all countries, the adoption of the constitution is a historic act, especially for Serbia, at the time when two of the most important state and national interests naturally entered into one. Serbia's new constitution, firstly, is based as a legally regulated country and the truth is sealed that Kosovo and Metohija have always been and that forever remains an integral part of Serbia's territory. In the previous period, this tall home has passed a really large number of significant laws, which are in themselves important. [[Applause]] But only by adopting a new constitution do these laws make real sense, because they become the components of a largely decorated continent. In order for Serbia to develop, progress and be a functional state, for our citizens to live well, we worked together to create a solid and powerful foundation for our house called – the Constitution of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, defending Kosovo and Metohija as our fundamental national interest, have just made a unanimous decision on September 12th to make the new constitution immediately and thereby confirm that Kosovo is simply ours. Tonight, to the satisfaction of the entire nation, your decision is fulfilled. It's said done. Everything else, as appropriate, is left to the people's will. The voice of the people must be heard in the referendum. If God does, the state of Serbia will get a new constitution. Honorable representatives of the people, for great works, but the adoption of the constitution is a great work, should be when. [[Applause]] It is just that you have assumed the historical responsibility of adopting a new constitution by yourself, the MPs, and that you are the promoters of a new constitution. My government and I have so far done everything in our power to achieve this. All institutions and all parliamentary parties worked together to adopt the constitution. We must also work equally uniformly to make the referendum as successful as possible. In this way, the new constitution will, in the right sense, be what it must be, which can only be a joint act on Serbia's well-being and the well-being of all its citizens. As of this moment from the National Assembly, with one vote and one will, we invite all citizens to come to the referendum and vote for a new constitution. This confirms that Serbia is a modern democratic state and that Kosovo is not only an integral part of our territory, but also an inalienable part of each of us. As Kosovo has long defended Serbia, so Serbia will defend Kosovo with all democratic and legal means. I am convinced that the people's will on this matter will be both firm and one-hearted and announced in front of the eyes of the whole world. It is also invaluable that citizens in the referendum give strong democratic legitimacy to the new constitution, building all institutions in agreement with the country's new most important legal act. This is for Serbia, in the right sense of words, a new, big start, which must be strongly confirmed by the sovereign will of the people in the referendum. Dear MPs, let me also say how personal it is to me, as Prime Minister of Serbia and to a man who, like you all, has subordinated everything to the well-being of our country, important for Serbia to get a new constitution at this crucial moment. In short, it's a fundamental goal for which I fought within the limits of all my powers. I express my sincere gratitude to you this time for achieving this great common goal together. I want to tell you, too, that by adopting a new constitution, Serbia becomes the creator of its destiny. This is a constitution for Serbia, for its future, for its development and for its progress. This is a constitution for Serbia's rebirth. We've started the most important job of editing our house. I believe we will do it together, with full awareness of its importance, greatest responsibility and love. Because what could be more important and far-reaching than being in the opportunity that history itself has given us, to build, how best we know and know, our house, our Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29545	Thank you. I now give my word to the proposing representatives. First came Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are really writing Serbia's history today. One day, we will be proud to be at a session where we have indeed decided on the future of Serbia, the future of our children. And I'm really sorry we didn't have time for a public hearing. All that democratically in me makes me tell you that it would have been much better if for a few months, a year, we had time to explain constitutional solutions to the citizens of Serbia. It might also lead to a member's change. We will have a month of referendum campaign, where citizens will be able to see whether they should be for or against, but the solutions we propose tonight will not be able to change, and that is what I miss, but it is a grudge to those who have had their public debate for six years and have put us in a position to decide within a very short period of time on the highest legal act. But at the same time, I am absolutely convinced that we are not making this constitution because the previous one had no solution prohibiting slavery. I wish that was the only reason that would make us bring a new constitution. When radicals first offered Serbia their constitution, it was strongly opposed to the monarchy, because the first radical constitution in the preamble contained a decree that the Serbian people were giving themselves a constitution. I am proud that we today give the citizens of Serbia the Constitution of Serbia, the state of the Serbian people and all the citizens living in it. We are also perfectly pleased that the preamble of the constitution, although some legal expert from the West who has time to interpret the constitution and in another way will be distracted by the fact that one part of Serbia's territory is singled out in the preamble, in particular by swearing that we will protect it, that we will take care of it and that we will do everything for it to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause by the MPs of the SRS]] But it had to be. Kosovo and Metohija must both be in preamble and sworn by the highest state authorities when they place it before the National Assembly. In the constitution, we regulated it by the oath of the President of the Republic, and by the Law on the Ministry, I am convinced, the ministers will accept from the heart that their oath, which they pledge to defend Serbia's interests, includes a provision to defend Serbia in which Kosovo and Metohija are composed. We are also pleased that Serbia is the state of the Serbian people, but also that it is based on democratic traditions, on the equality of citizens and on European principles and values. It doesn't bother anyone and it's no one's special idea. I'm just warning you, when you commit to European principles and values, you'll have to respect them in the laws that we'll then pass. The basic European principle is parliamentary democracy. The basic European principle is that the assembly chooses the authorities of the executive government. With the exception of France, let someone deny me, I think we will be the only state to directly elect the President of the Republic. This is what the SRS agreed to, convinced that those who think that the constitution should not be passed unless we agree on how to elect the president, are convinced that we, Serbian radicals, are still in the next election of what kind of electoral principle will be. You know, victory is ours. We are pleased that the Constitution takes over from the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia a provision on the official use of Serbian and Cyrillic letters, along with the equal use of other letters and languages, which will be governed by the law, and therefore I ask you to return to Cyrillic that reputation, that place needed in the Serbian state and in the Serbian people. [[Applause by the MPs of the SRS]] We are pleased that forced labour has been expelled in criminal and correctional institutions, i.e. work under the Constitution is possible only with consent, only if it is based on the principle of volunteering, means with the consent of a person deprived of liberty or by a judicial verdict sentenced to a time sentence in prison. We're not happy, and I have to say it in front of all of you, it doesn't affect our attitude towards the Constitution, but I'd like to get out of this business with clean hands, because it's probably tonight, I wasn't paying attention to it, I was convinced that it wouldn't happen, thrown out of the church regulations and religious communities, counting churches. Our wish was for churches to be a constitutional category, not to ask whether the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Islamic religious community and other churches would ever be registered, and religious communities should be referred to the law under which they would be registered. Someone gave someone a break tonight, so you put them in the category of churches and religious communities in an undefined category, all churches and all religious communities. Wrong, don't let it happen again, don't let it happen when we break up that we have to wait all night to see if there's gonna be any changes, because you can't say it in our eyes. We are pleased to have decided that when it comes to the needs of members of national minorities, when it is necessary for their identity, when it is necessary for the development of their children, in order to preserve their speciality, we give more rights than Serbs, Serbian citizens. We were not agreed to call it positive discrimination, because there is no such term, but we agree, and it is good that we have clearly highlighted our orientation that minority members in the Serbian state will not only be protected, but that in many of our jobs they will have more rights than we Serbs. We are not pleased that the public property is destined to be in state property, in the property of the AP or the property of local self-government, but we will not be making any problems about it, because this property will be regulated by law. [[Applause by the MPs of the SRS]] We want to cause problems when laws are passed, not when Serbian citizens give themselves such a good constitution. We are not pleased that the President of the Republic, the truth in accordance with the law, commands the army. We'd like it to be the Supreme Defence Council, we'd like the decision to use the military to be divided into responsible authorities, but we'll see how that goes, and that's why we won't cause any problems. We wanted the president to choose the National Assembly, we would like to avoid the situation in which Serbia is today, that the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister do not lead the same policy, that their political options are strongly opposed, that even representatives of the political party of the President of the Republic attack the opposition party as it co-operates with the Prime Minister. We don't attack you for being in power, and you don't support government policy. Imagine a country where a party in power does not support government policy. It can only be done in Serbia. As a result, the Assembly must select the most authorities. You have a hundred wars in 100 units of local self-government. You made them yourself by the Law of Local Self-Government, the Constitution corrects it, and you consider whether it is necessary after the first conflict to change this provision on direct selection of the President of the Republic. We are pleased with the shape, appearance, text of an oath taken by the President of the Republic, where Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned, and I wish tonight the President of the Republic had mentioned Kosovo and Metohija. We have proposed that the Constitutional Court not interfere with the political will of the citizens of Serbia shown in the National Assembly and that the decision of two-thirds of the MPs, that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, does not question. [[Applause]] Because if the President of the Republic loses the trust of the National Assembly, it is not worth saving from the Constitutional Court, so before we are satisfied with the way judges of the Constitutional Court are proposed and elected. You will have three categories of judges of the Constitutional Court, chosen in different ways. The question arises is whether they are equal there, if they have gone through different stages of the election. And now what many people use against the SRS in public, we were absolutely absolutely clear against that the autonomous province has a constitution, that it has police and that it makes laws. But it's not for you in power to interpret it as your defense of the Vojvodina. The Duchess in all these conversations has not been attacked in any way for an hour. The autonomy that Vojvodina has today for no second in the talks has been compromised. You defended the Vojvodina from nothing, you just wanted Serbia to defend itself against the Vojvodina, which is impossible and unimaginable. We're one. The SRS recognises the speciality of the Vojvodina, otherwise we would have advocated the abolition of autonomous provinces. But not one step further. Vojvodina will mostly be part of Serbia while the SRS exists. This constitution will be easier to change, its change will require a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. For certain provisions of this constitution, which are really important for physionomy, for the shape of the state in which we are, it is necessary for citizens to declare themselves in the referendum, but for a change, it will be enough for most of us to go to the vote vote for change. We will participate in the referendum campaign, we will support from the heart the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're not saying that the old constitution was no good, we're just saying that time, unfortunately, has instructed that we have to change it. If we have to change it, let's change it all. That is why I call on all citizens of Serbia, all enrolled in the voter lists, both in Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, and those not on the territory of the province, to go to the referendum, because this is finally a referendum for Serbia and therefore, let it not sound pathetic, but - lived Serbia! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29547	Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, answered the words. Here you go, Mr. Albianic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29548	Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in front of a historic decision. Serbia is ahead of a new constitution, 103 years after the last constitution of an independent Serbia was adopted. After 16 years of entry into force of the 1990 Constitution and six full years of democratic change, our constitutional issue has been on the verge of being resolved. Although it has been open for years, the issue of the new constitution is certainly one of the most complex puzzles of our political reform. Although Serbia has been through the biggest changes since World War II in this decade, the basis of these changes was not the fruit of a clear agreement between all democratic parties and even fewer important political factors in the country. Three powerful influences have shaped our constitutionality over the past centuries. It is about the programme vision of statesmen, the democratic will of the people and the international position of Serbia. Back in the Middle Ages, Serbia had elements of the rule of law. Understandably, the will of a nation that would affect our old legislators could not have been spoken. However, by bringing to the 13th century the prominent Law, Nomokhanon, Serbian archbishop Sava Nemmanic, later St. Sava, was the bearer of the modernity of his time. When in the 14th century, the greatest Serbian ruler, Emperor Dusan, reproduced his "Lawman", his work was not only a triumph of modernity, but also of the rule of law. It is necessary to remember the famous members of the Law, such as Article 168: that all judges should judge according to the law, according to the law, and not judge by the fear of the king. This shows the degree of legal culture in Serbia at the time. In the 19th century, Serbia experienced a huge transformation from the peripheral Turkish province, becoming an internationally recognised state at the Berlin Congress in 1878, and a state that built modern institutions and passed more waves of modernisation. I note that important constitutional laws were passed on two occasions in 1808 and 1811. And it is day and day to praise the "Serb Freedom Letter", written by the Secretary of the Government of the South Soviets, learned Professor Bozidar Grujovic. Indeed, it was the Serbian version of the declaration of human and citizen rights. During its development, Serbia adopted six constitutions between 1835 and 1903. The first constitution was the famous Sretenjski Constitution, which was written in 1835 by Dimitrij Davidovic, and the Kragujevac Assembly confirmed. We can be proud that it was the first constitution in the Balkans. During the next decade in Serbia, the first true political movement in our history acted. His members were called 'constitutional defenders'. At the beginning of their rule, Serbia received a second constitution in 1838. This constitution has made Serbia more free and Serbian society more just. A big question is raised over the next decade – whether there can be freedom and justice, set before Serbian statesmen at the same time. The issue burdened Serbian politics in 1990. That misunderstanding is bothering us today. The fate paradox has made the Turkish constitution the longest, it has been in force for more than 30 years. At the time, however, small Serbia was the third country in the world to introduce the Civil Code, which ensured the protection of private property and the development of capitalism in Serbia. Also, before the law evens out members of all religions, half a century before something like that happened in the UK. A third Serbian, Deputy Constitution was introduced to the Spirits in 1869. Although Serbia for the first time made it a parliamentary state and established a certain balance between the judicial, executive and legislative authorities, the constitution was conservative and written in favour of the ruling authorities. When parties began to act in Serbia in 1881 -- the Radical, Advanced and Liberal Party, the Deputy Constitution proved insufficiently democratic for the needs of a dynamic society in development. During the 1980s, the Progressive Party contributed to a new wave of modernisation, under the slogan of the party – "Law, Freedom and Progress", which has brought Serbia closer to European role models. After this period, King Milan imposed the fourth Serbian constitution, which was with new liberal and advanced solutions. For example, he wrote about freedom of expression briefly, but effectively – "The press is free". During the ten-year independent rule, King Aleksandar Obrenovic himself brought a new fifth constitution since 1901. Finally, at the beginning of the 20th century, the sixth, the famous 1903 constitution was brought in. He was adopted after the change in the dynasty and the arrival of Petar Karadjordjevic to the throne. Its great reach is that it has established full parliamentaryism in Serbia. Today, when we adopt a new draft constitution -- the seventh Serbian constitution -- we have great reach for the freedoms that have been achieved in the 1888 and 1903 constitutions of the Kingdom of Serbia. The 1903 constitution lasted until the creation of the Yugoslav state. He was just one version of the 1888 constitution, but the secret of his longevity was contained in the democratic principles he prescribed and which led to periods that certain historians called the "golden age of democracy". Winning World War I, Serbia's political elites chose not to rebuild Serbia, but to create a large Yugoslav state. From the Vidovdan Constitution in 1921 to the Constitutional Charter in 2003, our country was going through various stages of development – in which time Serbia either did not exist as a special state or its sovereignty was limited at the time of the communist government. The coming to power of communists in Serbia and Yugoslavia in 1944 and 1945 introduced a totalitarian order, in which civil liberties and rights were abolished, and Serbia became one of the People's Republic, with an autonomous district and an autonomous province. Remember that then, in 46, the Constitution was passed, but the elections were organised in the atmosphere of fear and persecution of political opponents and boycotts of opposition parties. In such an atmosphere, the monarchy has been abolished. The way the monarchy was abolished in Serbia has left the monarchy open to this day. The attempts to act freely during communism ended with the arrest and persecution of political insinuators, as it was after 1971, when the arrested and persecuted professors and assistants of the Faculty of Law and Philosophy in Belgrade were arrested, which was then shown by the true face of the then non-democratic government. When she finally got the chance to turn to herself, which was the case in 1990, Serbia received the Constitution without radical changes and before holding a multi-party election, which would allow the highest legal act to be passed in a democratic way. In almost all other former Socialist states, the constitution brought opposition forces to power. Serbia is one of the few examples where the Constitution has brought the old regime. On October 5th, he restored the full range of democratic aspirations of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Bringing a new constitution late, but Serbia no longer has time to stand. The political consensus of the large parliamentary parties around the new constitution is today a reality and therefore we are standing before the adoption of the seventh Serbian constitution. The new constitution is modern and democratic. In Article 1 The draft constitution of the state of Serbia is defined as follows: The Republic of Serbia is a state of the Serbian people and of all citizens who live in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, membership of European principles and values. This member combines traditional and modern, past and European integration, civil and national Serbia into a coherent continent. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Freedoms has been incorporated into the basis of the Constitution's proposal. What is the significance of this topic is seen from the fact that this part of the constitution covers almost a third of its members. This approach to civil rights and freedoms draws Serbia closer to European values and is an important support in meeting the criteria for Euro-Atlantic integration. The third part of the constitution deals with economics and public finances. It is of particular importance that this part of the constitution allows institutional assumptions for the development of the market economy, entrepreneurship and competitiveness in Serbia, but also for consumer protection. The draft constitution provides a consistent division of power to legislative, executive and judicial and provides assumptions for the full independence of the judiciary. With regard to Serbia's territorial arrangement, the proposal for a constitution provides for original revenues that the autonomous province finance its responsibilities. It is of particular importance that the constitution guarantees that at least 7% of the republican budget will be available to finance the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Modern solutions on local self-government jurisdiction are foreseen, paving the way for essential and functional decentralisation. Serbia is ahead of resolving a very complex issue between Kosovo and Metohija. Only a fair and mutually acceptable solution can bring stability and lasting peace in the region. In this regard, the adoption of a new constitution should also contribute to achieving such a solution. As with the adoption of previous constitutions, and the adoption of a new constitution will open up a space for controversy, objections and proposals. The great extent of the new constitution is that the process of its change has been simplified. This opens up the possibility for its later grooming and coordination during the European integration process. The good side of the new constitution is that it was written for an independent state of Serbia and finally frames the building of the country's statehood. As a party that has the heritage of the 19th-century Serbian Progressive Party tradition, the G17 Plus party will support this important step forward, which has reached the consensus of all political parties. The seventh constitution is ahead of us, and the tasks that lie ahead of Serbia are: the continuation of the Euro-Atlantic integration process, the consolidation of democracy, the establishment of full rule of law, economic progress and the return of a good image of Serbia. Serbia has its coat of arms, flag and an anthem. Let us restore our pride to our country and our people. Let us vote in favour of the Constitution, with the people's will to confirm it in a referendum. That's how God helped us. Thank you. Thank you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29549	Thank you. A representative of the proposing Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29550	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable gentlemen of the Republic and Prime Minister, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who surely follow this TV broadcast, I think today it is clear and obvious that Serbia is facing problems related to its state unity, its sovereignty, its territorial integrity. This is the basic reason why the SPS supports the proposal for this constitution. We believe that the adoption of a new constitution is a logical move, i.e. a declaration by the people about whether Kosovo is an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this response by the people to any pressures from the international community is a good possible active move that could help defend Kosovo and Metohija. In this regard and above all, the SPS as a state-owned party supports the adoption of a new constitution. Of course, I would like to say this opportunity that stories about the new constitution should not be used for stories against the existing, or the old Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, has introduced a multi-party system into Serbia, introduced a market economy, human rights and freedoms and, as those who wrote this constitution know, many elements of this constitution have been incorporated into the new text of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. After all, the constitution, the referendum, the constitution, the elections, Serbia's special ties with Republika Srpska, does that sound familiar to you? Does that sound like something we used to do when we were in power? Not because we wanted to, but because we had to do it in the interest of Serbia, in the interest of the Serbian people. Of course, we think it is good for Serbia to get a new constitution and because Serbia is in a new state-law situation. It is today an independent state, no longer within the common state, with other Yugoslav peoples and republics. In this sense, it is good that Serbia has one active move on the international agenda. However, in the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are also listed as an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you all, when you talk about a new constitution and when you talk about the old Constitution, to overcome and overcome interparty differences. Let's not talk about the past constitution as bad, just because it was brought in at the time of the SPS government, the same thing that we'll never let this new constitution be spoken of badly just because it was brought in at the time of the power of one or another political party. So it is good that this is not the constitution of any of us individually, any political parties, this is the constitution behind which all the political parties that are in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia stand. We are not in agreement with all the solutions found in the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For example, we think it is too high to stand in the constitution of the Republic of Serbia and talk about state symbols, but it is enough to say that it is regulated by law, so let's ask the people about it. You know that the SPS was the only one who voted against the "God of Justice" anthem, because we find it inappropriate for you as Republicans to stand still and sing alongside the king's anthem. There is no king, but they don't know the text, so they sing the old text, which has changed in the meantime. As you know, the "God of Justice" anthem is written for the Obrenovics, but it doesn't matter. The SPS is against it. But, Madam Presidents, and one, and the other, and third, gentlemen of the Ministers and MPs, we will never allow ourselves to whistle our own anthem and tear our own flags because we do not agree with the motion of these national features, as some of your supporters have done these 10-15 years. No matter what we're against, it's an anthem of our people and our country and of course we'll always respect it. Since you mentioned the Republic and the monarchy, as many have returned to history here and talked about historical issues, allow me to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and something they have for the first time today in Serbia as an independent state. Today, a constitution is being adopted, for the first time in Serbia's independent state, in which Serbia is defined as a republic. That's why I congratulate all citizens of Serbia, Republicans who have fought the monarchy for centuries. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are not for Serbia to be ruled by someone by an inheritance, but by an electoral right. The President of the Republic is an electoral monarch. For this we have fought for centuries and thank God that Serbia has officially become a Republic today, regardless of what there are parties in this assembly that advocate the monarchy, and I think it will vote in favour of the proposed constitution. What solutions the new constitution relies on: province autonomy; province autonomy, yes, but not statehood; Serbia's unity; Serbia's state territory and Serbia's state unity are indivisible; human rights and freedoms. So, Mr. President of the Republic, when you talk about some new human rights and freedoms, I think you're exaggerating when you mention some things, because it turns out that until this constitution was passed by Serbia in slavery. This is not Kinshasa, this is Serbia, and you are the president of the Republic of Serbia. In it slavery almost never existed. Don't do it because you don't like the previous constitution or some who think otherwise, that you're talking about epochal discoveries, because the constitution says that slavery is forbidden. Or a real kid. What are you saying? There were no children's rights in Serbia so far? Mr. President, you are the president of all citizens of this country, no matter what they did not vote for you. You should represent the opinion, attitudes and interests of all citizens of this country. If you want Serbia to defend itself unitedly, and it can only defend itself if it is unique and strong, do not share Serbia. You want to share Serbia with those who allegedly advocate democracy or dictatorship, those who allegedly advocate the past or the future, those who allegedly advocate freedom and slavery. You're wrong. That's not in Serbia, Mr. President. All political parties in Serbia advocate European values, democracy, human rights, but also advocate national and state interests. You've confirmed that in this constitution as well. Of course, for many years you have criticised the speed of the constitution in 1992, so-called The Frog Constitution. Then, Madam Presidents, Ministers, MPs, Serbia stole the state from Carrington. That's when Serbia saved Serbia-Montenegro's unity, because it was supposed to be broken by the seams of the former Yugoslav republics. The constitution was written in secret by the international community, as you have now written it to warn and outsmart Americans and others who advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It's not the weakness of a constitution that brings speed, it's what it says in that constitution. I don't have any objections to the current constitution, or in a hurry, I'm just talking about when you're criticizing something, you have to be principled. I know that Theodore Roosevelt once said that the opposition, when it comes to power, is doing almost the same thing that she once resented the ruling parties. But it's politics. Today, I don't mind you bringing the constitution quickly and making it quick, because Serbia can quickly lose Kosovo and Metohija. More important than a public debate is whether the entire nation, the whole state, will say that Kosovo is an indivisible and integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, than any public debate. What should we have a public debate about, that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia? Is this constitution good or bad? Change it after that. No constitution is the Holy Scriptures. Besides, you've changed the way the constitution changes. Now the constitution changes a little bit easier than last time. So, the referendum is called only in certain cases, when something relating to the foundation of constitutional arrangement is changed, then it is necessary to go to the referendum, and otherwise it takes a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. What matters to us is that there is agreement between all political parties. There's no constitution overvote and overvote. You've been talking about the constitution for six years. We could've brought it back sooner if there'd been consensus and consensus. Today it is important that political consent exists in Serbia. It is not a consensus on the new constitution, it is an agreement on access to Kosovo and Metohija's problem. On one occasion we spoke with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and he told us then, we share his opinion, the vote for the constitution and the referendum for the constitution is the vote and referendum for Kosovo and Metohija. That's why those political parties and those individuals who are now jumping out of the political unity and consent of all, work, practically, for the benefit of our political opponents. In that sense, I also understand that some MPs are not signatories of this proposal to hold this session. Goran Svilanovic, Natasa Micic, and I also saw that Zarko Korac withdrew his signature, which, in my opinion, is proof that it is good that there is political consent, as soon as they are not signatories. No one can sign this constitution that advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence. If they had signed it, I'd be worried, I think I might have pulled the signature. This is a state based on social justice. That's what we wrote. It is a basic programme definition of the SPS and all other left parties in Serbia. The constitution guarantees social protection, free primary and secondary education, and free higher education for those who are weaker in property. The constitution guarantees that children, single parents, old ones, are entitled to health care from public expenditures. In any case, these are the principles that we've stood for, and that's why we're pleased that they're in the constitution. Also, the use of the army outside Serbia's territory is possible only on the basis of a decision by the National Assembly. Therefore, if you wanted to send an army somewhere, Mr. President, as commander-in-chief, you must first seek approval from the National Assembly. Not that you're sending our doctors or I don't know who else in the white world, Afghanistan, I don't know which countries they're all in, and they don't even know whose warrant they're going to and what they're doing there. This congregation is competent to decide. Also, I think Vladan Batic is disappointed, remains in the constitution of the death penalty ban. If he were in power you might change, maybe Serbia would be the only country in Europe to return the death penalty, but by this Serbia is different, and in our time the death penalty has been abolished. What no one here has said, in Article 102. The draft constitution, the MP, is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal was elected as a MP. This is a very important provision. This is the end of the theft and trade of mandates, the bribery of MPs, the kidnapping of mandates, which has been the case in recent years. Therefore, not to expand the topic further, Kosovo and Metohija are the main reason why the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the draft constitution. We will do everything to succeed, but Mr. Presidents, Ministers, you must understand that what you wrote about Kosovo being an inalienable part of Serbia's territory and that you wrote that all state authorities are obliged to protect Serbia's interests in Kosovo and Metohija is not an invasion of the whole world, as you said in our time, it is a desire to defend this country and defend this people. If you want to defend her, to defend our country and people, the Socialist Party of Serbia will be with you. That is why we support the proposal for a constitution and call on all citizens to vote in favour of this constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to vote in favour of Kosovo being an inalienable part not only in the history and present, but also in the future of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29551	The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Predrag Markovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my duty, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at the end of the discussion, after the highest state officials and representatives of the promoters, to remind ourselves once again of the fact that, when discussed, the longer we discuss, we are becoming more and more involved in politics and sometimes we forget why we are here today, and you saw that today was a wonderful day. We need to make sure that in the days that are hard to find ways for each individual and the entire state to end up being a wonderful day again. The part we have to do now is we, part of the biggest, must make the most important citizens of Serbia in the referendum. But we can't forget what we did and what we decided before. That is why it is my obligation to remind you that the proposal, which we are now talking about, is a proposal requested by the three decisions of the National Assembly, and it is my obligation to speak of the decisions of this call. In the current assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, work on the new constitution was launched by the National Assembly decision on the conduct of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia on 30 March 2004. Should I remind you how many days it was after the Kosovo pogrom between 17 March and 19 March 2004? Should I remind you then of the state of the institutions in Serbia and should I remind you of the willingness to argue in the coming years over the different elections that will follow? Do I need to remind you that you have been determined and that it has been easy for me by law to schedule elections and that, according to that, citizens, by changing the political will, because it is democracy, these elections are coming out. And in the meantime, we have made laws and decisions here and we have acted on them, because decisions by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they are made, must be respected, and above all must be respected by those who vote for them, and sometimes people don't care about it, but this is an opportunity to remember. On 8 April 2004, on the basis of this decision by the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs first took note of a comparative analysis of constitutional solutions, with a collection of complete texts of the draft constitution which were discussed in the National Assembly during the previous period or represented in previous years in public and professional discussions, by political parties, NGOs and professional organisations. Based on this and the experience that it is not possible to agree, the Subcommittee was formed, with the task of preparing the text of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to remind you of all the details you know from different parts. I will remind you only that the Subcommittee held 18 sessions, at which the text of the New Constitution was established, and in the last phase, since June 2006, it was additionally hired by two doctors, since the constitution, the doctor of law and one return. When the agreement of Mr Lončar and Mr Hiber, MPs and ministers from this call was completed, and when the agreement was completed and the text was first agreed by the Subcommittee, this team informed 15 September 2006, first all the members of the Subcommittee, then the public, that what was possible professionally, based on the existing texts, was agreed, and that they remained important, large and significant political differences and alternatives. But in the meantime, I am not the first to remind myself of this, this National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, MPs, in the presence of all of you unanimously, after considering the status report, established another decision, to speed up the work and set out in that decision another text that must enter into the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia respected the decision of this home, sent the same day, on 15 September 2006, to the National Assembly a conclusion on the amendment of the Preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and immediately took intensive action to bring the remaining unresolved political and professional alternatives into line, through consultations with representatives of parliamentary political parties, national minorities and province authorities. The result of this work is the conclusion of the text, which today, with the signatures of the 231 MP, lies before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those to whom we provided, and these are the media, all who did not follow closely, so they were fairly unseriously pleading these days, they received complete information, with a list of all the initiatives that came in the previous period, the debates that were being held on them and, of course, how accessible it was. But anyway, I have to share the confidence that I have heard here several times clearly, and from you Mr. Tadic, and from you, Mr. Nikolic, from the other speakers not so precisely, which is that it is certainly important, whenever possible, that after all these six-year debates, reports, comparisons, giving, such as the Council of Europe, on the proposal of the text sent by the Government, give detailed assessments, suggestions, reports, that after all this we might be able to do a little bit more after we discussed the differences, that we are now discussing the similarities that we have accepted. I want to assure you, from where I sit, it's hard to see just as many differences as we sometimes talk about each other. From that place, and so is my obligation, there are much easier similarities on key issues. I want to testify to you, when responsibly, determined that both they and the citizens honor their decision, MPs and all those who have not arrived to join their signatures, and have just come forward, will vote now, unanimously, when you decide to give the citizens the text of the proposal of this constitution, tomorrow at 12:00 p.m., by signing your decision that you will vote afterwards, there will be conditions for the debate and presentation of this proposed text to the citizens. I pray that all of you, those who travel tomorrow, do so in Europe, and the MPs of all the parliamentary groups in this assembly, in Serbia, let's go, to explain why, in this way, after so many painful consultations and persuasion, we have decided to put before the citizens that they give themselves the text of a new constitution. Because, on the one hand, we must respect each individual's protection and obligation to care for his country, but we must not impose on him the obligation to keep the state's flag on his shoulders, but to create conditions for the state flag of the Republic of Serbia to organise places where citizens will decide in the referendum, and each time in the future to do so. To go where the state cares, because this constitution obliges all state authorities to make sure that the state makes sure that the flag of Serbia is high, and that citizens, freely different by all means, except that they are determined to protect their country in order to protect them, go and talk about their differences in elections. Serbia, you have said several times, is an old house, and we must, in order for it to be comfortable for everyone, to reorganize it in such a way as to strengthen it, as the Prime Minister said. First the foundations. This is the foundation from which we will start, so that we can all renovate, create, introduce new furniture together, decide a little about what the committee of our lives is, the citizens will surely support it. I just want to thank you once again to all of you who have managed to recognize a moment where it's almost hard to endure, because of the need for reason, what your heart is saying, and tonight some of you have just been stuttering sometimes, because it's so hard, it's so important. And therefore, surely, when you vote this proposal, we will be able to build the foundation of that house and go after the flag that is high and solemnly raised. I thank all those who helped, some of them are halls, many are out of the hall, it has not only lasted these six years, it lasts in Serbia, when one constitution is passed on to change the constitution and move towards objections. Thank you for allowing such a legitimate and democratic kind of change. Thank you. [[Applause]] Since no word has yet been reported, or so far, I'm sorry, I'm asking if anyone else who hasn't used his right wants a word. Representative Veroljub Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29554	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure to be a Parliamentarian tonight. I really feel it. I know you feel it, too. It seems to me that the President of the Republic, and the Prime Minister, and the Ministers and the Serbian public, have the same feeling. It's just like that, and I'm proud, and I think you're proud, and as Mr. Nikolic said, I think we'll all be really proud of this historic moment that we're in right now. We're proud of all the laws we've passed, and we've returned the markings to our country, to our country's anthem, and we're about to confirm that now. We're proud. We have the most important document in our political career, at least me, and I think most of you do. Document, moment, details. I won't talk about the text, we've heard a lot from the President of the Republic, and from the Prime Minister, and from a colleague of the heads of Parliament. I'll just say there are details where we disagreed. One of them is, for example, something we would like from the New Serbia and the Serbian Renewal Movement, to see Serbia as a monarchy. It's a detail, time will tell, time will tell, and opportunities will show, this constitution can change easily. [[Applause]] So I don't want to discuss the details simply because we have all the details agreed. Well, we agreed on them, and I don't want to talk about it. But I would like to say that it is very important, and I would ask that, now and from now on, given that we have all agreed, there is an agreement that this is our proposal, that we have all put this proposal, all the political parties in parliament, that there are no more details, that there are no more frameworks. So this is the text we propose, and with that text we go before the people. And what I think is even more important is the atmosphere. It seems to me at least we've never had an atmosphere like this before. I remind you that we've had important things like this on the agenda, but we've done a little bit of politics, we've tried some political point, but this time it's not the case, and that's why I'm so proud. With the recognition of all those who participated in the work on this text, which is all, all political parties, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club and nine independent MPs, I say that we will vote with the greatest satisfaction for this proposal and do everything we can to make the referendum work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-30-0.u29555	Thank you. Since there's no record of a word, a little attention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I am concluding the search on the proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we'll do everything, and tonight and the next days, so no one's late, don't worry. You've taken your seats. Thank you. After we have conducted a search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly held a debate on the agenda point of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 30 September, today, in 2006, as the day for voting on the agenda of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, starting at 23 to 10, as we were speaking, and you are now younger, 21.37 hours, or in the way we all understand, immediately. We move to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF THE REPUBLIC REFERENCE FOR THE CONCERNING OF THE NEW CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA One is the point of the agenda, but two votes are required. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, we move on to a decision. I remind you, according to Article 132(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Constitution, decides by a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs. I also remind you that, following the adoption of the Act amending the Constitution, under Article 133(1), the National Assembly puts the constitution on the Republic's referendum in order to confirm, and on the basis of Article 73, point 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia sets out a Republic referendum and, on the basis of Article 10(1). The law on referenda and the People's Initiative makes the decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I put the draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the only corresponding key. For 242, of the 242 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unanimously adopted the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. [[Long applause.]] I have to apologize to everyone who's happy to make remarks, don't mind me, for the first time and for the last time I'm involved in a change of constitution, I'm a little under-experienced. Since the National Assembly, by voting on the proposal for a new constitution of Serbia, adopted a new constitution, to finally adopt the constitution, it is necessary, under Article 133 of Article 1 of the existing still existing constitution, that citizens confirm it in the referendum. That is why it is necessary, now the conditions have just come into play, to put to the vote the decision to call a republican referendum in order to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, with your votes, there have been conditions, to say that it is an integral part of that decision and a date, which will allow for the detailed clarification of all the advantages and importance of the text that you voted for. Also, to allow everyone to arrive, so that no one is late. The preamble of this constitution speaks of Kosovo and Metohija, and the folk song says it should not be late. That is why the date will be on 28 and 29 October 2006. I am putting to the vote The motion for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will take place on 28 and 29 October 2006, and which will contain on the ballot a question - Are you in favour of confirming the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia? For 242, of the 242 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously reached a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the agenda of this session and its decision-making, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Thank you all. My congratulations to you. I hope that in the House of the National Assembly, a few days after the end of this referendum, we will be able to solemnly declare the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, good night and good night.
