ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27670	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Alexander Lazarevic. We are moving to a joint review of the 7th and 8th points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON POLYPRIORITY LAND, ORGANISAL PRODUCTION AND ORGANISAL PRODUCTS A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law under points 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a Law on Organic Production and Organic Products. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly pleased to present to you today two laws that I think are very important to our agriculture. I believe that all parliamentary groups will vote for these two laws, because they contribute to better setting up the foundations for more successful and profitable production. When we came to the Ministry and the government started working, we said that for the successful development of agriculture it was very important to develop a successful land lease market and to develop the credit market. We believe that the agricultural land law is just contributing to the functional land market. It will allow the country to use those farmers to make the most of the profits from using the agricultural land. Also, editing this matter will facilitate access to loans through the possibility of using land to provide credit and, of course, it promotes a change in farm size. In addition to economic functions, the very important function of land policy is in rural development, so providing for those who stayed to live in the country to reach agricultural land. Of course, land also has an emotional function, because it is our homeland or grandfather, and that is why it is also important how land policy is arranged. The government made clear at the beginning of the mandate, and is working on the fact that the land is the subject of restitution and therefore all issues that are being settled, and in relation to the land, must also be related to the return of land to those of whom it has been taken. In addition, land is one of the subjects of negotiations with the EU and all countries have negotiated for at least seven years a derogation that agricultural land is not sold to foreigners after entering the EU, and Poland has negotiated for 12 years, which is our goal. Of course, the land is one of the biggest potentials we have, because there are 5.1 million hectares of agricultural land in Serbia and of which 4,225,000 hectares are processed. This law will regulate the planning, protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. In the chapter on planning, the law foresees the establishment of a basis, and the basis is a spatial plan act, both at the level of the Republic, at the level of the province and at the level of local self-government. The law regulates all procedures, from adoption to implementation of the basics, and also provides for two types of controls, and these are professional control of the basics and public insights on the basis of which local self-government, both the province and the Republic. One of the most important parts of the law is the protection of agricultural land. The law prohibits the release and disposal of dangerous and harmful substances; it lays down the obligation to control the fertility of processed agricultural land and the quantities of minerals, fertilisers and pesticides consumed. The law also obliges to examine the quality of agricultural land and water for irrigation and disposal, prescribes counter-erozione and other measures, prohibits the use of agricultural farmland for non-agricultural purposes, prohibits the deforestation of regulated parcels to a smaller area than one hectare, determines what damage it is, such as burning harvests, and prescribes measures to protect agricultural land from frost, city and fire. The law regulates agricultural land in such a way as to define membership, and for the first time defines voluntary land grouping. The state will help those who willingly regroup their land and regulate hydro and agromelioration. The part of the law most discussed in the public debate is the use of agricultural land, especially the part relating to the use of agricultural land in state property. The plan and programme of land use in social property is being decentralised and will be built by local self-government. For the first time, farmers, therefore natural persons, will be able to apply equally for the lease of agricultural land. The State has defined this law as not selling agricultural land, but to rent it to both legal and physical persons under equal conditions. It is impossible to sell agricultural land until the process of restitution is complete. Also, Article 1 of the Law already defines that agricultural land cannot be sold to foreign legal and physical persons. For the first time, therefore, the law prohibits the sale of foreign legal and physical persons. We are really struggling that agricultural land is taken by those, therefore, by the family of commercial land, which we think is the most competitive and that they will know best how to exploit that agricultural land. As a result, this law defines that the state country is being leased. That's what we've decided for a number of reasons. First of all, there is no developed market for long-term loans, then the land is subject to restitution, the lease much better determines the owner and the profitability, but sells and a large offer in a short time would lead to price depression. Of course, land is currently low compared to the EU, for a number of reasons: and because of the degree of economic and political instability, and because of the difficulty in predicting movement on the market, there is no clearly defined ownership of land and in all cases is not a demarcated social and state land. We also do not currently have land-related subsidies, as is the case in the EU. The law will also establish an information system on agricultural land, which will keep records of agricultural land space data and establish the maintenance of the entire information system, not only those relating to state land, but all land. So the most significant newspaper in this bill is primarily decentralisation. What does that mean? It means local self-government is building a program of use. Someone who lives in one place where there are several thousand hectares of state agricultural land knows much better than the Government, from the minister of what is a strategy for the development of agriculture in that place: whether it is a strategy to keep the agricultural combination and to employ citizens from that village or from that city, or whether it is a strategy to allow farmers who are making progress, and in many of them a limiting factor in progress is that they cannot reach agricultural land, accumulate possessions and expand, and that it is more important for this local self-government. The ministry and the government are letting the program go to local self-government. They can define the functional continents that they will lease and define all other conditions of public competition for the lease of land. The allocation of compensation funds will be: 40% for local self-government; then, we accepted an amendment by the Vojvodina Assembly that 30% goes to the Vojvodina administration because they also make their basis for using state land and the last 30% goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Ministry is also planning to set up a farm land administration, as there are long ago Water Administration, Forest Administration and indeed agricultural land is a very important resource and it must be known who is responsible for all strategic programmes, as well as their more efficient application. We believe that this law will make a significant contribution to the use of agricultural land by those who are willing to process it, because local self-government can give public competition to those parcels that are not processed, and the money goes to the owner of the land plot. So this is where we hope that those who have given up on agriculture, who can no longer be competitive, will have some compensation for land use, and that those who think they can better use the land come to a larger area. We believe that this law, in addition to regulating the use and protection, will, if it is applied quickly and efficiently, contribute to the use of land by those who can be more profitable and thus improve our agriculture. I invite you all to vote for this law, because this law is good for farmers, for couples, for hosts, and it is also good for our Republic of Serbia. The second law on the agenda today is the organic production and organic products law. Organic production is a production based on natural processes and the use of organic matter. It is the production that takes place without the use of plant protection and nutrition products that are synthetic-chemical origins, synthetic medicines, growth regulators and genetically modified organisms. Organic production is not traditional production, extensive production, production with low quality and health safety standards or production that produces large profits with small investments. Organic production requires a lot of knowledge and respect for procedures. It is very important for us to place organic production on the right basis, because the production and processing of primary products into food of high nutritional value and non-food products will increase market values and we will get products that are competitive with prices and quality for domestic and for the paying side of the market. In this way, we will also maintain and increase the fertility of land, protect and improve natural resources in general, and organic production can also make a very significant contribution to sustainable rural development, diversification of the rural economy and improvement and the creation of conditions for the survival and market orientation of small land that form the basis of the survival of rural communities in Serbia. The adoption of this law was initiated by producers of organic agricultural and food products, processors and organisations authorised to control organic agricultural production. The current organic farming law, which was adopted in the federal parliament and passed into the jurisdiction of the Republic Ministry, was dysfunctional and incomplete and applied only to agricultural and food products and protected only the YU label - food product from organic agriculture. Under the old law, the Ministry of Agriculture had no trained organic production inspectors, and the price of establishing and maintaining the national certification system was too high. As a result, there was no interest among organic products producers in the possession of this certificate because it was not known on the world market and no certification has been issued since 2000. According to data provided voluntarily by organisations authorized by the Ministry of Organic Production Control in 2004, 200,550 hectares were certified, of which 542 hectares were areas on which cultures were grown, and 200,000 hectares were areas from which plant species were collected from natural habitats. In 2005, a total of 368,000 hectares were certified, of which there are slightly more than 571 hectares of area on which crops are grown, and the rest are areas from which plant species have been collected from natural habitats. What makes the new law? The organic production and organic products law applies not only to primary agricultural products but also to food and non-food products in which raw materials are produced by organic production methods. By adopting this law, we also receive accompanying regulations, of which eight are related to organic plant and livestock production, the collection of plant and animal species from natural habitats, the processing, handling of organic products, labelling, transport, unique records and certification, and this is in line with EU rules so that we can export all these products to both the EU and other markets. This will legalise the work of foreign and create conditions for the establishment of domestic certification organisations. The certification organisations which satisfy the conditions to be prescribed by the Regulation which is in accordance with European Standard N 45011 shall be empowered by the Ministry and the Code, and shall be obliged to send monthly and annual reports to the Ministry for the purpose of keeping a unique record of the manufacturer, issued certificates and certificates for imported organic products. The creation of conditions for monitoring and registration of organic production will allow for the proposed and justified measures to encourage this production. This regulation will create a positive competition among certificationists, costing certification services, allowing manufacturers less paying power and less production to verify their production as organic, and hiring domestic experts on certification and advisory activities. Monitoring of the quality of the work of certification organisations will be carried out by inspectors for organic production. Similarly, the application of the new law will clearly underline the difference between organic and conventional products; the law will prohibit the use of terms such as ecological, biological, organic, or eco-friendly, whether or not certified in accordance with this law. A national sign for organic products will be introduced, consumers will be able to purchase a confirmed quality product, and by placing a label that clearly indicates the origin, quality and methods of production will prevent consumers from being led astray. The new law will have a stimulating effect on the engagement of new businesses, competition and employment of domestic personnel. Regulation of organic production will contribute and develop tourism and hospitality, based on organic production and use of organic products. I thank you for your attention and invite you to vote for these two laws, because they are good for our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27672	Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Mašić, authorised representative of the SRS, please welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27673	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that we have been given the opportunity to talk today about a very important law in the field of agriculture. I also find it unusual to look back today and say something about the work of the Ministry of Agriculture in the past period during which they function in the ministry. I sincerely hope that what my fellow MPs and I are going to say today will not be a new cause for the launch of an unfeeling campaign to ban the Serbian Radical Party. I will try to convince both you and the public in the Republic of Serbia what is wrong with this proposed law, and I will also try to show with the facts that the Ministry of Agriculture has worked and how much it has done for the interest of all agricultural producers, especially as the minister, and other co-workers at the Ministry of Agriculture, raises the assessment of positive work, and certainly representatives from the parliamentary group, on high performance assessments by the Ministry of Agriculture in the past period and reforms carried out in the past. Well, let's get out of here first. Reforms, I suppose we'll agree, involve the adoption of legislation in the area of agriculture. This government and this ministry have so far presented four legislative proposals from the area of agriculture in this assembly, three of which have been adopted, namely the Law on Fruit Material, the Law on Plant Seeds and the Law on Veterinary Use, and the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Laboratorys has been withdrawn from the procedure. We're discussing two laws today. One of these two is just the law on agricultural land, and this is the law that should have been passed immediately after their arrival to power, and if not before that, then after the adoption of a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture, because this is the very document that they tasked themselves with bringing the law. He should regulate the management of one of the most important resources in this country, and that is land, certainly state land. And here, the public, farmers are witnesses when we're discussing this law. I have a memo here, which arrived on July 20th last year to me as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, in which Mrs. Dulic informs me that in the final phase of the public debate on the law and that the law will come to parliament in autumn and be adopted. This is not the first time that the Committee on Agriculture and, in the extreme, the agricultural public has been disavowed, that the legislation in the area of agriculture is only promising, and that nothing is essentially done on it. Mrs. Dulic said at a meeting in Vienna on June 2nd that she would resign if the law was not passed, as she believes the law is so important. She said this before a meeting organised right in front of G17 plus and the association of these agricultural producers who support the Ministry of Agriculture's minister and policy; these were primarily agricultural producers that received significant incentives in the past period for the development of agriculture. I'm going to say about it by the names of people, how much money they've received, because I think it's high time to talk about it openly, you can no longer cover it up. In my view, it is extremely inappropriate for the minister to have, at a time when the law was entered into the procedure, when it was included in the agenda, blackmailed also the MPs and the public that he would have abdicated if the law was not passed, and by the way, that law was expected for almost two years, if not more. Something like that is inadmissible and inappropriate. My colleagues and I will today try to show our farmers and our public that it is really high time for Mrs Dulic and the Ministry of Agriculture to change, because I think they did nothing significant and capitalally for the area of agriculture. I've already mentioned legislation that has absolutely failed, and on this basis I can't talk about some significant reforms, that they've implemented them, because I don't know what they've implemented, what they've implemented. What they have done positively for agricultural producers, only somewhat positively, are incentives that have been provided in the Republic budget over the past period. However, what they are resented and what is on several occasions and on the Committee on Agriculture is resented and requested by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister, it has informed the dedicated spending of these funds and information on who these agricultural producers have received these incentive funds. The Agriculture Committee did not receive such information; they only received three members of the Committee; they had the right to see the list and recorded the names of 15 persons who should be visited in the next period and to see if those funds that these agricultural producers had received were spent on purpose. The regulation which regulates the use and use of these funds is absolutely implies that the agriculture and finance ministries, as it goes through them, exercise supervision and insight into the dedicated spending of these funds and inform the public. (Loud voices: say something about the law. I'll tell you about the law. I ask experts to be patient, to have so much tolerance. You'll be given a chance to go out for a pay phone. This is all about this law. Right now, I want to say how much this intransparency in the allocation of funds has allowed individuals to get the funds. On Friday, you could get information that Mr. Vitosevic, who was an adviser to Mr. Miroljub Labus for Agriculture, received a loan in 2004 of 13,470,000 dinars, a loan used to buy heifers, as a breeding material, and to cultivate them, to improve agricultural production. However, these heifers that were imported had certain diseases that were inadmissible in our country; they were infected with leukosis and infectious bovine diarrhoea, and this parliament was informed. What is particularly inadmissible is that the funds provided for the incentive are essentially used to resell these heifers and make money on budgets afterwards. It's those who make up the association of agricultural producers "105 plus", so, 100 pairs and again something plus... For example, Mr. Maleshev, who is the president of this and who favors the ministry's policy and Mrs. Dulic, received 200,000 euros to buy the machinery and to take the country in the arena and process and do radio services to others. Of course, this gentleman belongs to the G17 Plus Group. Mr. Dragisa Boric of Lukic took on a lease from the Jaksic Cooperative, 1,200 hectares at the price of 2,400 dinars, and he received incentive funds to buy machinery and to process the country, so he did not have his own land, but rather had his own land to rent, to buy machinery and to use and make money for it. Furthermore, Mr Miroslav Ivkovic of Žednik received about 100,000 euros, also a member of G17 Plus. These are all persons who are represented as couples by ministers and their associates, that they are agricultural producers and that they are improving agricultural production, and essentially they are using or using these funds to acquire machinery and other benefits and to make money on the resources of all citizens. It's a policy of G17 plus, it's a policy of improving agricultural production. (Lowers from the O.R.: What does the law say? You'll hear what the law says. What I still want to say, and what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, which certainly has to do with the law, is that the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Dulic absolutely does not respect our scientific and professional public, does not appear at gatherings organised by significant institutions such as the Institute of War and Vrtivstvo, which is held every year by a large gathering in Zlatibor, where various topics are being discussed, but is coming to a gathering of couples, called "Popaora", at the same time financial assistance with two million dinars, a gathering held in Banja Vrujci, because they are voters G17 plus, because they are people who support Mrs. Minister. This is not a policy that should be guided by the interest of agricultural production. The policy led by the Ministry will bring us into the situation this year that we will import wheat, because the policy was that wheat is an incompetent production plant and that it should not be sown, should be defined for some other cultures. This year, at least since the war, has been sown under the wheat, and yet, unfortunately, the rains have affected that this year, by all estimates of our top experts dealing with this cereal, the yields will be below two million tons, which will significantly endanger our food potential. We can get into a situation where, besides all resources, we can import wheat. I'm asking both you and our farmers if this is a policy to be supported, is it a policy of the Ministry that brings good to agricultural producers? During the interpretation of the law, during a public debate, and even on the Committee on Agriculture, the minister said she was fighting the tycoon and their abuse of agricultural land through the bill. I'll show you on one occasion what that fight looks like. One of the mentioned is Mr. Miskovic and the Delta Company. "Delta Bank" as an incentive in 2004, gave agricultural producers 4,667 loans worth 281,304,000 dinars as short-term loans. Furthermore, the first public debate on the long-term strategy for agricultural development was in the Delta Company in 2004. The third thing, a few months ago, "The Unity" from Apatino was sold as a agricultural combination with seven thousand acres. The president of the tender commission was Mr. Zivkov, who is running here for future Minister of Agriculture. His vote on the tender committee ruled, because the gentleman who was in front of the local self-government was in the hospital and couldn't come. So Mr. Zivkov's voice decided that these 7,000 acres and that advanced agricultural combination buy the Delta company right now. Let our public assess from these examples, and you MPs, how the Ministry of Agriculture is fighting the tycoon and against the new dignitaries. In the end, I want to say -- this is still a policy that was designed earlier. I'm not a man who accepts conspiracy theory and believes it, but some things have to be accepted as facts. It has already been announced in public that Mrs. Minister was one of Monsanta's scholarships, the largest US company to produce genetically modified plants. In July 2001, the minister led with 20 of our experts a delegation that hosted the US Ministry of Agriculture and the Monsanta and famous American companies. They spent seven days in Washington, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the rest of the 14 days in Iowa and St. Louis, visiting their agricultural institutes, their plant plantings, certainly genetically modified. In that delegation was Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic, who also promoted the Ministry and Mrs. Dulic every week to B92. If I'm telling the truth, have the authorities of this country check everything I've said. Therefore, it is a policy that has been designed from somewhere and which is being imposed and led as an agricultural policy of our country. It cannot be of interest, such a ministry and this work by the Minister of Agriculture cannot be tolerated and cannot be defended, even by your campaign to ban the work of the Serbian Radical Party. You're very impatient. I'll speak in principle, I'm an authorised representative. Don't worry, I'll make very basic arguments for the law. What I still want to say is, before I move on to the law -- there is an NGO called Agro Network, which is also promoted by the Ministry and Mrs Dulic. The NGO, according to my knowledge, has received about ten million dollars from the U.S. in the past. Only you tore yourself apart and laugh, Madam Minister, all that will be revealed. So my question for you and for the competent institutions – who is funding this NGO and whose interest it is working for, does it exclusively work for the interests of the Ministry of Agriculture and your policy or is it really an institution that is important for improving agricultural production? Finally, as far as the law is concerned, only in part, this law aims to completely destroy our agricultural combinations, and above all the combination of PIK "Becay" and Combinate PKB Humane, you're very funny, I listened to you last night, you didn't know to explain what the Ministry of Agriculture did during the term of office. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Now you've had a chance to hear what she's done. So, hold on, there'll be an opportunity for you to come out here and say it. Therefore, this law aims to destroy the agricultural combinations completely and precisely to enable newly formed owners, tycoons who, with the help of the Ministry, have come to capital and land and to help these people, as farmers call these agricultural producers who have received incentive funds and bought machinery and are now renting and processing the country. So it's going to be future owners or renters of that state agricultural land. It's not a policy that needs to be supported and we'll fight hard. Of course, in the debate in principle, I will speak more fundamentally about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27674	The word has the Minister of Agriculture Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27675	Dear MPs, everything said here by the gentleman is absolutely not true. That's what all farmers and patrons know. If that's an objection, to be influenced by farmers and paori, I'm very proud of it, then I'm the first minister to care about the interests of farmers, not the interests of parties. The law was to be passed in 1992, when all social property and social property were to be converted into state property. You had a chance in 1996, so it wasn't done. Now we find the best way to save what can be saved, to give the land to the paors, farmers and hosts. It is true that farmers support the Ministry. Once again, it's just a sign of how good we do. Fifty thousand short-term loans, 5,000 long-term, 8,000 gone, of course we're going better. Our policy is not three dinars of bread, but agriculture as one good and economically developed branch; those who can compete to produce, produce more and better, and for others who are not competitive, we make other programmes, such as the income support programme, which was applied by 68,000 of our farmers that you underestimate. None of these people you've listed, and that's another way of calling and labeling people, are members of G17 plus, but they are really members of the best association of farmers. We are proud that the best association of farmers supports this ministry. So we've been fighting to build one system, and that's the system to get the money going to the banks, that money doesn't come to the party or the Ministry, and which you don't manage in that system, that's not the problem of this ministry. As for the gathering in Vienna, we were invited there as guests; the meeting was organised by the Agriculture Magazine. It is true that most agricultural producers were there, because they support the law and because this is the first time that couples will come to land in an equal way, without automatic land being given to tycoons for free. Last year, and this, for the first time, we charged for the use of state agricultural land, which was never done before. So, the couples were paying for the arena, and some of the countries were using it for free. That's what we're changing now. It's never been the more transparent process of allocating funds, and the best of them supporting us, I'm proud of it. I've never been a Monsanta scholarship student, and I'm glad you finally learned the name of that company is pronounced. I've never been a scholarship. I was visiting as a civil servant, and I'm very proud of that. I use every opportunity to learn something, and I'll keep using it. I think that story, as well as the story of Agro Network, with which I have absolutely nothing to do with it for three years now, your complete ignorance and I'm sorry you don't get better informed, if you want to insult me on such ground level. Obviously, you haven't even read the law since this law is just trying to keep those who buy the PKK free of charge from using 25,000 hectares of land, just as in PIC Vienna, not to the one who buys the rest of the shares for free use of the country. So, quite the opposite of this law regulates it. Local self-government, like I said, will decide whether they prefer a combination or a pair. It's really theirs, and we as a ministry will give consent to local self-government decisions. Since you are in power in many local self-government, I believe that's exactly why you will vote for the law, because it will give you the opportunity to better and smarter conduct agrarian policies at a local level. We haven't passed all the laws we promised in the past two and a half years, but we'll have them by the end of the term. Reforms are not just about passing laws, reforms are about law enforcement, laws being applied in practice. That is why it is really important for every law to be done so well that it can be implemented, and that is what our farmers see, know and appreciate in the elections. Our policy cannot make everyone happy, as it has made you happy, but we are fighting for our agriculture to lift their heads, that those who are good are making progress, and that for those others who can't make progress, they will find programs that will allow them to live with dignity in the rich Republic of Serbia. Just to say about the lists and loans: Sasa Vitosevic got credit, a firm in Curug got credit through the bank. He wasn't there at the time. At least you can inform yourself very simply and there is no need to spread incorrect information, hate and resistance to good farmers, because good farmers will carry this country's agriculture and it is up to them to be good, rich and smart, both Vojvodina and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27676	The word is made by MP Zoran Mašić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it's not right to insult ourselves. I haven't offended you for a moment. It's extremely incorrect for you to tell me I didn't read the law. I read it maybe more than you did, and as far as I know, you couldn't explain the organic farming law on the Agriculture Committee. It just says how many times you've read it, and you've read it today. This law in the field of agricultural land certainly is not something that is within the scope of my profession, but I also taught it and in the end you will see when I speak of it. What I want to say and what I want to say, about the incentive funds that this ministry is most proud of, is that the public finds out through which banks these assets are mostly shared, and the public knows who owns these banks. I will speak for 2004 and 2005 until October, short-term loans: The National Savings Bank distributed 8.995 loans of 549,511.000 dinars; in 2005, the National Savings Bank distributed 8,085 short-term loans of 496,884,000, totaling 1,046,395,000. In 2004, the Commercial Bank distributed 1,926 of 118,110, in 2005 6,778 loans of 424,080,000, 542,190,000; Delta Bank in 2004 4,667 of 281,304,000 and Vojvodjanska Banka in 2004, 3.342 of 207,302,000 and 5,228 of loans of 332,920. All banks are directly influenced by G17 plus. As regards long-term loans, in 2005 until October the Commercial Bank distributed 636 loans of 653.324,795 dinars, National Savings Centre 323 loans of 574.133,299 dinars and Vojvodjanska Banka 264 loans of 255,991,000. I'm asking you, is this the kind of distribution of state resources that you're going to hand over to certain banks that are under your authority and the directors that are from the G17 group? Here I categorically deny what Mrs. Dulic stated that, for example, Voja Maleshev was not a member of G17, and in 2004, he opened a agricultural fair in Novi Sad with Mr. Labus. So we're trying to tell the truth to the citizens and stop talking about support, as you say, paora. You only have the support of those couples you have given so far, the incentive funds you have given credit to, which belong to your group or are close to your group, and the largest number of agricultural holdings and farmers neither supports you, nor will they ever vote for you, nor think that as a ministry you have led a good and affirmative policy in the area of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27678	The word has a Minister of Agriculture Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27679	As you know, I am, of course, not the smartest person in the world; I am proud of my team. When you guys have a team like me, who knows better than I do, you'll see how nice it is. So, just the one who doesn't know thinks he knows everything. So I don't know everything, and that's why I have great associates. I'm glad you gave me a chance to thank the banks that went into loaning agriculture. That's something that was our goal when we came to the Ministry and I thank all the banks you listed this way: National, Commercial, Vojvodjanska, Panonska, Kulska Banka, Hypo Alps Adria, Novosadska. All this data, with all these numbers, is on the Ministry of Agriculture website, and that's what's transparent and good, because everyone can see what the bank is trying to do and which bank they can go to for credit. And I also thank you for thinking that it supports us over 100,000 good couples, because that's how many pairs have received subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27680	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and then Sasa Vitošević, and the Messenger of the people Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27681	Mr. Chairman, member 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you must take care of the dignity of this high house. Government official, in this case, Ms. Ivana Dulic-Markovic here can only talk about the bill, as the bill itself states that she is the authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't mind, the government's mistake, I guess they'll take care of it. The minister herself admitted it was a government mistake, because she said everyone on her team was much smarter than her. I believe they are, but I don't know why she's forced herself to be a minister, why she wouldn't let one of these smart people do a job when they already know, because the minister says they do. Also, the minister here tried to say that Professor Masic did not read the law and that he did not know what he was saying. Of course, the public and MPs who are in this room have heard and heard much more about this law, of course from Professor Mašić and the other SRS MPs, but we haven't heard anything from the minister about this law. She brought a woman 14 files, I guess she put all her brains in these files instead of explaining to us here, explaining something extra, not reading, she's stuttering here, she doesn't even know how to read, so she can explain to us something that as a minister can present to the MPs, so we can think about voting for this law. Of course we won't vote, and I'll talk about it when it comes to the law, but it's inadmissible, Mr. Chairman, that the minister here says that MPs are spreading incorrect information and hatred. She can say that we are spreading incorrect information, and we will prove to her that they are correct, as she herself admitted that it is true that Sashi Vitoshevic gave 14 million credits for his co-operation in Curug, as she herself admitted to having been to some gatherings. She just didn't explain to us what she was doing and on behalf of whom she was meeting NGOs 20 days ago in Osijek, whether there was something there on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or some kind of trip. Too bad Minister Jocic didn't put in control of celebrities before that. Although, who would recognize Ivana Dulic at the customs crossing, who knew she was a celebrity. And it is still inadmissible, or a special insult to this parliament, is the last sentence in the first part of the statement by Minister Dulic-Markovic, when she said the law would benefit both Vojvodina and Serbia. Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Vojvodina is Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27682	The word has been given by MP Sasa Vitosevic, as an authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27683	Dear Members of the People, the President-in-Office, I would really like to appeal, because today we are plowing on a very important bill, to go back on the subject, because I think this law is important to our citizens, specifically for farmers. If we're all elected here by citizens, I think it's about time we thought about them. As for the proposal for a law on agricultural land, I would concentrate on several segments of the law which were not processed by previous speakers, and especially by the representatives of the SRS, who at the beginning of his presentation said he would talk about the law, and from his 20 minutes, 47 seconds spoke about the law. I would like to point out that the 14-year-old Agricultural Land Act, which has been overcome in many of its segments because of the various social changes that have occurred in the last 14 years, is one of the most significant motives for the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to propose such a significant law. In order for agriculture to function, it is necessary for the most significant segment, which is a segment of land policy, to be adequately regulated by regulations, not only by law, but also by the accompanying support measures that the Ministry of Agriculture has carried out throughout the past two and a half years, regardless of what the old law has been in force. These support measures have already produced certain results, and of course, when this agricultural land law is adopted and when it comes into force, the support measures and measures provided for by this law will produce even greater results. I also closely followed the public debate on the proposed agricultural land law because of my profession, and unfortunately, this public debate went the other way and was most talked about only one segment of the agricultural land law, which is the segment of the use of state agricultural land. Simply, the public did not pay attention to other significant segments of laws that talk about the arrangement, protection, use of agricultural land, whether private or state-owned. There is a very important segment of agricultural land cohesion, which practically illustrates the most modern trends that are present today in developed countries. I would remind only the MPs and the public that the average property in Serbia is moving between two and three hectares. You will agree with me, it is not possible on such a small agricultural property to carry out profitable or economic agricultural production. Of course, it is possible, if you are engaged only in vegetables, but agricultural production involves other segments, and for this reason this law opens up the possibility and gives instruments to both the Ministry of Agriculture and local self-government to further improve and implement land policy in the context of the most rational use of agricultural land. I would also point out a very significant segment of this law that gives very great authority, but not only powers, but also a very large responsibility to local self-government. In this case, local self-government, with the help of the Ministry, with the help of the Land Administration, one institution that will implement land policy in this country if this law is passed, has the obligation to prepare agricultural grounds that involve a whole series of things, because the law has defined it, I will read it in one segment. So, above all, these are the objectives, tasks and basics of the protection, arrangement and use of agricultural land. So, for the first time, let me point out, in a broader context of decentralisation of government and the lower level of responsibility of government, it opens up the possibility of local self-government to adequately regulate this area, which is the use of agricultural land. Not only that, but to control the implementation. There is the area and structure of the way of using agricultural land. Then, to deal with the state and problems of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, to assess the benefits and restrictions for the development of agricultural production in local self-government units, to propose and implement plan solutions for the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. It is also very important that it also prescribes instructions on the way and measures it will take to implement all these defined measures by this bill. Of course, a common case in our country in the past is that very quality laws were passed, but in most cases they were not implemented. I would return to the still current Agricultural Land Act, which has been in use since 1992. It was a very modern law at the time, however, until today, certain segments of the law were not implemented at all. The law provided for the establishment of a agricultural land fund. He's been formed for a while, but he's never lived, not even today he doesn't exist. Of course, in the meantime, the law was overcome, and even in spite of democratic changes in 2000, it was the idea to form the fund, but simply the law at the time did not allow and did not give instruments to the fund so that it could implement politics. What is most important in this bill, as well as in other laws, is the financial basis for law enforcement. You can see from the bill that a good portion of the funds, and we also heard that the government has accepted the amendment of the Executive Council of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina that 30% of the agricultural land leases for the province are allocated, a large percentage is set aside for local self-government and the rest for the Republic. This law not only prescribes what percentages will be set aside for which level of government, but also the purpose of using these funds. These funds must only be used to improve agricultural land, whether private or state-owned. Once again, it is left primarily to local self-government from that part of the means, because it knows best what the situation in the territory it manages, for which it will use, maintain and improve agricultural land and use the money. Of course, the biggest problem in the Republic of Serbia is exactly the problem of irrigation and deforestation, and I assume that a good part of these funds will be spent first on reconstruction, improvement and construction of new deforestation and irrigation systems. We are witnessing this year the damage to agriculture caused by the floods. Also, a very important thing, if I didn't repeat the things my predecessors said, is an equal position for the first time in accessing state agricultural land by natural persons, as it is often said, I would use the term "agricultural land"; all registered agricultural holdings have an entirely equal approach to the use of state agricultural land. Of course, they have the same rights and responsibilities as regards the bill. Therefore, there is no exemption for implementing the provisions of this law concerning the most use of the entire agricultural land and the measures to be observed in the use of that land, i.e. the processing of agricultural land. I'll remind you that today practically the entire agricultural land is being used exclusively by legal persons. After privatisation, individual legal entities, only those privatised, pay compensation for the use of agricultural land. However, the largest number of legal entities today using agricultural land do not pay that fee. It's not that bad. The scariest thing is that many legal entities have been brought into a very difficult position in the past because of poorly-led agricultural policies. Many of them are also in the pre-profit or bankruptcy process and the largest area of the state agricultural land, and not to mention the agricultural land owned by these companies, are not being processed or adequately processed. It is therefore very important that this law enters into force as soon as possible, in order to firstly give local self-government the instruments to make, prepare a plan for the use of this state agricultural land. In the past, it proved wrong for Belgrade to manage everything and everything. Not because there are all smart heads in Belgrade, but because a man from Belgrade simply cannot know what is going on on in the field and whether a combined or physical person is adequately using agricultural land or not. That's why these levels of responsibility are divided, and of course the rights, but also the obligations that these levels must carry out. There is one sentence within the cohesion measure, which is that the property, in particular the property of agricultural land which was the subject of the commission cannot be divided and reduced to an area less than one hectare, and the land which was not the subject of a commission to less than half a hectare. We are witnessing that, above all, in the process of inheriting agricultural land, there is a continuing deforestation of property, which is not good. Some developed countries have regulated it in part of the inheritance law. I hope that this will be initiated by our government to make certain changes, but this provision itself will in some way prevent this very negative phenomenon in our society, and this has happened in other countries as well. The very important thing is that the law creates a legal framework for the creation of an institution, it is the management of land management and the administration of agricultural land, which will worry about the implementation of this law, and the framework that this law provides for the construction of an information system in the area of agricultural land. Unfortunately, today you have very little accurate data on land users, on the structure of that land, on how to use this land by those who process it, and not to say that users who do not have the right to use this land appear. We have witnessed in the past that some users have caused real ecological disasters on individual parcels. I'm just going to set an example from a few years ago in the area of Zrenjanin, where and today these 50 acres can no longer be used because of inadequate use of pesticides. This is exactly what this law must regulate, but I repeat, not only will Belgrade worry about how anyone uses agricultural land, but just local self-government, because they need to know best what is going on in their atarium and how they will implement these measures. The organic production law, which is also the subject of this debate, is also a very important legal framework that opens up the possibility for our producers, unfortunately not immediately, but with certain activities that the state authorities must take over very quickly. I would not talk about the law itself, because the minister explained, to say, the advantages of this law, I would just point out a few steps that must be taken urgently after the adoption of this law so that finally this segment of agricultural production, which people like to talk about, is the future of Serbia, so they say more – healthy food. You know, food can't be healthy or sick, food can only be organically produced or produced in a conventional way. But, I say, that food produced organically needs to find its customers first and foremost on the European market. If you look at the analyses from the past six years, practically since 1999 to the day of today, the trend of using organically-produced food is growing significantly, especially in developed countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany, France, because this is, of course, expensive food and is not available to the wider population. Our country can get a piece of cake in this European, or global market, to place its products. The first step of our state authorities, I believe, may have taken over, I really have no information, is to finally create conditions, and this law will create one part of the conditions, that foreign or recognised certification houses finally appear on our market and enable our manufacturers to carry out certification both of their land, their production process and their final products and thus can be exported. As I said, this law provides an excellent legal framework which, with significant involvement of the state administration, should allow these products that have a perspective on the market to find their customers and, of course, improve the profitability and competitiveness of our agriculture. I really won't be a demagogue, like my predecessor and my colleague Mr. Mašić, so he said – I hope my exposure won't cause controversy in this home. You know how, this is the only place where we have to pollute, but again, I appeal to all the MPs of the people -- let's work out what's the subject of the agenda. However, this speaker has been told falsely, and not only are there documents that prove these untrues, I think that whoever utters these lies will be punished in some other way, which is primarily in the elections, when people who vote for a certain option will realize that their candidates are telling the truth. I will remind you that your party, the Serbian Radical Party, is in power in the municipality of Žablj, where there is a company where I am employed. Since you're in power, I assume most of the citizens in that territory voted for you and you. I don't know if after these false things are told, they'll trust you again, for the simple reason that all you've said is the truth that my name is Sasa Vitosevic, everything else is a complete lie. I'd like to point out, because morale obliges me to do something like that, not to protect myself personally, but to protect the company where I work and the people in which I work, because I'm not the owner of that company... The owners of the company, there are about 400 of them, these are small shareholders and I want to protect their right, they asked me to deny these untrues that have been told today and in previous statements, above all, by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. The credit you're talking about is the company got, and of course you didn't say credit, but that the Minister of Agriculture gave me money. So, the loan he was talking about got a firm almost eight months before I got a job at that firm, so I really didn't have a head job at that time. The loan was granted through a business bank, therefore, not by the minister of agriculture, but through a business bank, as well as 5,000 other legal and natural persons, who have received similar loans in this country in the past period. Also, I have to deny you, and I say, people know that, your voters know that the company I'm employed in doesn't do cattle production, so there's no heifer, there's no cow. I don't know what to tell you, it's that old saying, and that's Sasha Vitoshevic's brother, a thief, and you, Mr. Vitoshevich, prove that you don't have a brother. So, it looks like the SRS, but it's not my place to criticize you, it's going to be punished by voters in the municipality of Toad, who know these facts, because they live in that municipality. I must point out, because I have information that, above all, Mr. Mašić, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, initiated the establishment of a commission to investigate the case. (President: You've exceeded your time, bring your discussion to an end. Here I am, thank you. Unfortunately, when they got to this data they stopped investigating; they didn't find it interesting, because they realized that everything was really done right there. What has really caused it, I must say, laughter, you know, is being amputated here by the minister that it is a shame that he travels abroad and travels to perfect himself, as well as his associates; and not only his associates, but other experts have traveled to that delegation to America. Also, please, the minister criticises why he traveled to Osijek. Well, gentlemen, the minister traveled with the Dutch Minister of Agriculture to Osijek, and then you inform yourself. I know you're well-informed, but you're only talking to those segments that you think look like a speech that suits you, because again, I don't want to contribute to the campaign that was launched by the public, not the G17 plus, that speech that's constantly being said for this speaker. The other thing is, I'm shocked by the statement that banks are being criticised here because they're giving out loans. Well, you know what, we best go back to the time of the conducting economy, and this, gentlemen, is the agrarian policy that you supported while you were in government. So this is an agrarian policy where I'm just going to read a few segments, which is: determining the volume and level of protection prices, prescribing forms of protection prices, and then institutionalising special forms of protection prices. So, the role of the National Bank in the development of agriculture, gentlemen, please, that's your agrarian policy, which is - let's print money and buy grain. You know what, I don't have to talk, people know how much wheat has been paid in your time and who could buy and trade wheat, so I don't want to waste time on controversy about these things. I thank and, of course, I call on all the MPs to support this law, because this law opens in the good part of the door for entry into the EU, and I think it is the goal for all of us. Thank you and I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27684	Replica, MP Zoran Mašić. Mr. Stojanovic, are you, as an authorised representative, reporting? Yeah, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27685	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for replica. As MPs, we are obliged, and for our sakes and for the sake of the public, to tell the truth behind this speaker. Mr. Vitošević has made more lies in his presentation. I'm only going to hold on to one or two of the findings that dissuade the public and that I haven't discussed in my debate. First of all, don't disavow the public on the matter of the bank and our opposition that the incentive funds to improve agriculture go through banks. We are not against this, when we come to power, we will ask the banks to participate even more in the lending of agricultural production, not only with 10%, as they are now participating; and 90% of the banks you speak of are using our state money, the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is money from the budget, and you direct that money into only a few banks. The bottom line of our remarks and criticism is that you only direct these money to a few banks where the directors of G17 plus or are close. We also criticise these directors, because the banks approve, they receive requests, they approve, and the ministry just confirms and that's why it happens, and that's why we suspect the well-meaning of this idea of bank behaviour and we have the knowledge that people close to you, members of G17 plus or supporters of G17 plus, are getting these incentives. That's the point. Don't blur it out and talk about us fighting what's going through the banks. The second thing Mr. Vitosevic said, he was not engaged in the trade of heifers. Mr. Vitosevic, last year, just from the Ministry of Agriculture to my parliamentary question, the answer came to how much you imported the heifer last year. I'll show you the paper. That's what all the MPs got, that those heifers were infected with two infectious diseases, leucosis and viral diarrhoea; in the end, and you know where the diagnostics were done, and I worked at that institute, with two sources I got that information. Therefore, do not be false. It's even worse if you don't do cattle production, and you've imported and reselled heifers, bought at one price and sold at another price. It's something that no one should be doing, especially you who were a counselor, at least that's how it was in public, agriculture counselor to President G17 plus. I didn't even know you were the director, I just knew that you were co-owner of this cooperative, the farm "Future" from Curuga, and on that basis these funds were received in late 2004, and used in 2005. Therefore, do not speak falsely, do not cloud things, but recognize what you have done, i.e. which you have misused function, position of member G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27686	The word is by MP Brance Stojanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27687	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, before I try to say a few words about this law, that no one resents me, and at least the Minister of Agriculture, I have a brief reference to the state of agriculture in our country, I would ask Mr Vitosevic that we do not mention this time and especially the price of wheat, because we know that it was a problem, so to speak, of all governments. The Dossov government... There was no G17 plus then participated and Mrs. Dulic was not in the story, but we know how much the price of wheat was then, that she did not change after those October changes you mentioned, that she was exported, so imported at a much higher price, etc. I mean, the past tense was hard on our people, and that poor farming of ours is the most, I would say, a tribute to that. Not to go back to it, but to turn to the future and see what we do, that one important resource of this country, which is exactly what we're talking about today, is land, and therefore agriculture and agricultural production, and by certain laws and polemics that we lead to being in the function of the development of a branch, such as agriculture. Today when we talk about agriculture, because the subject of two, according to us socialists, is very important, the law, and the law on agricultural land and organic products, when on the agenda are the laws of agriculture, the interest of the general public, and we see both representatives and the general public here in parliament, is being strengthened despite the facts (and we socialists are assessing it as good in the work of this ministry) that public debate is being extended in the adoption of a certain law of the professional public, so that these two laws, which are already in front of MPs of the National Assembly for a long period of time, are on the evaluation of the professional public. At first, I would also like to say that we Socialists are not satisfied with this legislative activity in the area of agriculture, i.e. we believe that the Ministry of Agriculture did not offer a larger number of laws, although the plans (at least what was presented as a plan to the Assembly Committee on Agriculture) were much more ambitious, but we will accept what the Minister said – that it is not the most important quantity, that it is a more important quality. However, what was delivered to the Committee as a work plan, unfortunately, was not realized in the Assembly. We know that we are expected from many areas of the law, the laws are necessary; it seems to me that today is a public debate of the cooperative law. Although this law is not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, we think that the Ministry of Agriculture must and how to include, of course, the Resolute Committee on Agriculture. Mr Rafaelovic, on the Committee on Agriculture, has several times initiated and argued that if no one else remembers from the government, whether one or another ministry, the Committee initiates the adoption of this law, because the situation, as far as cooperatives are concerned, is difficult. It is, according to our assessment, very modest, very important for the functioning of agriculture, because Serbia's agriculture is not only agriculture of Vojvodina, where large possessions are; Serbia's agriculture is also Serbia's rope, where small properties, where small producers are, where it is simply impossible to function without the organized gathering of farmers of certain specialities. We Socialists believe that it is necessary to adopt a much larger number of laws from agriculture, because the problems in agriculture are great. The agricultural land law cited the implementation of the Serbian Agriculture Strategy as one of the reasons for the adoption of this law. We have been seriously engaged in our party bodies, we have discussed this with Madam Minister at the Parliament Group – we are asking, we are asking, we are asking that the Strategy of Agriculture adopted by the Government, which the Committee on Agriculture has made a positive statement, means representatives of all parties on that committee, to say we were unanimous, we think that this strategy should be the subject of discussion and assembly, i.e. the Assembly is considering a strategy for the development of agriculture. We think that many of the doubts that exist, possibly and differences, would be reduced to a lesser extent, I am also taking advantage of this opportunity, although Mrs Dulic said she did not mind that it would also be a topic of assembly debate, so I appeal that the Assembly is considering the Strategy and that many misunderstandings are removed in the adoption of future laws in the area of agriculture, which, as Mrs Dulic often knows to say, the strategy is an umbrella. When it comes to agricultural laws, why public interest is great, and this, as we can see from today's debate, is seen. We think the problems in agriculture are great. Of course, I don't want to say this time that it's exclusively the responsibility of these people sitting here in the front row and the Minister of Agriculture. Problems have been accumulated for many years. Allow me to express my parliamentary group's position on the current situation in agriculture. Of course, we welcome all the measures that the Ministry makes to change this. So, since 2000, this has been a policy aimed at importing almost everything for the diet of citizens, and what Serbia normally produces. We're importing today, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, not to say everything, but I'm going to count some basic products. We import even wheat, tomatoes, cucumbers, white and black onions, potatoes, apples, pears, meat, all kinds of meat processing, milk, sweets and other confectionery products, juices, etc. In one word, we import anything Serbia produces or at least can produce. The consequences of all this for agriculture and for peasants, and I would say the national economy, are great: a farmer has no one to sell his products to, and the state separates hundreds of millions of dollars for the import of food. The only benefits are import lobbys, which make good money, which are unearthly rich because of this kind of policy. Privatisation in agriculture – of course, we know that the responsibility for this is not borne by the Ministry of Agriculture, but I think that the situation and how it reflects the general situation in agriculture – is carried out through bankruptcy, sale, sale and indemnity. New owners of the inn, and workers in the largest number of enterprises have no use. Dear ladies and gentlemen, in all this story, peasants have been completely excluded from privatisation, and they have also participated in the creation of the country's national wealth. I must say, the original privatisation laws passed by the Socialist Party of Serbia, or had responsibility for them, were also not treated by peasants. I don't think that's good. As far as the agricultural land law itself, which regulates the planning, protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, is a law which, according to us, should have been found much earlier in the assembly procedure, because the law is needed for our agriculture for a number of reasons, we heard it here and from Madam Minister, means, the adoption of a agricultural basis for the protection, arrangement and use of agricultural land, for the territory of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the municipality. It defines the protection of agricultural land and the regulation of agricultural land, the use of agricultural land in state property. Here we come to a little problem, conditionally speaking, as far as we're socialists are concerned. That's what we talked about with Mrs. Secretary. We have certain dilemmas, not to say fear of selling state property, although we respect the attitude and people who deal with it, and Mrs. Minister, that in the previous law there was such a possibility. So we're afraid that one of the most important resources of this country, means agricultural land in state property, God forbid, at a baffle price goes and sells to tycoons who, unfortunately, as we know, through privatization of large systems, primarily social land in Vojvodina, come to extremely large properties. This is what Mr. Mika Vlaovic often spoke of on the Committee on Agriculture, that no one ever owned such properties in Vojvodina. As a parliamentary group, we have invested one amendment, the minister knows that, where we are asking that the law explicitly says that the sale of state land is prohibited. We have an explanation that is reasonable and that we can understand, but our dilemmas are, don't mind us, such that, God forbid, someone abuses it, although it's clear to Article 1 that this process of selling state countries is impossible until the process of restitution is carried out. Also, our principled position here will be spoken of by Mr. Hranislav Peric, as regards the education of the agriculture land administration – we thought, although we have heard the data that have denied us a little bit, that our Ministry of Agriculture, compared to the agriculture ministries of the countries in the environment, which have similar areas, is significantly less and that in some ways, is a bit of a denial about this. There's another dilemma here, and we're going to talk about it, although we've talked a lot about it on the parliamentary group, and we've kind of accepted Mrs. Minister of Agriculture's explanation. One amendment has been made, and Mr Smiljanić will speak about it – the agricultural land in the state property is leased for 20 years, without public advertising, the current land user when: the current land user takes up the total area of the agricultural land in the state property; if this agricultural land makes up the base of re-proportion (warning - livestock - processing) and if the current land user is the owner of the irrigation and disposal system, multi-annual plantings, ponds and other production facilities of higher value on agricultural land that is leased. Why have we tabled this amendment? We sort of accepted the minister's explanation, but we still have a great fear. These large systems are, unfortunately (that is the fact, with which I think the people of the ministry and the minister will agree), the only ones currently in our country with processing capacity. I think the big problem with our agriculture is the very low degree of finalisation of agricultural products. If we want (and I don't think there's any dilemma in this room, especially the people of the Ministry) to raise agriculture to one higher level and give our peasants the opportunity to valorize their production in one higher way, without the processing capacity of it, I think you'll agree with me, no. I say, unfortunately, the big combinations are in a very difficult position, they're in the bankruptcy process. These bankruptcys usually take a long time. I'm just going to give an example from my neighborhood, which is fratern, which may not even be to mention, but it's simply true. The Smederev area was a vineyard area. He's not that anymore. Why? Because the agricultural combination of Godomin, unfortunately, has been in big trouble for a long time. There was a wine cellar within the Godomin combination. The "Gdomin" is in bankruptcy, people were forced, because the only capacity was... We do not have, unfortunately, such producers, yet to live; we have in the wider environment of the Cranjevs, there are these so-called so-called "Cranjes". little basements, which is absolutely fine. But simply, peasants have disembarked their vineyards, social vineyards have been abandoned, not processed for three years. It is something that Mrs. Dulic will agree with, not for the pride of any of us here, and of course not for the people of the Ministry, that the wineries that have an extremely long tradition, which in the near past even exported to the U.S. area, have been destroyed. So we stay on this amendment, because we are afraid that in this way we will tear up these large systems and maybe shut down, maybe it will be for a shorter period; maybe the privatisation process will bring some new owners, who may better organise the processing and finalisation of agricultural products than the existing ones, I agree with that, but I'm afraid that right now we can lead to the lack of capacity, the destruction of these processing facilities, and we can't get a higher degree of final products and thus valorize agricultural production in a better way than previously. Since, unfortunately, time is running out, we will try to through discussions of SPS MPs and through amendments, say a few words about this issue that I have raised this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27688	The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27689	I agree with a colleague who just said that it is necessary to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and I would like to suggest that we no longer go into debates on a personal level. I think this country already has courts, it's had courts before, they'll get better. So, if anyone has done anything, especially when you come to power, gentlemen, you announce it, you will have the opportunity to sanction everyone, if he did it. I don't think we should do that for this speaker and I want to return the debate on what's on the subject today, or on the law. What interests me, and what matters to me, is that we get an answer, and I'm asking you to attack the law from all sides if the law doesn't provide it, so, by returning this law to the management of state land to local self-government, municipalities, correcting one great injustice, which is, for example, around my village thousands of hectares are processing some people, selling, giving privates from 1990 to 2000, changing bad land for the better, and people have come to a great fortune. This way local self-government will be able to manage it. Secondly, the topic here is the biggest and where the most amendments are going to be, that is, let's say, the PIC Bechei question, the question of the other combinations, so whether this law, and I think it prevents tycoons from coming to state land for free. If we don't lie, that land, and the combination tomorrow someone will buy, it will be rich people; my colleague Mašić and I will certainly not participate in tenders and auctions. Should we allow them to come to this land or by supporting this law to prevent tycoons from coming to this, and the legacy of Bogdan Dungerski, a great historical figure in the history of Serbia and Vojvodina, gets one whom he has promised, so the Mother of Serbia. It's the second part of the story, it's the righting of another injustice and the return of land to those who owned it. The third thing that's very important to me is whether this law in the first article says that foreigners can't be owners or natural or legal persons can't buy land. So, let's discuss it and let the public be aware, to make it clear if this law is doing it, and I say and we all claim on this side that this law makes it possible. Let me just use one sentence to look at the loans. Don't forget for a moment that 55,000 people got loans. It's a big deal and we can talk about it. Open the subject freely. I'll just tell you this, now I'm going to Obrenovac, where a delegation from Norway is coming, today the theme is land for two acres of greenhouses for the Agricultural School in Obrenovac, which Dragan Marković, at the Termoelectrica, is the current director, not to give to the Agricultural School, which is state property. In the municipality we are all looking forward to, because just by adopting this law we will be able, in agreement with the Ministry, to enable the Agricultural School to provide these two hectares and to donorly raise two greenhouses where children will learn how to deal with horticulture, vegetable and other production in these facilities. So let's talk about the subject, and the personal animosities I understand, the day-to-day political events have taken us in that direction and I suggest that we turn away from that topic and make the best of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27690	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Arsen Kurjački, authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27691	Dear Madam Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, dear colleagues, we have been welcomed to finally discuss this very important law regarding our agrarian. We can, of course, talk about whether it might have happened sooner, whether it should have been before, but surely it's always much better when something comes, than talking about why it didn't come. We can also talk about whether it was supposed to be 1992 or 1996 to be a country, so if we didn't have these discussions and problems, there wouldn't be these privatisations, but it's not worth talking about and complaining about. It is enough to say that since 1994, this law has been conceived as such, that there has been a big debate, because this law offers a lot of newspapers, a lot of new things that have not been in legal traffic with us, and, of course, it has caused a lot of discussion, a lot of fierce polemics, and then it has been extended until today when it entered the congregation procedure. I don't think it's a drawback, because, according to that people's "three times measure, one cut," I think it's a good thing that different opinions have been heard, because we who have been following the law we know that there have been certain changes in that law, in the bill and draft law, which is, of course, good. Like any law and this one has several divisions, and one is talking about basic legal institutes, the agricultural land is defined, the processing, the commissioning, etc. That's not what I'd be talking about. I will refer briefly to a newspaper that appeared in this law, which is a agricultural basis. Agricultural bases are conceived so that they are understood and experienced as planning documents that define all measures of regulation, protection, use of agricultural land. The newspaper is that we have three levels of agricultural grounds. One basic is the agricultural foundation of the Republic and adopts it and brings the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, for autonomous provinces, we have agricultural grounds for the province, which the congregation brings. However, there is an amendment to do so in a more executive manner, and we will see whether that amendment will be adopted. Of course, what is most important, these are the agricultural foundations of local self - administrations that bring local self - government congregations. It has to be said, since there have been various objections to this perceived view of agricultural grounds, that they must be mutually harmonised and that they all stem from a republican basis. Of course, for the implementation of all these bases, the annual programmes under which they are implemented are developed. What controversy was there about this member? It was primarily about whether local self-government units were capable of defining local land policy in their environments, whether decentralisation in this area of agrarian policy was necessary. Decisions were offered in the sense that decisions on the construction of the base of the municipality were taken by the agricultural land administration and on the basis of a proposal from the competent authority of the municipality. It is a vision that exists in neighbouring Hungary where there is an institution for state land, so-called land. The NFA institution; among other things, it draws up a plan to use the lease of state land, determines the amount of the lease on an annual basis and all of this is subject to the verification of the Minister of Agriculture. According to that settlement, the municipality has no right to adopt its own foundations. However, our government has followed its pre-election promise that decentralisation of government will descend in every sphere of life, and this is one of the first indicators that agrarian goes with decentralisation, thus transferring powers and rights to local self-government. The Department on the Protection of Agricultural Land has more than one measure, and I'm just going to point out some. For example, the ban on the release and disposal of dangerous and harmful substances – it has been defined that harmful substances that damage the structure of the land and affect the land and water streams cannot be released. We of the DSS have intervened with the amendment not to appreciate the extent of the harmfulness, but to prohibit any harmful matter and not to release it. The Ministry has respected that, so that determination will go. So every drop is forbidden. Then, we have specifics on soil fertility control and the amount of ingested mineral fertilisers and pesticides. These are some things that, unfortunately, have not been more massively applied to us so far, but the EU requires that we know exactly what is being thrown into the land in terms of artificial fertilisers, in terms of pesticides, and we cannot escape from that if we think we are going further. What's very important is that we establish records of what's been done, so we don't have to control every year if we have a clear and clean record. Now it's just a matter of getting used to that we have to do both with a pen and paper. Then, we have provisions on the ban on the use of farmland for non-agricultural purposes; then, on the change in the purpose of farmland, where it is clearly defined when that change can be made, whether it goes on for a certain time, on an indefinite and percentage fee of the market value of land. We also land here at the local level, where it is said that obligations and the level of compensation for change of purpose are determined by the municipal administration, up to 60% for the republican budget and 40% for the local budget. Why does this matter? For the simple reason that in this way we motivate local self-government to do much better in protecting agricultural land and to control much more up-to-date the change in the purpose of farmland, because it will increase its budget revenues in this way. A very important measure of protection of agricultural land is the ban on depletion of parcels. Serbia's big problem is a small, messy property. These provisions regulate all of this, i.e. that parcels under half a hectare can not be covered, and those land previously decorated by a combination under one hectare. Provisions on Polish damage are also detailed, and it is said, of course, that the ban on the destruction of crops, seedlings, machinery and so on, bans the burning of organic remains after harvesting. So, most of the topics in warfare, that is, in every law, there is this provision, and we are witnessing that very little or no respect. The problem is, because we don't have a stock fund, our stock fund, which by nature, has been wasting organic remains, and the second is that we don't have heavy machines that finely chop up plant residues. All those involved in warfare know that plant remains cause major problems in the process. The peasants, on the one hand, have no heavy machinery, and on the other hand, have no cattle to consume and plant residues and come up with the only solution, to burn these remains, and then we are in trouble, because we are destroying microflora and fauna at 15-20 cm of the most fertile part of the land; we are not burning the land with organic residues; we are not talking, which is the thing that bothers us the most, about the damages that come from burning and everything else, etc. It is again regulated here that all these measures are prescribed by the local self-government unit. We remember, we who used to work in the administration, when the state was much more decentralised, that the municipalities had Polish guards or, as we call it, subsidized. It was an extremely good protection in the Ataris, because now we're in a situation where no one cares about Polish damage. The police keep traffic, the farmers don't exist, and simply, the inspection can't physically get around everything and there are big problems. We hope that with these measures and these resources that remain for local self-government, all our producers will relive those agricultural services and that all our producers, both large and small, will have adequate protection. A provision banning nomadic sheep pasture is also a very important provision, especially in Vojvodina, where there was once a law banning nomadic sheep pasture. By cutting down this country and detaching BiH, the problem has been reduced, unfortunately, because of the state, and fortunately that the problem has been reduced, but there are still nomads that cross hundreds and hundreds of sheep and tramples of land, crossing the planted fields, avoiding these provisions by no longer being treated as nomads, reporting that citizens are the municipalities where they are and thus abuse their position. In collaboration with the Ministry, we were able to change that provision, and it says that each pasture is forbidden, not just nomadic. Of course, there is protection of agricultural land from frost, city, fire, it is also very important, and units of local self-government prescribe these measures themselves. Here we have one chill, because it is not regulated how we will finance all these measures, so we are afraid that those small municipalities that do not have a lot of resources will not have adequate protection, especially from the city or from some other disasters, we are afraid that there will be – how much money so much music, but I believe that through some regulations it will be further regulated and that they will all be placed in an equal position. The data suggests that central Serbia has an average possession of 2.5 hectares per five parcels; Vojvodina is slightly better – 3.2 hectares per three parcels. The landlady who handles more than 10 hectares is only 5.5%. For example, in order to compare, the percentage of landlocks with more than 10 hectares in Europe, say Belgium, Denmark, France, Great Britain, not to count further, ranges between 50 and 80%. It can also be done planically and apply both knowledge and science. There's no progress on the small plots. One reason is that there is no law on inheritance, where the right to inherit agricultural land would be limited to only one successor involved in agricultural production. It may seem a bit like a heresy, but such legal provisions exist in certain EU countries and have proved to be very useful, there are mechanisms that other successors are being compensated, and the other owners remain in full. We simply have a small unsettled property, no agrotechnics or machinery can be applied. That's why we have the demotivism of people who deal exclusively with agriculture; and then we have a mass of so-called "pegorative"s, which are constantly in the gap between the city and the village, between the field and the business and do not give an adequate result of their work on either job or business. The commission is, in that sense, the most important and complex measure to be implemented in Serbia over and over again, and it is well defined here, but what leaves little weight is the issue of funding. The commission is an expensive and complex job and the question is how many small municipalities will be able to finance these transactions. That is why it is necessary for a further period in the budget items to be separated and a point for the promotion of the compromise, in order to really encourage these measures, because that is what can lead to the improvement of our agrarian. The second institute is a voluntary land grouping. For the first time, the minister said, has been introduced into legal frameworks with us, and is otherwise known in EU countries. A very good measure, and if our farmers get it right, it's going to be one of the ways to get the property together and get to the most rational processing. It is defined here that this is done on a proposal of at least 10 landowners, and that the decision is made again by the assembly of the municipality, local self-government, which is very important again, because these people know best how it should be done. It is stimulated by the state to exempt all records and actions in this process from paying administrative fees and so-called traffic on absolute rights, i.e. all tax burdens are removed from these activities, all in order to stimulate the accumulation and increase of property. Melioration is also one of the measures. What has caused a lot of controversy, as some predecessors have said, and most of all, all the discussions, mostly, have come down to this, is the question of the use of agricultural land – the first land in general, and then the most to the state land. Some revolutionaryness; it's not revolutionaryism, we're going back to what used to be, which is that agricultural land is a natural wealth and good of general interest. It's been forgotten all these years. Regardless of the structure of ownership, simply, such as forests, water, and agricultural land is a national treasure and good of general interest. Therefore, it cannot be an absolute object of one’s will or desire to be used in one way or another. It is therefore also regulated by this law that the owner, i.e. the user, is obliged to regularly process this land and act as a good host. Of course, and it's more detailed, I wouldn't be hanging on to it right now. It is worth pointing out that precisely because such a provision exists that land which has not been processed in one season, which is apparently left, can be subtracted and leased to any natural person for up to three years. We need to be aware that there is a lot of raw land in Serbia. According to some estimates, between 200 and 400,000 hectares of land are conducted as unprocessed or inadequately processed. The comparisons work, and because of this turret and the noise around the state land that has risen, according to estimates, the state land is about 350 - 380,000, and currently only 270,000 are recorded; we have unprocessed or inadequately processed, by estimates, from 200 to 400,000. So it's a big problem in Serbia and therefore this measure is extremely good. Where we have some heirs who have been on trial for years and who will work the country, that country remains unworked, or we have people who are abroad, so they don't care what happens to their land, and they won't give anyone else, or simply the ageing non-agricultural land, they're all users, consummations of this law. On a proposal from local self-government, local self-government decisions, which are best seen, will be taken away, leased to users and will compensate the owners at the level of the rent. I have to say, we had a lot of provisions earlier that were very rigorous about land treatment. For example, I have worked as a farm inspector for years, and hundreds of criminal charges have been written only because by December 31st of the year, deep plowing has not been carried out. But there have been wars, sanctions, agriculture has been a social shock all these years, all this has been lost. If we want to raise the agrarian to one jealous level again, and the agrarian is recovering, then we must also rule as the profession and science prescribes and how all developed countries and implement. As I said, the biggest controversy in the public debate has led to the use of state-owned agricultural land. What's so new that's caused so much waves in public? The fact that this law provides for agricultural land in state property to be available and managed by the State through the Ministry. So, there are no more agricultural combinations, cooperatives, various institutions that are unhindered by state land. State land is available and managed by the State through the Ministry, and as prescribed by this law. Therefore, state land is required to be used under the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land brought by the competent authority in the local self-government unit. It's already been said how many millions of acres of farmland we have here, how much state land, but in order to successfully manage this natural resource, we need to determine exactly what the areas are, to solve property-legal relations, to do a housing cadcade, to do an information system on agricultural land, to simply distinguish what a state-owned country is, what is cooperative and what is private. There's a lot more to be done in order to properly manage this resource. This law is trying to fix it and it's the first and best steps that will go. So, we're under the law of restitution, the law of cooperatives. We can say with pride that many governments since 2000 have promised that vomiting and denationalization will occur. This government has come out and we have recently passed the Law on the Return of Property to Churches, we have passed the Law on the Record of Unlawful Dispossessed Assets. Let us be sure that this government will also come out very quickly with a law on denationalisation, which will simply accumulate all these irregularities so far. Until that happens, in order to put some order in the management and use of state land, we must move on with these measures. In the second part of the exhibition, they will be referred to in a way of using and managing state land.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27692	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Before we continue the discussion in principle: 1. The resignation of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. You have received a report from the Administrative Board on the fact that the Republic of Montenegro has exercised the law of Article 60(2). The Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and on 3 June 2006 decided to step out of the state union, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on point 1 of the 2nd indent. Decisions on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Article 2. Law implementing Amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia and C. Gore and Article 19(2). The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly finds the resignation of MPs in the SCG Assembly. According to the first indent, point 2 is replaced by the following: Decisions on the obligations of the national authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as a successor of the SCG State Community, Article 2. Law implementing Amendments I and II of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and Article 19(2). Law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, National Assembly, on the proposal of the Administrative Committee, notes that on 3 June 2006 the term of office of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly ended: Alekić Bojani, Aleksic Miroslav, Badjević Vlasmir, Bajatović Dusan, Barac Milunu, Belić Branislav, Božić Tomislav, Bozalo Dragan, Bulajić Goran, Veljković Miroljub, Vuković Jadranka, Vučurović Božidar, Gađanski Borislav, Gajić Tomislav, Gojkov Slobodan, Gojković Maja, Gojković Majić Maja, Grujić Žažanović, Žaljanović, Duljić Žaljanović, Dulić Žalić Toplica, Djurić-Dejanović Slavic, Djuković Slavić Slavić, Đanić Đar, Djukić Đorđ, Djukić Đoržović Đorđ, Žrđ, Žržović Sržović, Žrbović Srb, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbović, Žrbić, Žrić, Žrbić, Žrbić, Žirić, Žrbić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Žalić, Žalić, Žrvić, Žrbić, Žrić, Žrbić, Žrvić, Žalić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrbić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žrić, Žrić, Žalić, Žrić, Žalić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žvić, Žvić, Žrić, Žrić, Žvić, Žrić, Žvić, Drag, 2. You have received a report from the Administrative Committee on the fact that the Republic of Montenegro has exercised its right under Article 60(2). The Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and on 3 June 2006 decided to step out of the state union, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on point 1 of the 2nd indent. Decisions on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in fulfilling the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Regulation on the position of individual institutions of the former Serbia-Montenegro and the Office of the Council of Ministers, recognises the termination of office of judges of the Serbia-Montenegro Court elected from the Republic of Serbia, and this: - Slobodan Perovic, the President of the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro, - Ljubomiru Popovic, Judge of the Court of Serbia-Montenegro, - Katarini Manojlovic - Andric, Judge of the SCG Court. In accordance with point 1 of the first indent 2. Decisions on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the authority of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the regulation on the position of individual institutions of the former Serbia-Montenegro and the Office of the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that on 3 June 2006, Serbia-Montenegro's judges were elected from the Republic of Serbia, and that: - Slobodan Perovic, the president of the Serbia-Montenegro Court, - Ljubomiru Popovic, the judge of Serbia-Montenegro, - Katarina Manojlović - Andric, Judge of the SCG Court of Justice. 3. You have received a report from the Administrative Committee on the fact that the Republic of Montenegro has used the law laid down in Article 60(2). The Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and on 3 June 2006 decided to step out of the state union, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on point 1 of the 2nd indent. Decisions on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the authority of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Regulation on the position of individual institutions of the former Serbia-Montenegro and the Office of the Council of Ministers, notes the termination of the post of Nina Backovic, deputy general secretary of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. In accordance with point 1 of the first indent 2. Decisions on the obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the authority of the Republic of Serbia as followers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Regulation on the position of certain institutions of the former Serbia-Montenegro and the Office of the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that Nini Backovic, deputy general secretary of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, ceased on June 3rd 2006. We're moving on to a debate in principle. The first was Dr. Živorad Smiljanic SPS. Get Gordana Pop-Lazic SRS ready. Here you go, Mr. Smiley.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27693	Dear MPs, representatives of the government and the minister, I just want to point out a few things about this agricultural land law. In the post of SPS MPs a year ago, I suggested that we pass a law on agricultural land and that we socialists write it, although there was support in the parliamentary group, it was said that it would come quickly, but unfortunately, the month per month and it was almost a year and only now did we welcome it. My wish was for us to simply (not to write it myself, because I don't understand it) rewrite the Slovenian law, which the Croats later accepted and passed. Namely, what did they do? They did so back in 1991, when there was a change in structure: all the social countries turned into state and immediately made it impossible for any tycoon to buy the social land. Otherwise, you know, and I want to tell the citizens what a social country really is. The social land is the land combined, or workers bought and became owners for years. So, we passed a law that basically sold the land that belonged to these workers to them and preserved the state. Slovenians went even further; they kept it. I don't like them, given everything they've done to ours, but we've been able to rewrite a lot of them and we shouldn't have added anything. The Slovenians, when they turned socialist into state-owned, gave the country a direct contract for up to 30 years, and only for state-run bids. Practically, they protected their combineds. What did the Hungarians do? The Hungarians, too in the beginning, until they were able, passed the law that everything was free, everything for sale, and they opened the borders and then the Austrians started buying them land. When the Hungarians realized that they would become bureaucrats again with the Krauts, they passed the Law ban on selling land to foreigners, as they were destroyed at the beginning of agricultural production. They then, practically, because they don't have a social country, the state country has preserved and given and helped the combineds that have been destroyed. This combination big to Austria, Menzo Hedjes, Babolna and Better, those were the biggest combinations that failed, they helped them to save both production and reprolance. We want to practically... And the Croats signed all this, with both Slovenians and Croats giving the country 50% to local self-government. I also spoke with the minister in our parliamentary group, and I am only interested in these two members, a member of 71, who said that our country will not be sold until the restitution comes. We don't think it's going to take 10 years for the country to restitution or return, or I don't know how many years, it can be done very quickly if it wants to. It is stipulated in the law that a state country can still be sold, but here in the law is regulated so that the sale decision is made by the Ministry and all revenue goes to the budget. It doesn't make sense. At least 50% should remain local self-government, not everything in the budget, because both Slovenians and Croats have done so, that half go to local self-government, and half go to that budget, they say. What's he worried about and why we're afraid it'll happen when we're in Article 63? Article 71, I said that if the time of sale comes, we should share at least half of it: local self-government and budget, because only the government decides. This article 63 is exactly what we are afraid of, and what is a wish... At least the minister said several times that the desire is that when we rent the land local self-government can rent the country to a peasant, a paor or a small producer, to give it priority. You know what's gonna happen here? It is impossible when a poor peasant shows up at a bid to bid with one Miskovic. He will offer a much higher price and that Miskovic will rent. The little peasant won't be able to. The agricultural combinations that have survived have survived the war, sanctions and everything else; now we should help them, give them priority when it comes to renting, get them up to stand on their feet and sell them, and the sale must be done by the end of 2007, so they don't buy them for nothing. What can happen? The agricultural combinations that survived have a dozen, and there are the most interesting PKK and Vienna. What's gonna happen here? Since there are 14,000 hectares of the country in Vienna, 11,000 is the state, when 11,000 hectares now appear on auction, Miskovic and PIC "Becej" appear, Miskovic will offer a far higher price at the bidding and will take 11,000 hectares of the country, because it is richer, stronger. The agricultural combination survived both war and sanctions and was preserved, invested around 14 million in Flor for vegetable processing, 600,000 euros invested in machinery. He needs us to give him time to take a breath and get ready for production. I'm telling you, this will achieve the opposite effect. That's why the Executive Council of Vojvodina gave a similar amendment to which I insisted that it go in two circles: that the Ministry assess what the economic price per hectare is, to offer the peasant to buy the land at that price, and the agricultural combination, so if they give up, then in the second round to go auction and who made the highest bid. This is how the highest bids will be offered by newly combined tycoons, because they are rich. What are we afraid of? How did the apathic combination go, which was the best? He was sold to Miskovic and now of 360 workers, 260 received severance; there is now a very difficult situation, because there is no idea how many people will stay to work. It was not necessary to sell, because on the tender committee, the representative of the local self-government was not, and they also said he would not come; unfortunately, they went, secured the quorum, the voice of the president of the tender commission ruled and was sold. If the local self-government was respected, it was not necessary to make a decision on the sale, it should have waited. If I'd known that was going to happen, I could have taken this guy who operated on his knee, taken out of the sanity home, and taken it to the tender board on the stretchers, but not to vote to sell, because we have a bad experience. Miskovic bought a commercial company in Apatino, 240 employees, sold everything, now has three employees; he earned a resale of the store, paid 26 million, and stockpiles in the warehouse were for 42 million. Now the same happens with this combination of ours, where 200 people have already received severance. It is very important for us in local self-government to hire as many workers as possible, because these 200 workers are already my problem, I speak for local self-government; they are people who are left without a job and are looking for a job. That's why we socialists can't support any law that will allow thousands of workers to be back... I'm saying if this law goes through, and we don't give priority to the peasants and the combineds, they're sure to buy them tycoons. What are they doing? They're not interested in the reproductive chain. It's the best proof of what Matijević did. It was logical that when he bought the combination, he would hold cows and heroes. However, when he bought "Nosdan", he destroyed it all, took only five tractors "John Dir", hired five-six tractors, they process it and he has huge profits from it. He doesn't care about hiring people and doing cattle, because it costs a lot. That's what Miskovic will do, and he'll probably wait for a better time for the country to resell. Unfortunately, I was terrible against foreigners buying anything, but it turns out that when foreigners buy, they have a much more honest relationship with workers than these tycoons of ours. They're acting like feudals. Therefore, we are in favour of this amendment, to give priority to the lease, but at some state price, the real one, determined by the Ministry, the peasants and the existing combinations that normally make up the reprocealing. Because when the bidding comes, they're gonna make a bigger offer to the tycoon and we don't have a chance to give the peasant a chance, not even a combination. If 11,000 hectares buys Miskovic, there are 2,500 workers left to live at 3,000 hectares, there is finished and the reprodant is destroyed, and when it is destroyed, then in the second act tycoon will buy it, because first it will destroy it in this first act, it will rent the country and risk giving more money. But as soon as they're leased, the combination collapses, collapses, can't be held at 3,000, but can be at 14,000 acres, as it is so far. So I ask the Minister for this amendment, or this duchy, to go on two acts – first to be given at the price the Ministry thinks is the economic peasant and the agricultural combinations that make up the reprolan, and in the second act that the auction goes, who gives the most if they leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27694	Thank you. Minister Ivana Dulic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to explain that it is the 64th that makes it impossible for those who bought, or the combinations that are just about to be sold, that someone is using the country and coming to the country in a very cheap way. So if you were to sell PIC "Becay", with 2,000 acres of land that is social capital and 12,000 hectares that are state-owned, and to advance at the price set by the Ministry, you would come into a situation so that one or two people could compete for that combination, perhaps just one of those you mentioned. I can't even think about the PKK. If you gave someone 20 years in advance 25,000 hectares of state country, 7,000 cows, 2 hectares of "drill" plastics, which alone cost five million euros, for such an offer, only one or no man can compete for such a large complex in Serbia. That's why we, as president of the Apatin municipality, are giving you state-owned land; you know best what's best for Apatin and you will make such pre-tender conditions that you can create a program that is in the interest of the Apatin municipality. So someone who would take the PKK, the first thing would probably be to sell 5,000 that he actually bought at market price, and then for the next years to use, happy and satisfied, 20,000 hectares on non-market terms. Both companies most often mentioned have already made decisions on privatisation. I completely agree with you, our agriculture would have been in a much better situation if we had done the same thing as the Slovenians and the Croats, if we had translated all the social countries in time into state in 1992.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27696	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Dragan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, given that the debate is in principle and that a large number of SRS MPs want to comment on this law. As someone who doesn't understand much about agriculture, but who can understand, on the basis of their legal knowledge, what the purpose of this law is, I will start from its end, from the transitional and final provisions of Articles 94 to 63, to point to some of the illogical and what this law is really about. When we come to the discussion of details, a member per member, we will already give you examples of practices and opportunities that will arise under this law, which will certainly be harmful. I consider this law harmful, first of all, because it is aimed at total destruction of large systems. You mentioned both the PKK and the PIC "Becay" and similar to them earlier, although, truth to the soul, it is not by chance that the president of the PKB, who has now entered the privatisation, Miroslav Malesevic, who was the assistant minister of Vitosevic. So, you've got yourself a good schedule before this law comes into force, and when it does, what's it gonna look like? So how does this compromise this law of large systems? The PKK already has a privatisation tender. There are 22,000 acres of land; somewhere between 16,000 and 17,000 is state property. That land will be leased. The PKK cannot borrow itself, it is not foreseen by this bill. It will be difficult to find someone who will privatize the PKK on condition that it can be leased to someone else. So you're lowering the price of the PKK, and he's going into privatisation. Secondly, the PKK has 6,000 cattle. How is it projected how many PKK cattle will have? I guess based on the surface of the land he's using. So there will be no more 6,000 cattle. That's how you destroy livestock production. I'm talking about the PKK, but there's a lot of them. So we won't have meat or milk, and obviously we won't have any other cattle or human food. It's very dangerous what you're doing. In article 94, you say: "On the day of the entry into force of this law, the agricultural land in state property is transferred to the management of the ministry, until the decision to rent the land is made. The legal person who had the right to use agricultural land on the day of entry into force of this law, for example, that is the PKK, registered so in the land books, "in the state property, this right ends on the day of expiry of a given contract on the use of that land"; neither was the contract, nor was there a deadline, they are entered as users; therefore the point stands here, so you continue: "on the day of the decision to rent that land... ". So, since the state is doing it, you will now conclude the contract, because the Ministry is closing the contract. Let this go – local self-government will decide. She puts out a tender and that, and you conclude after the contract, you split 60-40; whether it has to be, that's the question. So far, no one has defended local self-government from renting agricultural land, if it's registered in land books as a user. No one was defending. It was, uh, the entire amount of rent, her income. So you don't give anything to local self-government. "The legal entity of the 2nd term of the member is required to transfer the agricultural land in the state property to the state ministry within 15 days of the day of the termination of the right of use of the right of use. "The law enters into force eight days after its adoption. You will immediately take those 16,000 - 17,000 acres of land to the PKK. And what have we done? Nothing. Secondly, renting is also very dangerous if you're going to defecate the plot. I'll give you an example of the Institute of Corn, which you don't like, so you'll never come when you're called there. On "Day Field" comes the entire diplomatic crust, their associates from Asia, Africa, all over Europe, but there is no minister because she heard that I would come there, as you are not at the opening of the Agriculture Fair because you know that Maja Gojkovic will come. So much for your "love" for agriculture and for everyone else you should respect, because you're in some position. You know what seeding means. You should know, and you have seven assistants, now you've received some 11 - 13 experts, very young, I guess you need even more knowledge about you, all of you from G17, so if you don't know, they probably know. At 300 meters from the plot where crops are to be sown as to represent a base for the production of seed products, no other culture should be planted, like corn. How are you gonna stop it? When you fold it and rent it, a few of them can be tenants, you have a large area of land, say the Institute of Corn; when there's a cross, you've ruined their production. It's like doing it on purpose. He's not the only one at the Corn Institute, and you've got this one in Novi Sad. They're companies that have world references, they're huge exporters. It seems to me that someone wants to completely destroy it, not just that large agricultural production, the institutes that are also profitable, which are large exporters, without talking about small good and peasants. It's as if you're doing everything you can to destroy them, and it's already being calculated in public that you're preparing a pioneer to come for them. You don't need a reference Institute for Corn, and you don't need this newly-sad. You have some arrangements with Pioneer. He should take their place and market, which is not small. It's not just our market, it's the world market, where our institutes have already broken through and where they've been fighting both the Germans and everyone else for years. I don't want to remind you of your failures, such as modified soy or sunflower, but don't forget that the Swiss Syngenta company got a certificate for that sunflower within one day, and then, when our peasants planted, only 20% of them came through. The question is who gave consent, how and why. We have in Novi Sad, we have in Zemun Field Laboratory, and now it's possible to establish and private, which is not good, and the national laboratory, we all know that, you want to move to Subotica and prepare yourself there for the director, because you know you can't survive long in this function. Remember who will be the next director of that institution. If that's not the case, then I lied today. They think ahead, and for a few years, where they're going to function, they're going to set themselves up very nicely. I'll remind you of the marking of the herd. You took so many pictures of yourself marking the herd in Krgnaca, where you know by the tenth generation who are the ancestors of a beef. We don't know who our ancestors are, though you know, and the public heard it, but those in the Turtles didn't have to do it at all. If you'd made it to Homolj, I'd say hello, and I'd say, well done, now we've marked all the cattle, we know why, we're done. You took big money for that project, I mean the Ministry (if you're personal, I don't know, but how your people do, it's possible), and you didn't finish that job. The question is, why didn't you finish it? I don't want to talk about the subsidies of agricultural products. We'll talk about it in the discussion of details. Also, about the lease and what previous colleagues have mentioned – the possibility that only one or, as you say, no man buys it. They'll buy it, because it won't be a problem for agricultural land to be translated into building land. Then there'll be nothing else. I'm happy that the Bol factory was built in Zemun on the agricultural land of the Institute of Corn, but this government took this land to the Institute with a fee of only 45,000 dinars and Bol signed up as owner, although our laws do not allow it. Such greenfield investments have come well, but give equal conditions for both them and anyone else who would like to. That is why I criticise the process; otherwise, Bol is a successful factory, employs 70 people, and the largest in Southeast Europe for the production of canned packaging, but you should have allowed such conditions to someone else who wants to. So, whether this agricultural land stays agricultural or not, we'll see it, but we keep forgetting our little peasants, if there are more of them at all, but come only to Kosmay, that's 40 kilometers from Belgrade and you'll see empty villages. I don't believe this law, especially since you've given yourself five years and local self-government three years to bring development programs and some plans, will lead to some improvement. General action is needed, not only related to the Ministry of Agriculture, but also to all other ministries and governments should have one project to return to our villages primarily those who still have property, which can do so or how to keep those who are there. We know what they need, they need to live like all normal people and have roads, hospitals, mail, schools and everything. For the time being, and in particular, we're going to search everyone and bring you probably to tears, because they say you're not hard to get to tears. If I were you, believe me, I'd cry too.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27698	The word has Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27699	You know what, somebody's got to cry for you, too, 'cause it's terrible they can't cry after everything you've done. Our citizens know well, I am a member of a small but fine branch, if you've ever listened to duchy songs you know what it is. I am very proud to be a citizen of Vojvodina and Serbia. I just want to remind you of what was in Germany, that they kept quiet when they took the communists away, they kept quiet when they took the Jews, they kept quiet when they were taking the others, and I remind the citizens that when they came for us, they might not have anyone else to talk about. I'm glad she finally came to see the truth, which is that the SRS advocates that all the land belongs to the tycoons. It is precisely this law that will allow for the development of the village. It just leads to the land being able to reach good farmers. As for the terrible seed plan, we really have a terrible plan, which is to allow farmers to come to a good seed and to have the best possible income for that seed, to try to break up the monopolies. Only competition leads to progress and improvement. I'm not a minister who goes, opens, closes, paints, and I can take it as a criticism, but I really have a lot of work to do and I can't show up, and especially where someone from the SRS goes to work, so the picture is taken. As for the lab and where there will be a national laboratory, I can see that you are also completely uninformed, especially with regard to the use of state land in Zemun, at the Institute of Corn. It's probably gonna be a time when all of this will show: who turned agricultural land into construction land, who charged it, whose budget it was; it's a very interesting topic, on which the Ministry owns the data, but precisely because of the reputation of that institution, I'm not going to drag them through the mud.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27700	The replica was reported by Sasa Vitosevic, an authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, mentioning the party's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27701	I actually answered because the party was mentioned, not my name. I would like to use this right of replica to comment on the contrast expressed by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. At the end of the speech, it advocates small holdings, for farmers who have nothing to do, cannot process, villages are empty, and at the beginning of the exhibition, if you have followed well, the SRS speaker is against this way of using state agricultural land, or the way in which the state agricultural land will be leased and that everyone has equal access to that agricultural land, but is already claiming that it is a decree that the combinations, most of which are now, not to say, have failed, but are extremely difficult to operate and are completely unprofitable. I've heard the speaker talk about some people working there and stuff. Gentlemen, of course, all of us who are involved in politics in one way or another are committed to greater employment, but I'm asking the question to all of you and the public whether agriculture should continue to be a social category, to survive and to do as many people as possible, and it doesn't matter what kind of agriculture, whether they're profitable. I'm not into that kind of business. I argue very responsibly that agriculture is a business like any other business in this country, which should be lived fairly and earned; whether it is small farmers, agricultural landowners, whether it is legal persons or combinations, all should be equal and make fair profits. The right to tell you, that kind of approach deny the fact itself, if you look at the statistics, that 87% of the total agricultural land is privately owned. Now it is said here: "If the combines fail, there will be no people to eat, there will be no milk." Let's be reasonable and talk about the facts about all this. To tell you the truth, I'm not even surprised that you're against the transparent way of issuing agricultural land, but you're saying that by some decree the minister gives to an existing user or owner, and you're calling for institutes. I'm going to deny both. The first thing why you're against the tender: gentlemen, one of your officials is, while he was Secretary of the Zemun Municipality, that's exactly how, without any tender, by decree, he gave his father land to build 12 apartments and five business spaces. This is, of course, information published by the Public Business Office in Zemun. The second thing here is that the decree must give land to existing users because the institutes will fail, there will be nothing to process. It is this law that allows, and amendments have been accepted, that the ministry's representatives will say, to increase the surface area of a state country that can be given to scientific institutions, schools for use.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27702	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I have listened very carefully to the debate on this law from the beginning. Although I am on the list of speakers of the SRS and I patiently wait for my time to present a problem that is shaking up a forest municipality these days (it is a thief and a crime that took place in the privatisation of the Agricultural Combined in Topoli), I will discuss this later. Indeed, the dignity I have as a person, as an MP, does not allow me to continue following this course of the session without first warning you, Mr. Vice President, the minister who came without an elementary culture in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building in front of the national representatives, because if you look at a colleague of Vitosevic... Mr. Vitosevic, being deputy deputy, I don't know if you replaced Ksenija Milivojevic or Goran Paunovic, doesn't give you the right to not know the Rules of Procedure, when you go out as an authorised representative, and today is your first time that you are authorized to do something, and that you act like one. Article 101. The Rules of Procedure say, if you report to a replica, you must recognize yourself in the presentation, which you consider to be incorrect, previous speaker. You must specify the name, last name and function of the person you address. Before you were Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, vice-president of the Central Country Administration of the largest party in Serbia – the SRS, which has over 40% of voters in the electoral body. Otherwise, at this point, if the elections were to be held, you wouldn't be sitting there, but there would be at least 126 SRS MPs, and you on the postcard to see the Assembly, this short thing that you were as deputy deputy, and what you weren't, nor such ministers, nor anyone else, from G17 plus and other dwarfs on the political scene... Therefore, behave yourself, be nice, cultural, so when you go out and address it first and foremost smarter than you, such as Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, you must by your Business name, function, and remember it now – Gordana Pop-Lazic, vice-president of the Central Country Administration of the SRS, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27704	Mr. Machine, on what grounds? Here you go, according to what Mrs. Jovanovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given that the said Serbian Radical Party is also mentioned by Ms. Minister and Mr. Vitosevic, I would like to, for the sake of the public and for the sake of your present MPs, to say that if you listened carefully to Mr. Smiljanic from Apatin, he has submitted an amendment that wants to be resolved in a better, stronger and more transparent manner in relation to the current situation of our agriculture and our combination, so that there is no collapse and sale for small sums of this kind that have preserved agricultural production. Therefore, there is no need to make up the untruth that Mr Vitosevic brought here – that we have given it as an amendment. Of course, we support this amendment and we will support it when we vote, because we believe that such large systems with rounded production have to be preserved and cannot be given to comply with this law, whether through the granting of state-owned land to you, and there is a PIC "Becay", there are between 11 and 12 thousand hectares, and in the PKK over 20,000 hectares, because it is true here that what has been carried out, that this country will rent, regardless of what is covered here, local self-government is calling a public tender, it will decide, but the final court is bringing the Ministry... We have no confidence in this ministry and in the people who run this agriculture ministry and there is a legitimate concern that it can be alienated in an unfair way, i.e. to rent to someone, and then cattle production will collapse, which in Vienna represents 100,000 passengers a year, where there are about 2,000 and some cows, for 2,400 workers, or you have PIC "Becej", almost twice as many, about 3,400 workers, means a total of about 7,000 workers and can get to the beggar stick very quickly and easily. Mr. Smiljanic has just set an example of this kind of privatisation. So there's a company called Unity from Apatino, and the owner who bought the company fired 200 workers very quickly and led people to trouble. Therefore, we advocate that amendments that amend this bill are accepted, and we will also be ruthlessly criticising and bringing out here what is conceptually poorly set.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27706	The word has a folk MP Dragan Petrovic, G17 plus, and after him Milorad Krstin, SRS, then Mr. Masic will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27707	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, G17 plus supports this bill and will vote in voting day on the adoption of this law. Since the current law has been in place for 14 years and shortcomings have been observed, the proposed bill has been removed. Social and economic changes in our country require the adoption of such a law on agricultural land. The current law does not allow for the dynamic and efficient implementation of programmes and projects in the field of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land in Serbia. The proposed law improves existing solutions, in line with the current and future needs of the Serbian state, by accepting European norms and standards in the area of agriculture. The development of a law on agricultural land has been approached due to: the implementation of the Strategy for Agricultural Production; the alignment and harmonisation with EU rules; the establishment of a system of planning, protection, regulation and use of agricultural land through the adoption of the basics of the Serbian state, the basics of the autonomous province and the basis of the unit of local self-government; the introduction of a system of measures for the regulation of agricultural land in the process of co-operation, i.e. the creation of conditions for all agricultural affairs, i.e. all that will be done on those holdings; the introduction of an information system; land management in state property and inspection supervision. Under the draft law, the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. Serbia has a lot of countries, and over 4.2 million hectares is arable agricultural land. Agricultural land in state property has not yet been fully recorded, but has only been arranged to 270 thousand hectares so far. Agricultural businesses are currently losing the right to use land in state property, but there are a large number of companies and cooperatives in bankruptcy and are now run by the ministry. At this point, there are insufficient measures to protect agricultural land, as well as measures to improve the quality of agricultural land. It is therefore necessary to form a farm land administration. The Agricultural Land Administration will deal with the protection and regulation of land and will be responsible for the implementation of this law. Under this bill, agricultural land should not be used for non-agricultural purposes, except for the raising of forests and exploitation of mineral raw materials, and with the special agreement of the Ministry for raising family houses, for the construction of flood defence facilities, for the expansion of roads and for the raising of nurseryes. On agricultural land it is forbidden to burn remains after harvest, nomadic pasture, as well as the release of dangerous substances. Physical and legal persons are equated and will benefit under market conditions from land use in state property. This stimulates competition. The advantage of renting agricultural land on state property shall be natural, i.e. legal persons with built infrastructure, multi-annual plantings or land owners bordering that land, provided they accept the highest price offered. The right to repurchase is reserved by owners bordering the land, as well as owners and users of nearby parcels, as well as registered agricultural holdings. The lease of state agricultural land, with favourable loans from the state register, would be a measure that would contribute to the economic strengthening of the village. Farmers whose biggest problem is small land ownership and lack of financial resources to increase it would get the lease of a state-owned wind in the back and an opportunity to increase the competitiveness of their production, which cannot be on small plots. Applying this law will not cause additional costs to citizens and Serbia's economy. G17 Plus will vote for this law, and we invite you to vote in the voting day, because by applying this law our farmers will live better, earn more and make a better life in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27708	The People's Messenger Zoran Mašić has the word, and after him Arsen the Korjaski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27709	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me now a briefer review of the text of these two laws that we are discussing today, given that during the debate, as an authorised representative, I still touched this law a little bit. What's good in this law is we're going to apostrophe and out, and certainly what we don't think is right or not the best solution we're going to criticise. Let us start by planning protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, where agricultural grounds are actually planned, namely: the agricultural foundations of the Republic, which will be brought by the Government, the agricultural foundations of the province, which should be brought by the circuit assembly and the agricultural foundations of local self-government. We have already resented the preparation of this bill for a long time, and it is therefore incomprehensible that in the transitional and final provisions, it is planned for agricultural grounds, which are strategic ways to define exactly the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, to bring the agricultural grounds of the Republic within three years. Given the length of this law, it was logical that these agricultural foundations were the Ministry, i.e. The government is due to pass within a year, as it has been worked too long on the very proposal of this law. The agricultural grounds of the Republic should be based on autonomous province and local self-government, which should be brought within five years of the adoption of the agricultural base of the Republic. So, basically, it's going to take a long time to put into service this law and these essential things that apply to the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. True, it is said that until the agricultural base is adopted, the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land will be done on the basis of the annual programmes adopted under this law. I think, first of all, the period that was given to bring this document too long. I certainly won't be here to deal with how it is planned to adopt agricultural grounds, who will be authorised, although it could be criticised. This law provides that the agricultural base is to be produced by a company, i.e. a company, or another legal entity, registered to carry out agricultural activity, which has at least two employees. It is a bit strange for such important documents to be given to such legal entities, which have two high-school staff and a professional examination, and this is conditioned to be passed before a commission educated by the minister responsible for agricultural affairs. In any event, this agricultural base should be subject to expert control and given to public insight and then essentially be verified as a document. This law regulates the protection of agricultural land. It is certainly good and important to regulate the protection and agricultural land in the right way, and the water streams, and drains and waterways from hazardous and harmful substances, especially as we talk today about the organic production law, where for such production it is necessary that these natural resources, primarily land, be absolutely free of harmful substances. Otherwise, you can't talk about such production. What we resent in terms of regulation of this area is that this law is not regulated, but it will be a sublegal act, which institutions will deal with controlling or determining the presence of harmful substances in land and water, what they should meet, that it is regulated by law, and in this sense we have given one amendment. However, the ministry has defined that a sublegal act is closer to defining conditions that must be met by institutions that will be authorised to control the presence of harmful substances in the land and water. In view of these harmful substances, their specificity, primarily toxic metals, lead, live, cadmium, arsenic or various pesticides, and that is to say, herbicides, insecticides, etc., very specific chemical substances, we believe that those experts who conduct the tests must be highly educated, the institution must have quality equipment. These experts should also have scientific references to us, that they can competently give an opinion on the identified harmful substances and recommendations on how such land or water can possibly be used if harmful substances are identified. Unfortunately, the ministry did not accept the amendment, but explained that the sublaw would regulate it. To immediately refer to that part, Article 80, where 12 sublegal acts are planned to be supported by this bill. These 12 sublegal acts should be brought in within two years. So, we've waited two or three years for this law to come and now, to fully put into office this law, we have to wait another two years, so much is given to the Ministry to make these sublaws, and there's about 12. For us, this is inadmissible, quite unserious and irresponsible; we should have done what can be done parallelly, because, thank God, there are a lot of people in the Ministry of Agriculture, we hope professional and competent, who could work more versatilely. Furthermore, this law regulates the regulation of agricultural land, and this chapter and, in general, what is regulated, we support, above all, the cohesion, as one significant act of grouping agricultural land, because our agricultural land with small possessions and a total of this should be grouped in the right way. We also take the recommendation of voluntary land grouping with the consent of the owners who want it. Also, the organisation of agricultural land and the measures of the arrangements for both melioration and construction and maintenance of the irrigation and deforestation system, the recirculation of agricultural land, the milling of meadows and pastures, the conversion of unprocessed agricultural land into the processing and improvement of the quality of farmland, means, all of these are measures that we as representatives of the SRS support and essentially have no fundamental objections. On the contrary, we consider that to be well regulated. Where we disagree and where we place our biggest objections, this is the part relating to the use of agricultural land, although we accept certain things here, above all, the obligation of the owner, or the beneficiary of agricultural land, means what is regulated by Article 59 – that someone who owns or uses agricultural land has an obligation to process and apply all the measures and rules of the code of good agricultural practice and that it is used in accordance with the agricultural base unit of local self-government. To those agricultural producers, means owners or users of agricultural land, who do not process it, the Ministry of Administrative Procedure may even in some way, conditionally saying, subtract and lease up to three years to another agricultural producer. Normally, the land of which has thus been seized in the administrative procedure shall have a lease fee, with the refusal of those costs of the administrative procedure. So that's acceptable, we just don't know how it's going to be done in practice and what kind of otter it can cause; firstly, how the Ministry will find out, perhaps through agricultural inspectors, that someone isn't working. But in any case, the interest of the state and our people must be to process the farm land and to use it in an adequate way. That's why we support this. Furthermore, the availability and management of agricultural land – we believe that the land that is in state property should be available and managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the only thing that we are asking for the amendment to add Article 60a to suggest that some entities, primarily state institutions, which are agricultural schools, colleges, institutes, then criminal and jurisprudence homes, etc., have the right to manage, i.e. the use of agricultural land without compensation. The Ministry and the Government have conditionally accepted the amendment, to be an amendment to the Committee; I hope that on the Committee we will agree that the correction of this bill will and will be made, that these very state institutions can use the state country without compensation, because they are budgetary users and it would be unnecessary to pay the state rent for it. Furthermore, what we agree with is the lease of a state country, but not all the way it is regulated here for the members of 63, 64 and 65, because we believe that certain specificities must exist. Once again, I publicly declare that we support the SPS and Mr Smiljanic's amendment that the land currently owned by the combineds must be leased. So, it is indisputable that it should also be leased to agricultural combinations that manage with it, but not on market conditions, means not with the criteria of best paid offers, the highest prices, but that the Ministry of Agriculture determines one fair price of that state agricultural land and that these agricultural combinations are fully used, because that is the only way to preserve these agricultural combinations, preserve their agricultural production. These are, first of all, the great seed producers, seeds of plants. For such production, spatial insulation is necessary. It cannot be provided unless the country's planned lease or remaining with those agricultural producers. We had opportunities, though, at the local TV station, on Saturday and Sunday it was shown what the farm in Donji Bukovac near Valjev, a hero farm that cost 15 million marks, which was designed to load 8,000 heroes. It was precisely because of the unplanned alienation of the country that the farm was practically closed and destroyed, and it was a mockery, and it cost the country exactly these 15 million marks. In order for something like this to happen very quickly, and for these large combinations to be destroyed by breeding and livestock, I think we should seriously consider and accept this amendment that has been given, to establish a specific specificity for agricultural combinations. Also, when it comes to a contract for the lease of agricultural land in the state property, we proposed, again, on the basis of experiences and general social situation, that when the rental contract was concluded, the Ministry should take stronger guarantees than who rented the land so that it could settle those lease obligations. Unfortunately, the ministry did not accept the amendment and believes that what has been defined in several points in article 65 is quite enough and that it gives sufficient certainty that the tenant, meaning to the state, will settle the obligations in accordance with how this member is regulated. We felt that an additional attitude should be made to seek stronger guarantees for the payment of the lease. What we absolutely disagree with and what we oppose is the distribution of lease funds. The bill regulates 60% to be for the Republic of Serbia's budget and 40% of the local self-government budget, and we as a party are in that position. To a general surprise, by the reaction of MPs and the ruling majority, the minister as a representative of the government accepted on the Committee on Agriculture the amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly to split the funds from the lease of state agricultural land in proportion to 30% of the AP Vojvodina, 30% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 40% of the local self-government. We from the Serbian Radical Party believe that the AP Vojvodina should not have any original income and that there is no basis for having the right to do so, regardless of the land in the area of the AP Vojvodina, but rather should be the budgetary resources of the Republic of Serbia, and it is known that the Vojvodina budget is being formed and serviced. It is served from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why raise, and this in my view is pure rejuvenation, politically, primarily the autonomial option and the autonomists in the AP Vojvodina, and here I certainly count DS, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and G17 plus, although not in power, but also supports in some way the vote for everything that is in the circuit assembly. What we are also opposed to is the alienation of a state-owned agricultural land, because we believe that our country needs no ar of land to alienate, that it is a national good, national treasure, to which the state should be available and should lease and take a rent to go into the budget. Because this is where it was designed, according to the motionor's explanation, even over a billion dinars, to be collected very quickly from the leases of state agricultural land. I wonder why then alienate agricultural land, especially if it is viewed as Article 72, which regulates the right to buy agricultural land in the state property. It is absolutely evident here that the right of the buying championship is precisely those which are now, using the absence of this law and some other laws, have come to agricultural combinations, to agricultural land, because point 1) states that the right to buy agricultural land has the owner of a irrigation and disposal system that is in use, for many years so far, those who have ponds and other agricultural facilities on estranged agricultural land. So, it goes directly to these tycoons that we mentioned, that tomorrow they buy, no matter what is regulated here, that the government determines a public competition on the Ministry's proposal and the sale of the country will come into consideration when the restitution or return of the country to the owners of which it was taken away. If the Ministry of Agriculture wants to return the country to former owners as quickly as possible, then it should not have been regulated in transitional and final provisions, and the country can be leased for three years. When we proposed, as an amendment, to rent agricultural land from three to 20 years old, it was then explained that it would take agricultural land to return to the owners, and the proposer himself in Article 92 has just proposed that the land subject to restitution could be leased for up to three years. So it goes into contradiction. Finally, we oppose the establishment of a agricultural land administration, because we find it extremely unnecessary to increase the state and administrative administration in the ministries. For the establishment of this administration, the employment of 20 new workers in the ministry is planned, the establishment of this state should cost 70 million dinars, and the administration should manage state-owned agricultural land. He's got, according to the list, 270.000 acres. The restitution may return 100,000. So there will be 170,000 hectares left to be sold out very quickly if this law is passed, which is at point 1), the main job of the administration. Furthermore, the management shall carry out inspection and professional tasks. Inspectors do inspection and professional work, no need to do management. Inspectors may eventually be in some administrations. Further, it establishes and manages an information system on agricultural land; it allocates resources for the implementation of works and monitors the implementation of the annual protection programme; it achieves international co-operation; it monitors the development of and implementation of the agricultural base of the Republic. Some jobs are listed only to justify the establishment of such a para-state institution, as they will be within the Ministry. We are in the view that this part of the work on this land should be done by the Ministry, reorganised and these jobs covered by the existing workforce and experts working at the Ministry. Appreciateing the need for my other colleagues to say something about this law, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27710	The word is Arsen Kurjački, followed by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27711	In my first presentation, I cited several specifics of this law which, in a completely new way or in a more modern way, regulated many parts and needs in agrarian, which were completely marginalised because of the public debate that took place in a completely different direction, as my colleague Vitosevic said, and did not have the right commentary as it was on the land use clause in state property. The main thing about these particulars was the controversy, because for the first time we came up with new solutions on the use of agricultural land. The law regulates that agricultural land in state property is leased by public advertising. The decision to open a public ad and lease a lease shall be taken by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. These are the specifics that have caused a lot of controversy for all these years and a half and that have led to some changes in some of the solutions in the draft and bile debates. This is the final solution. However, there was a lot of controversy, and mostly these polemics, more or less, came down to ideological debates. Unfortunately, I found it inappropriate to make some statements from the ministry in some public debates that were as simple as some initial chapels that led these discussions in some unwanted direction. The media always abuses it a little bit and pre-names it. For example, an article in the Novi Sad daily "Dnevnik" says -- Serbia gets an agency for agricultural land, a pair of national fields in the arena. Then says one ministry official -- it will not be possible for a combination that now uses 5,000 hectares to call for a single tender to rent all these fields at once. The land complexes will be divided into blocks of 50, 100 or more hectares and the tender will have to go separately, so that everyone can compete. Monopoly in the fields no one will have. Normally, a statement like this stirs up passion, because people from different positions are looking at it. Then, in these discussions, two genders that mainly led the debate, not through the prism of the profession and the economy, but primarily through an ideological debate. One of them, for example, advocated that the state's combined relapses of the past, that the formations of the communist regime were created by the lawlessness of the communist government, by illegally taking away property and so on. Agricultural and industrial combinations have developed and survived to this day only thanks to the privileges of the state regime, so the instructions are: free investment of the state, favourable loans, write-offs of debt, the procurement of funds for labour and repromaterials, the privileges of buying-in and paying-out of agricultural products, and so on. These other defenders, who also had a keen discussion, claimed that agricultural combinations were the only ones who were not allowed to behave marketly for all these years, because they were always in the function of preserving social peace, unlike peasants who always followed their own interest, not the general interest; that the combineds were in the function of the development of the whole society and, therefore, had to adapt their own structure of sowing and production and all in the function of the processing industry, again to the general benefit of the whole society. These first pointed out that agrocombinates must be taken away by a state country, regardless of their further fate, that this is historic justice that must be served. What happens to them as economic operators, what happens to employees, that's not the problem of the present time. There was even a sign that such a rough way would be to speed up the agricultural land market. The others claimed that it was not time for such radical measures, that combinations must have a better position to privatise with the state country, that there must be a process of restitution, that they must be taken care primarily of the agrarian employees, and there are estimated to be more than 80,000 plus family members. They claimed that combines were the most valuable thing in the agrarian and that, with the state of property and state aid, they could still be the basis for the development of the entire society. It even went to this point that the state country must not be taken away from the combinations or in the process of restitution, but that other solutions must be sought, such as the system of action or the compensation of former owners by the state, and that the combined ones remain. In the Democratic Party of Serbia, we have always, and today-to-day, primarily taken care of state and general interests, we did not want to look at this issue through an ideological debate, but to face only arguments about how professions, such sciences, and to come up with some of the best solutions for the whole society, the whole people, and not just for some interesting groups that always lobby for their interests. Who was the MP in the previous term, who remembers, we insisted from this pay phone, when the Privatisation Act was passed, with Minister Vlahovic – what will happen to natural goods that are national goods and general good of general interest? Minister Vlahovic then committed himself in writing, assured us that the national goods will not be the subject of privatisation, and especially will not have agricultural land that has not yet been regulated into privatisation. Unfortunately, we're witnessing that that's not the case. It is an example of the Beikovna cement factory, which has been sold as a factory, and compared to that, the natural treasure, called lapora ore, is used uninterruptedly, as if it had been paid. Of course, the sale of social agricultural holdings prior to the country's return started and went on tirelessly. Unfortunately, this government has found this state. It just wasn't possible to go back. We had to look for solutions to keep going. We believe that the issue of using the state until the end of the restitution must be seen exclusively from the aspect of the profession and economy. Ideology should be left aside, historical justice or injustice may be solved by historians, and economists must solve what is best and most profitable for the state. We believe that state land must not be any marketing polygon for the pre-election performances of any political party. It's simply inadmissible, because it's something that's general national good. We need to know that, no matter how much agrarian we have fallen, how much we are dealing with semi-extensive production, agriculture with the processing industry makes and forms 40% of the country's gross social product. Agriculture is still the main pillar of the national economy. Anyone who doesn't believe remember what it was like to be a catastrophic drought, what it was like when we were born, how the whole economy lived, or how it went into the sun. Therefore, the Democratic Party of Serbia has advocated and now advocates that the accumulation of agricultural parcels is something that is inevitable, because it is a trend in developed agrarian countries. If we want to move to a camp of at least medium-developed, if not highly developed agricultural countries, we must have a large and large property that will be able to reject much better and much faster rational production. Therefore, agrosystems with large land ownership have many technological and economic benefits for more productive and profitable production. This is legality, and no one can slow it down, and this is how in livestock and plant production, and especially in strategically very important seed production. We can argue whether seeding is a strategic production or not, whether it's better to have import varieties or homemade, it's a matter of profession and it's not a place and time to discuss it from a congregation pay phone. We at the DSS feel that we must not knowingly destroy and devalue the huge social capital invested, and is invested in many livestock farms, in machinery stations, in gulf systems, processing facilities. They're designed on a specific base and without that base they can't function. These are some basic postulates from which we, as a party, began to make this law, and we wanted to make our contribution to this law in this way. But we need to know some other things, too, to be said in public, which is that many cooperatives, agricultural holdings, combined have failed all these years. They just stopped working. We have employees renting state land in them. All their activity has come down to betraying the state's land, sharing money with them. They're called some business entities. That can't be allowed anymore. We said it was a natural national treasure, so he won't be able to go anymore. But we have the other side of the medal, and those are still working successfully. How successful, it's a matter again for discussion, but the fact is that they survived in this difficult and difficult time. We must enable them to continue to work and produce until the privatisation process is completed, i.e. restitution. We cannot interfere with the mind, there have been talks here about two of our largest agricultural combinations – the PKK and Vienna, that only they produce seed goods sown between 600,000 and 700,000 ha across Serbia. It's a huge potential and it has to be taken care of. However, it must be said that, regardless of who it is, no one can use state land for free anymore, that everyone has to pay the rent to the state, and then these funds will return to the agrarian funds and accelerate the development of our agrarian. After all, so do other natural resources, such as forests, water. It's something we need to get used to. All those who have learned to use free state for all these 60 years, it is time for business philosophy to change. So, as time went by, at the initial stage, we advocated a system of centralistic availability to state countries, something similar to that mentioned here in Hungary, Slovenia. So, something that works in the countries of the European Union. These are countries that have been admitted into the European Union, this is one concept that is quite legitimate. At first, we advocated that system. But time passed, the privatisation of agricultural combinations continued by momentum and asked whether our position was correct in these changed circumstances, why this privatisation happened again, who made it possible, etc., but this is a topic for another time. We have come to the realization that we simply cannot have the same relationship with the remaining social combinations and some of the new owners, or, as modernly said now, to tycoons, who simply overnight, have become large owners and users of state land within a few years. We must clearly say, to be aware that these are people who have not come from the world of agrarians who have not acquired their wealth in agricultural production. They've won a fortune on some other business. Then the question arises why they invest in agriculture, buy agricultural land, if we all know very well that the low accumulation in agricultural production, that the degree of turnover of capital is slow and that it is difficult to reinvigorate in agriculture. For the simple reason – these people are waiting for some new time that will come very soon, hopefully, by approaching our country, the country gets at the price and their primary, if not the only, but the primary interest is to break up the country, sell and thus reach the funds in a very easy and fast way. So, we were born suspected that this centralist way of managing state land would not exactly coincide with the interest and will of local self-government, so that with our coalition partners from the ministry, from G17, we came up with various proposals in which we can solve this, so there was a suspicion that if local self-governments themselves were to own up to the point of view of local self-government owning state land, there was only a degree of corruption very pronounced, and it was very possible for abuse at local level. Finally, after all these discussions, all those years and a half, which I think have been used wisely, we have come to a compromise solution that is in this law, which is that the decision is made by local self-government with the consent of the Ministry. The advantage is that we have this double key and it will provide us with, on the one hand, the public of work, and on the other hand, the interest of the municipality and all its citizens primarily assess and articulate local self-government. We think it's a good solution, because people in the bar decide what's best for their environment. Whether there will be any abuses and pressures by the ministries, as someone tries to impute, remains to be seen. Formally and legally, it's how it's written and we think it's good. Those who don't trust local self-government must remind us that decentralisation means transferring power to people in a bar and we simply have to trust those people, they know what's best for them and how they're going to do it. As for the second part, the alienation of state land, there were also many polemics. Of course we're all a little skeptical of the possibility of selling state land. In an opening statement, the minister said the country's sales orders to foreign citizens were not in place. Therefore, foreign citizens cannot buy our country, and the sale itself within our own home space, there is a possibility, but it is so clear and decadent that it leaves no doubt, therefore, can be sold, but only after the denationalisation process. Therefore, there is no story that again someone will sell something other than the government's decision, not the Ministry, but the government's decision; so if the whole government is corrupt, if everyone thinks the government is not protecting the state and national interest, then so be it, we'll wait for another, more responsible government. Of course, it is also said in which cases – only in exceptional cases of pooling and for other social interests can a state country be sold. We have to say it's nothing new, there's been this opportunity so far, there's been no sale. Therefore, I am convinced that even this government will not sell the state land and that this fear does not exist. This law can be characterized as a compromise law that tries to reconcile the interests of several layers of society, which, of course, is not easy. We are overwhelmed by history, ideological disputes, and it is not easy to solve all injustices and step one step forward. The quality of this law is that it does not impose a finished solution and that is very good. It simply leaves people at the bar to self-evaluate what is best for their environment, to carry out and take care of all the measures they have established themselves. Therefore, we wish them happy and successful work on the welfare of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27712	We're finishing the morning part of the debate. Resume at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27713	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's 15.05 p.m., and we're continuing our afternoon work today's session. Let me immediately inform you both in the O.R. and those who are following through internal television to the MPs' clubs, please, Article 85. Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1 and 4, today we will only work until the end of the united principle debate on points that are now on the agenda, and tomorrow of 10 hours will continue with a principled search of the 9th item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government, therefore, a point that certainly concerns all of us. Thank you for understanding. We continue the debate in order of the reported. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Perić, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected farmers of Serbia, the constitutional basis for law-making is contained in Article 72(1) point 13. The member and those views are now positive for the European Union. How's that? The Ministry of Agriculture promised MEPs and citizens that the area would be regulated by more than 45 laws when it came to power. We also expected as a Committee on Agriculture to attend several sessions to ask for answers as to why this flow and this process should be stopped. Who is behind this suspension of this projected process of 45 and more laws? So far, three laws have been passed from this area and these two are on the agenda. Of these three, one is the Law on Fruit Material, which already has a lot of problems today, so we are told by the kalemari from the crusader region. Incentives are shared by Buraser technology and we know why and who. The distribution of credit went through known banks, it was the National Savings Bank and Delta Bank, and we asked on the Committee on several occasions to deliver a list of these credit users to see if a minimum obligation to the state and the people was respected. And that was always a taboo topic. The production of genetically modified plants has taken a visible place in our ministry, as the head of the production and the chief boss for it is the Minister. Our seminary is being destroyed; we have seen it today from the presentation of the Minister and from her exciting attitude towards this ministry. Her conscience isn't clear, because she's been assigned by various companies that aim to destroy our seeding and in Zemun, both in Novi Sad and beyond. I'm going to give an example of how the hop in Srem was destroyed, specifically in Erdewik, and now we as a state need to import all kinds of hops and hop products. As far as the imports of these heifers from the Netherlands are concerned, it is linked to these incentives, and we have received certain information on this, so that Mr. Vitosevic should not be making any brides. You make other programs, and these programs are for you. You're going to America for money, and you're sending our peasants to Churug to wait for money. As for your credibility in Srem, you're not as desirable and respected as you're talking about here today. That's what our peasants and patrons say. I'm saying this about the Minister of Agriculture. A public debate on this law – who has held a public debate for you when no peasants ask for anything in this country, but take from them in all fields and in all places? Is Zechariah Trnavcevic most important to you in the public debate system? It's not for us. Imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, this law proposes a group supported by 2.5% of the electoral body. And we, which supports more than 42%, are against this law. What does that mean and what does it lead to? You choose and define yourself in the next election. I hope that our constitution isn't so bad when it comes to this matter that's on the agenda, which is the law on agricultural land. I believe that this law on agricultural land must have been passed before all the laws proposed and projected by the Ministry of Agriculture. Why in the first place? Because this law could stop all the abuse of privatisation that took place today on agricultural land in Serbia. The process would be halted and the state would benefit more from individuals who today came in an easy and magical way to capital. What kind of capital is that? That capital is all around us, and that's the agricultural land that life means. This Europe has designed for us, and we, as a defiant of everything that they want to put into our system, accept and adopt, as if we know it, we want to, and as if we will get better. I mentioned the above constitutional basis; the constitutional basis is mostly used as needed, and this constitutional basis means that the Constitution is in order, and today it has already risen and great dust is being raised and that the future constitution is being adopted. The proposed law has so far been under processing in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 2000. The minister said that we (which we, I didn't understand, probably this parliament) should have passed the law in 1992. Probably would have been brought before, but some real facts have to be respected. We know that this law with all these proposed amendments is now in a phase that needs to be radically changed, this proposal is being proposed by the Proposer, but he is already in the beginning of the proposal facing a number of unspecified members and items in this law. There are a lot of amendments, with practical suggestions to improve this law. In this law, what will the agricultural land administration do when we know that these administrations are just a new bureaucratic apparatus that will aim to meet the quota of the ruling coalition that will employ 20 or 50 new people? These people are supposed to follow this law and direct 70 million dinars of budget funds that will serve their purpose. Give these 70 million dinars to an institute, college or some agricultural school to train and improve the level of knowledge, as well as that level of knowledge, according to this law and some other laws, is not according to European standards. Why am I talking about this level of knowledge? Because he points out that even when it comes to the proposal for a law on organic production and organic products submitted by the Government, we have done nothing so far, we have apparently not had certified companies and individuals who could follow this organic production. We Serbian radicals believe that not all European Union directives should be accepted for granted, nor are they quite expertly prepared to give us advice from this area that our professional people know well. This has asked me to say for the following reasons: our farmer today, listening to this Europe, is unable to perform even a simple reproduction on his property. This is where the legislator has to show creativity. Let me give you an example: two or three years ago, Europe offered us, specifically in Srem, snail farms. They all sat down, started to raise those farms by investing in the last penny, raising loans and selling real estate, to provide financial support for those farms. What eventually appeared to them as a result? They are all in parlogous and weed today, these same peasants and citizens are simply ashamed to say publicly that they were deceived and they wanted to be Europe. Now, this strategy is important, and it aims to illustrate in advance what will be the main product in Serbia, on geographical, orographic, hydrographic, pedological and other occasions, so that we don't have these foreign snails, that we pollute all of Serbia with this European foil, so that for the next 50-100 years, we become a nylon country where nothing but ambrosia grows. These bases at the level of the Republic must stop the abduction of farmland and farmland for residential, infrastructure areas. By reducing the fertile, god-given surfaces, we cut the branch on which we sit. This Europe conquers new fertile areas, and we are reducing, according to their directives. I'm afraid of these well-intentioned world arenas who want to make us a good consumer society that their agricultural products will consume. They're already here and they're offering us genetically modified products that we're using, and we don't know the consequences. That's where I expect the state, at the cost of any profit wishes, to stop and say – that's not our strategy. Our future will be a healthy country, healthy food, healthy people. That, in my opinion, is the strategy, which is not visible from this law. These days in Srem are the current gatherings where local self-government leaders go from village to village, specifically in cave municipality, and promote some special burn plants, i.e. dumps that are according to European standards. In Srem, which stretches geographically between the Danube River and the Sava River with a mild slope toward the Sava River, and Srem is a fertile farmland. Why is that? This Europe wants to create dumps and burn plants right on this fertile and grainy land. Let them be created and raised where geography, hydrography, pedology and flora and fauna allow, and not in such places. We are against such attitudes, even if they come from that Europe. If it were good, we wouldn't even get to that comment, they'd be doing it all right there on the spot, that is, in their Europe. Control of the fertility of farmland and the amount of mineral fertilisers and pesticides in farmland – this title above Article 21 of this Act tells us that no one thinks, nor suggests that organic manure or barn must be entered into the land. When will this frequency be regulated? The owner of the country has to respect that. The barn protects the structure of the land, creates fertile land, and you don't say a word in this law. I'm on the expert side that nobody said a word about it. The obligation had to be introduced into the law and the owner of the country must adhere to this legal principle to enter into the land at least once in 10 years, on the surfaces of the first, second and third classes, thus also encouraging livestock production that is related to agricultural land, and especially to watering areas. This material was supposed to be solved by Article 58, where it is said about improving the quality of farmland. As peasants in the past, we had no projects that were made, but we had quality and healthy products on a healthy and fertile land. The introduction of stables, green garbage and heating has always led to improvements in the quality of farmland. The commission is the grouping of agricultural land into larger complexes. It can be organised when such a decision is made locally. The part of Serbia's work will not be completed for long, and this is our goal in order for modern machinery to be ready for those surfaces. We can comment on the asphalt roads in our complexes individually. The country, paved roads and modern mechanisms with large working procedures, with the application of irrigation, is the goal of all advanced societies. That's the goal and Serbia, we won't think differently about it. In these commissions there were abuses where they were carried out by local powerful men who always grabbed better surfaces. The Serbian Radical Party opposes the sale or alienation of state agricultural land. The Minister of Agriculture provides for this possibility on small areas, i.e. certain cadastrian parcels that are allegedly to be sold will be sold. We believe that state agricultural land should never be alienated and sold. Someone said the state is not a good owner of the country, and this law will put the state's problem at the level of local self-government. Imagine if in some local government they come to power, for example, people who want to destroy this country; what will be their function, and how will they treat that country? It is known that more than half of the agricultural holdings are not registered in the register of agricultural holdings, and we, as the Serbian Radical Party, are struggling not to have some already designed discrimination on any basis, and it is related to this legal project. In Article 26, paragraph 1 after point 8), a new point is added: "The rise of artificial meadows and pastures on farmland in the sixth and seventh classes, as well as when the agricultural base or project of recycling found that this land would be more rationally used if converted into artificial meadows and pastures". Today, in the environment in which I live, which is the southern slope of Fruska up, which was once used for vineyards and orchards, the surfaces are overloaded because of the non-treatment into pruning and stewing, no one cares about it anymore, there are thousands of hectares of such areas. I believe that these laws must be settled in a positive way, which is that someone, or the state, has to provide 50 workers per hectare to bring these parlogs into practice. How do you think you can solve this when you teach these powers to local self-governments, and they can't even carry out the minimum tasks of jurisdiction given to them today. There have been comments here about these courts that there will be also courts, local self-government and everything else, and we know that in fact the courts in this system of today have produced such a steamed system of agriculture. And those squires were conditioned and they produced. This means that local self-government will have to provide 60,000 dinars per hectare to cultivate that area into grassland or farmland. Imagine some local self-government that has three or four thousand acres of such surfaces. It takes a lot of financial resources, and you're in no position to provide it. You solve it with a member of this 56th law, but only in principle what needs to be done on the basis of projects. That's not enough. Article 74 regulates the use of pastures. How do you plan to implement that area at the level of local self-government? There are agricultural advisory services. They are like agricultural stations at the level of certain local self-government and these agricultural stations today face major problems by system – we are not in power in that local self-government and there is no need for anything to happen. I'll give you a few examples: Senta's organisational unit has one security guard and she's got a job of abiding seed production, and there's someone in the current government in power; and in Kikinda, Ruma and some other radical municipalities these jobs are marginalized and they can't actually get these certificates and jobs. Why and what's that all about? This technology closes individual services, and this 1st member provides for land administrations and these administrations will likely be established on a party line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27715	Thank you, Mr. Služarevich. Just to let everyone know. So, first I ask the MPs of the SRS, I have well interpreted the request that instead of Milorad Krstin (I am talking about order) speak Dr Pai Momchilov, instead of Lazar Cavic Milorad Krstin, instead of Paja Momchilova Lazar Cavic. It's a change of order, so I understand that well. Now a replica, an authorised representative of the G17 plus Sasa Vitosevic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27716	Thank you. I've reported for breach of Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure. So, in his speech, the MP made an offensive statement, personally calling me an ignorant bride. It's so offensive to me that I don't think myself very young, so come on. But let's try, as you say, to explain to our farmers what it means not to vote for this law. You'd better go through that prism, when you're talking about the bad side of these laws, tell the farmers what happens if this law doesn't get passed. Sir, don't mind me. I really forgot your last name. I'm speaking to you. (President: Mr. Plužarevic. Thank you. So, what does that mean? This means that there will still be sparring parcels left in Frusca Mountain, which you are talking about, because under the current law there are no instruments in the Ministry of Agriculture, in local self-government to solve such things, which is in the interest of these farmers. It is in the interest of farmers to start, wherever possible, the process of cohesion, but not under the old law, but according to the new rules, as proposed by this law, very modern and very effective rules; that if someone does not process the agricultural land that agricultural land, conditionally, is taken away, to rent to others, and this owner of agricultural land is compensated. This means that local self-government finally gets the instruments to manage natural resources, and we know that land-free agriculture does not exist. This means that large financial resources and local self-government are provided, both to the autonomous province and to the Republic, which will reinvest precisely in the better use and processing of agricultural land as a natural resource. That means, simply put, I don't owe it, that by passing this law, someone will finally start taking care of agricultural land. So, gentlemen, tell your voters that by not voting for this law, you are about to maintain your current state of affairs. Otherwise, I'd be very happy to pollute with MPs who are really willing to work on this law on a professional basis, but, you know what, talk about genetically modified organisms when discussing the Agricultural Land Act... And to remind the public, it was in 2000 that this team sitting here proposed and the Federal Assembly adopted the Law on genetically modified organisms, where the area of production, import, trade, etc. was finally regulated, all related to genetically modified organisms. Gentlemen, before that, there was a real anarchy on this market. This particular team sitting here last year recorded and found a solution to the genetically modified soybean that was most produced in the area of the Sword, so, please, when you're saying that you're going to vote against, which I don't mind, because otherwise you don't always support something that's modern and that can bring good to this society, explain to people that not voting for this law will just get the farmers what you tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27717	Thank you. Here is the word, "Frislav Peric", and then, as I have told you, the People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, then the People's Messenger Vladislav Kronic, and then they will have the word of the People's Messenger, Milovan Krstin, instead of Lazar Cavic. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law has not dealt with all the problems that appear in practice in this area. The SPS's position is that the state should make a state strategy for agriculture, and then make laws, more of them, which will follow the state strategy. This is a very important area and a production branch that can give a lot if we know what we want and if we have a state strategy for the development of agriculture. Agricultural land is the largest food production plant under the clear sky, where many issues important for this branch of production should be settled in a better way than it is today, because new times require a new strategy, they need new laws, which will cover and solve all problems in this area. It is not good to propose a law that only solves one or two things, as it was done in this law where it is only a matter of renting agricultural land and alienating or selling state land. I will only talk about issues and problems that are not solved by this law. Article 59 regulates what happens if someone does not process agricultural land – the Ministry can give another person to process it for up to three years and the tenant pays the rent. Insufficiently elaborated this problem in law. Many left the village and went to the city and left the land unprocessed. They offer land without compensation to be processed, but no one will do it. The law offers benefits for those who do not process the country – that the Ministry rents for the owner. This member is inapplicable in practice, a lease should be deleted for the owner who does not process the country. If it's like the law, then what's the penalty for one who doesn't farm the land? Article 29 subtitles: protection of agricultural land from frost, city and fire. The member himself writes only one sentence, quotes: "The local self-government unit prescribes measures to protect agricultural land from frost, city, fire and other elemental disasters". This is like that: take care of someone else. This issue of protection against the city is not in the jurisdiction of local administrations, but is done by the Republic hydrometeorological institute. When an area gets into the city and destroys agricultural crops, it's millions of dollars worth of damage and it can't be paid for. That's why I don't think anyone's seriously dealing with this problem. I recently spoke to people who are involved in the launch of anti-building missiles and they tell me – we have three or four missiles at our stations; the last time it was a city cloud we were ordered to fire one rocket, and the other two to save for the second time. I'm interested in who's supposed to finance this and buy rockets, whose concern this is, who's taking care of the people who do this job, how much they're paid, etc.? And imagine, because of the lack of anti-urban missiles, the city in Meroshina destroys agricultural crops and fruits, destroying everything that has done 4,500 agricultural households. Please, but I'm really praying that the Ministry of Agriculture is dealing with this problem and someone is reporting this. This is also my parliamentary question, Mr. President. There is no mention of cooperatives and cooperatives in the entire agricultural land law. In this way cooperatives, we had the first in Europe and when we were so organized we were the biggest exporters and wheat, and fruit, and milk and meat. If one day we have a state strategy for agriculture at the Assembly session, I hope that the issue of cooperatives will also be in the strategy. I can't say that nothing has been done in the area of agriculture. There is also what is well done, for example the registration of agricultural producers, where many subsidies are given and it is good that registered farmers have cheaper fuel, but it is not good that not everyone has. Unregistered farmers do not have to have the same amount of subsidies as registered, but they would have to have some subsidies. It takes loans to get registered agricultural holdings, but credits should also be made possible to those who are not. But it's not a good thing they only give to those who are members of a particular party. One of the members of the law stipulates that the country can be leased for a period of one to 20 years. I asked the amendment to be at least five years old, because it would be a guarantee that the renter would be paid for his work. A one-year lease can be risky and the tenant can do business with loss. I ask the question – what if he takes the land for rent for a year, in that year there is a drought, and there is no contribution, or there is a flood, or what I was saying happens to the city to destroy crops? If by law it would be at least three or five years, then the tenant could take out damage in two to three years. The law stipulates that subsidies are granted by registered producers in the village, and I tell you that if this continues with the village and agriculture, this country will have to pay and grant subsidies to farmers to live in the country. There are many empty houses in the villages, villages are empty, there live mostly older people. This is where the state has to do something. Retirement law didn't get a good look at the peasants. When this pension law was in the Assembly, I submitted an amendment whereby every citizen who comes to the age of retirement, whether he worked in an enterprise or in a farm, gets a pension. And I'm willing to count and see whose contribution is greater to the state, whether he who worked in the company, or the one who worked for 40 years, the one who produced food for those who worked in the company and in the institutions. But this assembly has not adopted my amendment. In the end, it will have to come to this, and that is a key issue for the survival of people in the country who would farm the country. In the end, I submitted an amendment to Article 71, which says that the country of the state is not being sold. Since farmers are dealing with the processing of the country, they know what the sale of the land means. He who sells land is not a good host and is underrated in the village. That is why, in order not to make the state a vote that it is a bad boss and a bad host, this amendment should be adopted. The state doesn't need to sell the country, but to rent it every year to fill the budget. Once you sell the land, you don't have it anymore and you don't have it forever. Once we enter Europe, then all that will be sold. Since the law on underdeveloped areas is i.e. The new law on undeveloped municipalities should be adopted on an urgent basis by 2005. Many say – you do not know what undeveloped municipalities are. That's not true. I will tell you which municipalities were undeveloped by 2005, because there was also the law about it, so are the following: Žabari, Malo Crnića, Žitorja, Doljevac, Vladimirci, Bujanovac, Petrovac, Golubac, Razanj, Božnik, Žagubica, Bosilegrad, Medveđa, Kučevo, Gajin Han, Mali Zvornik, Osijek, Leposavic, Vlasotince, Merosina, Trgovišina, Surdulica, Lebane, Babushnica, Kursumlija, Blace, Bruce and Žitište. This law should be done immediately in the area of agriculture. These municipalities are mostly agricultural, something more needs to be done than they do in other areas. Finally, in addition to the fact that the state and citizens should not sell the country, there is a story about the country's beginning: when God shared the country, a Serb went to the division; by the way, a neighbor stopped by, roasted the brandy and said – stop by to have a drink. He says - I can't, I'm in a hurry, I'm going, God is sharing the land today. He says, "Well, he won't share it immediately, so come and cross, and God will help you." He comes by the river, he loses a little time; when he goes there, God asks, "Who goes now when I have divided everything? Who are you?" He says I'm a Serb. He says, "I've divided, he can't." The Serb says -- you can't share, you have to give me land, where I'm going with the Serbs, I have to live somewhere, etc. But when he told him what he was late for, he said, "Because you're a good man, I see and you don't lie to me, I'll give you a piece of what I left for myself, that there's everything in it, and agriculture and water, everything is born, and I left the best piece for myself, but you must always defend it, because they will take it away from you." At the very end, I must say - the SPS will vote for this law if you accept the amendment that the country cannot be sold, otherwise we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27719	Thank you, Mr. Perry. I thank the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Stojanovic, who, according to Article 101, was wrongly interpreted by the authorised representative, Mr Vitosevic, before that, according to Article 3, accepted the decision and in the mutual conversation it was removed. Here you are, the People's Messenger of Paja Momcilov, then the People's Messenger Vladislav Kronić, and the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27720	Dear People's MPs, to thank you, Mr. President, for meeting us and allowing us this little pretumble. We are extremely many, speakers from the SRS, and we have very little time at our disposal in this principle debate, precisely because of the restrictive Rules of Procedure that we are working on today. One of the predecessors said Serbian radicals are against something new and modern. Let's get out of this, and it's going to be the motto of my presentation, I'm going to try to say right now that we Serbian radicals are behind something that's modern and modern. In order to avoid confusion, I will tell the sources that I quote, that we understand, these are data from the FAO on the profile of the public-industry complex, further, there are data from the World Bank, the latest that I could find, which I could come to and of course, there is a study by the FAO European Committee on Organic Food Production in Bulgaria, Serbia and Kosovo. It's the sources I'm holding on to, and if anyone's gonna argue with that, they're gonna know what they need to argue with. The MPs of the SRS will not vote for both of these laws. Why? Because both laws essentially do not contribute to the development of agrarians, villages and rural regions in Serbia and are opposed to the current EU policy. I'm going to prove it very clearly on numerical and exact examples. Let's see how the agrarian situation has been going in the European Union that we're so seeking. By the 1990s, clearly, at a time of maximum protectionism, fighting for as large as possible to avoid hunger, and since the 1990s, we've seen that this huge protection and prostheticity of large-scale head production, because we've got a disease of crazy cows, we've got pesticides, insecticides that are carcinogenic and we've got environmental pollution. The European Union, which is 90% rural, where 80% of the population lives in rural areas, the Lisbon Declaration, which you know very well, puts the rural region and the village in the centre of attention and says – we are going against large Latins, not to subsidise the production of large ones, but to go to farmers and scholarship them. Who's very damaged here now? The English crown is damaged. A million and a half euros were won as high-ranking owners in Britain. Now they remain without a million-and-a-half euros in EU donation. So, the EU says it doesn't matter that you produce a lot, we don't need it. In 2000, grains were produced for eight billion inhabitants, and over six billion people lived. So, surpluses were created, but again in the same year 2000, 790 million people starved and starved. What is the EU doing? It's destroying supplies. You know what happened to butter, milk, so we don't talk about it. What's the point? The point is to secure the existence of a small farmer. It goes to diversification, it goes to breaking major agrocomplexes, to allow loyal competition, so that the kid can be competitive on the market and produce quality and what does not endanger the environment. If you need a Lisbon declaration, I can deliver it to you. I believe you know her well. It's last year's declaration. This is a European concept. We're going to the Latifundi, and we're going to build up the property using one law. What is important to say, to touch the second law, is a principle debate, we will have time for amendments, we will apologize for everything and everything – we have nothing against genetically modified food the way you do it. We have, of course, but we're going to say something about that when we're talking about this second law, and that's the organic product law. What is the lack of this law? All your laws are paper and they don't correspond to real life. You haven't done a study, you haven't even told us how much a parcel of organic food production is now. You don't know what kind of incentive you're going to achieve. It doesn't exist with you. You share subsidies, in 2005 you divided by name, without criteria. Discretional rights in your ministry have officers to assign up to five million to the name. That's what happened. It was a general mess. As far as this production is concerned, it is very small and cannot go along with your force for genetically modified food and imports. You're the ones who put a genetically modified strain into this country, past the law, after 2000. Use Vienna as your camp and shelter, where genetically modified soybeans go to control and where there is no answer anymore, to the inspector who regularly reports, in the second degree the process of death and does not exist. That's why 54% of the groceries are already with genetically modified food in Serbia and the population eats it. We can discuss whether she's harmful or not. I agree, it's a question, too. In this campaign against the SRS, where you're looking for a really funny thing - to ban the party, you resented us speaking hate. We have nothing against Croats, Slovenians, Bulgarians. Bulgaria is our vice president of the Assembly; Suleiman Spaho, Muslim, here is the MP. Not to mention where SRS officials are from other nationalities. These are the banal lies you make, that we are against other nationalities. We don't mind that you have dual citizenship and a double passport and going to America and to Monsanta you're happy to see a guest. "Monsanto" is a firm that was convicted in America for corruption and that should be known. There was corruption in Indonesia, not to mention suspicion. It's a company that's known for it, not for education and science. America has prosecuted and condemned the Monsanta, which should be said, that's the living truth. So we don't mind when you go to Croatia, but why don't you from Croatia represent the complete attitudes that can be heard there? Why don't you, for example, bring us a book from Croatia, which is now translated into Serbian, and why don't you bring us an appeal from Matice hrvatska, which says this: "Appel for ethical and legal regulation of the use of genetic engineering in food production and distribution". Tell us that, and we'll say hello. We're for an open exchange of expert opinion, but that's not for you. There's only one interest in you that you're following. In the end, you should know that 91% of Europeans want safe food, so does the population of Serbia, and 89% want to have a healthy environment. This would allow organically produced food. That's quite clear. But this is just a declaration, this is a form, this has nothing to do with life. In this study I have stated here, Bulgaria has done much on this plan, Serbia is almost nothing, and in Kosovo it is not known. We're with Kosovo. Air conditioning's out there from the ranks of MPs, which means she agrees. It's nice that you accept the fact that we're with Kosovo. About who has been in power since 2000, who could have started this cycle and who didn't, it's very simple and easy to conclude. For example, a farmer lives hard, his wheat premiums are lifted. This year we might be importing wheat for the first time. What about the principle of EU self-satisfaction? Can't we make our own wheat as much as we need? What is also important and why we raise our voice and claim that the Ministry is incompetent and in a bad way, we will prove it later on on concrete examples, therefore what you are offering us is Europe by 1990, with these solutions of yours. Modern Europe, the Lisbon Declaration, is a small owner, that is to stimulate the sustainability of life in the country and create conditions for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27721	The People's MP Vladislav Kronic has the word, then the People's MP Milorad Krstin, then the People's Messenger Mika Vlaovic. Please, everyone, as I warned a few days ago, provide yourself with literature from neighbouring countries, because of the peace in the region, there is no reason to encourage executive power to re-deliver various examples here. That's what we said last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27722	Mr. President, the honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must at first express my great satisfaction that today this high house is considering such an important law. Agricultural land is a very important resource, perhaps most important, perhaps someone resents me, is more important than land, however, land is one very important agricultural resource and is not the property of any generation, of any state, of any regime, of any ministry. Agricultural land has been produced for millions of years and was once a home rock, and today the land is generally well, in any case, and deserves great attention from the state. Our Constitution in Article 72 paragraph 1 paragraph 13 obliges the State to take care of such resources. As for the agricultural land law, there were also comments in the public debate, and even today here, whether it was on time or not. My wish was for him to come much earlier. However, many have tried hard not to be on time, but in any case, better ever than never. The existing Agricultural Land Act, although certain developments in land policy have occurred in the 1990s, has been highly dysfunctional and has not been applied in the past. This law is among the better laws in Europe that regulate land. I think it belongs to the best laws in our environment. By reading few other laws, Hungarian and Croatian, I concluded that it was among the better laws. What were the criticisms at the expense of this law, is that it did not prescribe the size of the land. There's a lot of flat-rate stories about the size of the land, whether the landowners should be bigger or smaller. We know that in Serbia about three hectares, in Vojvodina 3.2, central Serbia is slightly less. However, it is not a problem, that agriculture with such a size of land is worn and fought on the market. Let me remind you, Japan - something over a hectare, only the United States and in Europe England has something more. You probably can't say that Italian agriculture isn't developed and it doesn't give good effects. Of course, in many countries, even in the Netherlands, where various measures have been taken to make farms 40 acres [40 ha], there are no large holdings, and in my opinion that is not an obstacle. There were criticisms about this law, which were heard in the public debate, that it did not prescribe maximum property, such as in Hungarian law, where 300 hectares were prescribed, and critics said it would cause extensification of production. However, I think that this measure, that this law did not prescribe it, will not cause extensification, but on the contrary, will cause an intensification of production and will just introduce a lease, i.e. the acceptance of the highest price in the tender, which is regulated in that part of the law on the issue of agricultural land, will lead to an increase in the intensity of agricultural production. It is important at this point to stress that I disagree with some predecessors who said it is unnecessary to form a land administration. Of course, it is necessary to form a land administration because there are about four million hectares of farmland in Serbia and the question is what will be done when the restitution is carried out. They'll take care of those four million acres, and you'll admit that four million acres isn't so little. What is important, in Article 1 of this Act, is that the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. What is, in my opinion, very significant, which slowly but certainly introduces our agriculture into well-organised agriculture, is foreseen in this law, which is the adoption of a agricultural base. My predecessors have said a lot about this, but it is important to point out that this land law also works on the principles of decentralisation and, among other things, in the responsibilities regarding the adoption of a agricultural base, of course the agricultural basis of the Republic of Serbia, the province and the municipality. What matters is that agricultural land is used according to a specific plan, to protect, regulate and prescribe its use. The protection of agricultural land is processed in this law in the third chapter, in Articles 15 to 20. It is very important to point out that this law provided for, and in criminal provisions and sanctioned, the introduction of dangerous and harmful substances into agricultural land, because so far we have had a situation where some irresponsible economic operators amounted to agricultural land of whatever waste, they burned it there and, of course, the authorities could not effectively sanction it. What is very important for Serbia, this law provides, because Serbia suffers from erosion, counter-erozione measures. Also, the positive flow of this law, and one modern agriculture without it can in any case, is primarily the control of the fertility of the land. What was once a science, a profession, what was taught at agricultural colleges, is recommended to control the fertility of the land every five years and of course it is in this law. Here we were talking about prescribing mandatory use of stables as measures to improve the fertility of land. Of course, the fertility of land depends, in any case, not only on the mechanical, chemical composition of the soil, on its physical characteristics, i.e. the water and air regime, but also on a fine organic matter called humus, which, of course, depends on the amount of organic matter being introduced into the soil, and one of these measures is, of course, the introduction of stables. The quality of that barn should also be prescribed because it does not matter what it is, etc. So one integrated approach to this production... However, the amount of habitats in the land cannot be determined by these chemical methods. In the case of soil fertility control, the content of humus, then nitrogen, phosphorus matter, i.e. potassium and other macro and micro elements shall be determined. For each owner, it is unusually important to know what condition his land is. Trend in the quality of agricultural land in the last 30, especially in the last 20 years is a decline in the content of humus and of course it is not good. It's not good because he's a bad boss, because hummus isn't created that easily. As for the deforestation of agricultural land, I think it is well foreseen in Article 27 where it is said that agricultural parcels can be one hectare, or 0.5 hectare. In this law, Article 28 regulated something that I had a lot of problems with in my 30-year agricultural practice, which is Polish damage. These are just the damages that occurred in the past, above all, from the nomadic pasture, and we have often been unable to counter this social evil that, of course, someone has been using a lot. What's important, in some former legislation, above all Vojvodina, was forbidden that pasture, but after that, we had serious problems. Of course, owners of these herds jumped in by buying half a hectare or one hectare, still bringing herds from other parts and causing certain damage. With regard to the arrangements of agricultural land regulated in Article 30, a detailed process of compromise has been processed. Given that future changes will take place unwittingly towards the accumulation of certain properties, and in the ownership structure, people will have more and more changes, it is necessary to prescribe and this law prescribes what Member States mean, which authorities of local self-government that authorities must form. Of course, the accumulation of agricultural areas is also possible. In Article 50, what is required to irrigate land is prescribed. As for chapter five, a TV set has been going on TV all the time these days to scare farmers that someone who doesn't process will be punished by 20,000 dinars. I would just say something, I would remind these older ones, and I would inform these younger ones, that it was long ago in our legislation, there were measures that if someone didn't process land, they paid the fine. I'm sure people remember the law on agrominium, so if someone hadn't processed the state organ, they were taking it away and giving it to someone else. It's been since 1945, so it's been in the legislation all the time. Of course, it was much stricter than in the past, so the one who didn't put the corn away by May 1st and destroyed it was also suffering certain consequences. As for the great controversy over the lease of state land, it is normal that something that will be subject to restitution until the restitution is completed is subject to the renting of agricultural land and this law has very precisely prescribed how this is happening and what are the conditions for priority. Of course, part of the lease must be paid into the republican budget of the province of Vojvodina, or local self-government. Article 71 regulates the transport of agricultural land. Just a few words about traffic. I don't know if you know, by the letter of the current law, it's much easier to sell state land than by the letter of this law. According to the current law, agricultural land can also be sold by the minister. Under the law, agricultural land will be able to sell only the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is good for me, too, is the creation of an information system on agricultural land. I think it's modern-day fluid and it's necessary, given that we know what the situation in our disaster is, that a single information system is really forming. What is also very positive and is in Article 80, it is the ministry's obligation to bring good practice to agriculture. Of course, this law also contains provisions relating to supervision and, of course, criminal provisions that are in line. As for organic production, or organic production laws and organic products, someone here said there was no data. There are data, about 10,000 hectares, i.e. on that surface, collection is made from nature, products produced in nature, and only at 550 hectares we have organized organic production. I'm more in favour of the production that produces health-safe food, where the use, of course, of all chemical and synthetic materials is controlled. The current situation in organic production, given existing legislation, is quite colourful and undefined and makes it impossible for our producers to produce these products efficiently and export to foreign markets. What's important that this could happen? It is important to have certain resources, certain knowledge and, of course, the right law. It is necessary that our houses are qualified for the certification of organic production, but also for consumers in Serbia, it is important to resertify organic production, so those products that are produced according to some certifications and we have them, because when you buy a product from organic production, you pay it expensively, and 50 or 60 percent more, of course you want a home house to have it as well. This law regulates the marking, transport, storage, transport and, as in all laws, there are parts relating to criminal provisions. I want to say a few more sentences about the state of our agriculture, since there's been a lot of talk here about it. If we take 1996, then we move on until 2006, so that's the last ten years, only in 2005, we have what's important in agriculture. What's the big deal? Whether it's good or not, we can discuss it, but what it looks like when you take the balance of payments, it's your entry, exit and state, as the accountants say, so from 1996 to 2004 this country had a deficit compared to the export of agricultural products. So we've been importing more agricultural products than we've exported. For the first time in 2004, it was zero somewhere, but we had a surplus compared to the EU, and in 2005, a positive agricultural production balance was a billion dollars with $250m surplus. So, we've exported a billion dollars, and whether it's good or not, as it came, whether it fell from the sky, it's not, of course, because in the last three years about 60 billion dinars from the Serbian budget have been directed into the agricultural budget. Before that, we know how it was. It is also important to highlight for the 2003 budget, as 3.5 per cent participated in the agrarian budget, and now it participates 5.5 per cent. Therefore, so much about how much the state takes care of it. Credits are the last time for agriculture from state couples, which is said to have been broadcast in 1975 and since then to this government were gone. The truth is, I must say, since this was the case, the Agriculture Committee has formed a commission to review the loans. The commission has three members and one of them is me, I took part in the work and I have to inform the public of the Republic of Serbia: Mr Sasa Vitosevic's name has not been found, is not available as a beneficiary of the loan from the Republic of Serbia's budget. One more thing, since 1996 and so on, about agrarian politics, I would say just a few words and I'll end up with that, that since 2004, and a little while before that, we don't have a situation to kidnap our farmers from wheat, to pay how much they pay, there's no shortage of oil, sugar, flour and stuff, to get it through a relationship, to buy fuel at pumps, not in coke bottles, and sugar is one of the main export products of this country, etc. For several years now, I've been listening to stories from my distinguished colleagues and my friends who have been crying over fate about what will happen to wheat, and I've been hearing this since 2004; there have been stories of disaster, that there will be no wheat, and the last time it is imported wheat, but not during this government, but some of the previous ones. There are no imports of wheat, and I'm going to disappoint the great experts who say we're going to be under two million tons this year. These last two years we have over two million and 100,000 tons, the Republic stock reserves are full, I'm not going to say how much, it's a state secret, but it's provided bread and it's going to be provided bread this year, because 520,000 acres times four, and that's enough again, it's going to be wheat. We even expect this year, given the weather and regardless of floods and groundwater, to the crop state, that we will have close to two million tonnes of wheat and there will be exports of both flour and pasta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27723	Thank you, Mr. Kronic. The People's Messenger, Milorad Krstin, has the word, and the People's Messenger Mika Vlaović, and the People's Messenger Ivan Radic. Please, one moment, excuse me, one moment, Mr. Cavic, you're instead of Paia Momchilova, you asked for this, I've already informed you several times. Be kind, please, just a moment, there's no reason... So, you, Mr. Radic, agree to move the list of speakers from your parliamentary group? It wasn't a request, but I accept it. Please, Mr. Cavic, Mr. Christin, you have no reason to... So, Mr. Cavic, then you'll have a word, and then all the speakers will move. Also, to avoid misunderstandings, I will read (please, Mr. Krstin, have a little patience) for all other groups, because I see that it is not being monitored concentrated, so: 34 minutes for the SRS parliamentary group, 44 minutes for the DSS parliamentary group, 15 minutes for the G17 group plus and there is no remaining time for the SPS parliamentary group. It's a state of mind at this point, please take care of it, there's no reason to throw at what speed this session is going to take, and how much wheat there will be, we'll know by the end of the session. Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27724	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after such a convincing speech by my previous colleague, we are the richest, strongest in Europe, we have everything, only those who make the laws should first walk the field, and then they will know what we have in the field. This law, I listen from colleagues from the ruling coalition, they say, is not too late, which is late, has arrived in time, and could have come in 2030, because we will not be close to the EU then. Again, I say that the members of the Committee on Agriculture have sought a law on agricultural land, amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act, etc. However, 14 laws were promised last year, and we have three or four, not counting regulations, orders and the rest, but finally this very important law has come to this country, and it is about protecting agricultural land. When a man looks at this law, he comes across Article 64, which is very interesting and immediately speaks about this law. According to Article 64, the right to rent agricultural land has a natural or legal person. So we're equating both farmers, paoras, peasants with those who are tycoons, but here's Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic says this law was just done against the tycoon. Here, take a look at the first point in this Article 64, says – the legal person who owns the irrigation and disposal system that is in use, for a number of years now under the age of 15, ponds and other agricultural facilities on agricultural land that is leased. Gentlemen, let's see what the big farmers who have the irrigation system are, and they're next to them, so they can rent it or whatever it is they say they take in the arena. Let's see those who have irrigation systems without being tycoons. The second thing that goes into our eyes is that we're just building agencies, and now we're not making agencies, we're making administrations, the agricultural land administration, and that administration, as we've already said here, is 70 million costs. It's not a big deal, but when we know we had 963.381 agricultural land, and now we have 778,891, I apologize if I was wrong, then the Ministry of Agriculture made a mistake. The reduction in agricultural holdings in central Serbia is 20% and in Vojvodina 22%. But let's start with what hurts each and every one of us. Here you boast about how many registered agricultural holdings there are. People were registering because they thought that what you promised would help them, and you were actually giving them loans, short-term, long-term and non-refundable. I heard the irrevocables all got radicals, long-term radicals all got radicals, and the short-terms didn't get any. Find me. Where's Rafaelovic? How much did his son get? Thirty thousand? I didn't even get short-terms. What? We're the snotty radicals, so we can't win. This country is so radical, it is strong and Serbia will be strong with us. That's why agriculture will be strong when we're in power. That's how it's gonna be. Credits, gentlemen, to encourage the development of the irrigation system were 180 million dinars, Ministry of Agriculture. We get on the board: three subjects get, three times 60 million. Why wasn't it 60 times three million? And today, we didn't get the answer that those three entities got for 60 million. Five years, four years back 15 million a year. (The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: ask it as a parliamentary question. It's not just that. We were looking for something else. You know very well we had an accident. flood, a weather accident in the municipality of Sječanj inhabited town of Jaša Tomic, the municipality of Zitište inhabited town of Međa. We were looking for a tour, and the board members were there... They simply asked us from the municipal administration to deliver to us what farmers or owners of houses and countries who received compensation and in what amount, because the municipal administration had no at all, because you directly gave it to registered agricultural holdings through an account. At least you could have delivered the list to us. This is set, we set up a couple of times on the Committee on Agriculture. We didn't get that either, and you didn't get it. And my esteemed colleague came out and said – there is no Vitosevic anywhere; he didn't take it, he got it, he got 13.5 million dinars. Come on, give us all the lists, and that's what we've been looking for, in the districts, short-term loans to whoever got them, long-term loans to who got them. You haven't even solved the issue of stock reserves. The stock reserves were at a deficit of 18 billion dinars. People owe from 500,000 to 5 million, those who held these companies, cooperatives, etc. None of them are punished. The money hasn't been returned, and he takes 20 liters of oil to buy the kid a book and stays in jail for three months. It's not for the development of agriculture. It's for the development of agriculture, but 18 billion are gone, no one is punished. That's one big problem. Since Mr. Zivko is here, let me take the opportunity. If you don't know, the Norwegian government and the town of Narvik, who I'm picking up with Kickinda, the center of the Northbanat County, when they were supposed to get 150,000 euros... Just laugh, Vitoshevich, and those cows are no longer laughing, and we have 3,000 to slaughter only in Vojvodina. The town of Narvik was supposed to donate 150,000 euros, but to the farming community, according to their system, the Norwegian system. You were that braker, because you wouldn't let the money go to the radical community, the strongest radical community along with Novi Sad, and I'm not going to order any more of these 12. Only when I intervened was Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27725	Mr. Christin, just a moment. Please, don't throw the speaker away. Be kind, don't confuse the citizens. There are no municipalities in this way, you know what municipalities are like in Serbia. There's no such thing as municipal parties. You also know that it is not possible to answer you, please, what is said from the parliamentary benches, if you want something recorded as a parliamentary question, to be recorded as a parliamentary question, because you know that there is no right, except for the minister, to answer here at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27726	Yes, but the parliamentary question is read by me and two or three, and here is the whole of Serbia. Then why would I ask a parliamentary question? When this 150,000 intervened with Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, she said – money no matter where it came from, comes to Serbia, it doesn't matter which city. I had to commend this because it really was. Mr. Zivko, you're from back in Kickinda, I'm only from Zrenjanin, there was a place next to Zrenjanin in the Central Banat County... Let's get back to one more piece of this law, say there's one part in it. Yes, if I were to mention that the commission started in my place as early as 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993 and failed, because the configuration of the terrain and the quality of the agricultural land does not allow for the accumulation, the accumulation of land, since the pastures, we have 600,000 pastures, only those little hills that rise slightly above the levels of these pastures are plowed, worked, sown, produced. There's just one more thing I need to ask you. You say agriculture in Serbia has never been stronger. What is it that you did for those who produce wheat? I don't have the fertilizer I bought, and I gave 2,470 dinars, I don't have price protection, I don't know who's going to buy it, and you, I guarantee you, after many years of wheat. There's no wheat. What my colleague says we'll have an extra one, that doesn't matter. You've lifted the wheat premium, sunflower, sugar beet. You left for pumpkins and oily tails. Gentlemen, these pumpkins may have planted 10 acres, no more in all of Serbia. Oil rape is Serbia's future power, biodiesel only comes out of the oily tail. That's what you took. You cut off the subsidies from the farmers, and you gave them credit that they pay back at a certain rate. It is for you to say that 4.2, 4.5, etc., but people have returned. You said here, someone mentioned 55,000 registered agricultural holdings got loans. Well, I wouldn't say that, I wouldn't say that. I've got one big zero coming out of me right now. I'd like to ask you to, and I'll provide you with the material to make sure that the agricultural holdings are sold at the auction at the Privatisation Agency. I didn't bring the pay phone material here, it's in my place, so I'll get it to you. Does it have any contact between the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture, which takes care of former cooperative agricultural enterprises, cooperatives, agricultural goods, etc. You'd have to take care of that. See after it's sold, who's buying, and who's buying. It's a disaster. If you're already doing a law where the tycoons won't be able to buy, at least check out those tycoons for what they have at the Privatisation Agency. The example is a cooperative agricultural company, then named, in my place, bought by Kasa through the company "Eurocorp" from Sainta via Mr. Rudy. It says 70% of social land, 18.68% of state land; it's sold, others do, and no one has a share, not those people who have worked for 37 years or who have worked for two years. Well, check it out, 'cause it's going to be a parliamentary question, so you can check out how privatized it is, who owns it, and how it came to be the owner of Mr. Cass through Rudy and Eurocorp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27727	Thank you, Mr. Christin. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. National MP Natasa Jovanovic will then have a word, as we have said, MP Mika Vlaovic, and then MP Ivan Radic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27728	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to advertise Article 198 and 199. Rules of Procedure. In fact, you, Mr. Markovic, today especially, and that was the case a few days ago, created or tried to create a kind of confusion among the MPs. If you have noticed, I am now speaking to the MPs, in the presentation of Mr Krstin, at the presentation of Mr. Hranislav Perić, another colleague, Mr. President of the National Assembly, has directed MPs and stenographers to pay attention to the questionable tone in the sentence when colleagues commented on this disastrous bill, against whom the SRS will be against, noting that the stenographers and competent services understand that this is a parliamentary issue. I'm asking you now, Mr. Markovic, if that's the case, and it doesn't fit Articles 198 and 199. Rules of Procedure, does this mean that you, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have, by oral amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, decided that today we MPs can, which is, of course, outside of this time for parliamentary groups, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask the questions of Minister Ivana Dulic? If so, then I would start by asking my parliamentary questions about the general strike at PIC "Oplenac" - Topola, where people, 82 are employed in a company bought by one of the mobsters from DS, a certain Nemanja Popov, for 40 months they have not received a salary, they are not being paid a contribution and some of them are ready to enter the hunger strike and this is today the biggest problem in a municipality in Serbia. So the second question for Ivana Dulic, Minister of Agriculture – how is it possible to tell us about the prosperity of this, for us the most important branches in Serbia, one of which is systematically doing everything, and she as minister and her associates, through the authority of local self-government in the town of Kragujevac, to shut down the oldest agricultural scientific institution, the Kragujevac Street Institute, which was founded in 1898, which was now left without the possibility of using land. All science doctors, magistrates, young experts employed in this world famously, the institute is almost on the verge or quit, people don't know what to do, because local self-government took away their land, didn't give them another promise in the village of Jarusica. Now let me not explain to you where, at the heart of Serbia, in Šumadia, near Kragujevac, it is no matter when you do nothing to save the oldest scientific institution in the area of agriculture. And are you familiar with this, since you are very close to the Democratic Foreigner and what they are doing, how they are harassing and robbing Serbia, that this prominent member of Nemanja Popov bought PIC "Oplenac" for which workers are now forced to sacrifice their lives if necessary and entered the general strike because they were robbed and stolen. He took 300 acres of land and, you know, from that song "The vineyards down by Topola" remained only a verse, because one such tycoon, perhaps not so famous to the general public, ruined everything that could be ruined in that municipality. The question to you, then, is that the other colleagues, on this principle, would come out and ask parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27729	Thank you. I'll just let you know. So, no, I'm not according to Article 199, which you've called on, I've determined that now past the rules will be time, so it's not, but I'm asking you for correctness, and we've done it before, under Article 198, when the question is asked precisely because of attitude 2 which says that the parliamentary question must be clearly formulated and attitude 3 that says - the parliamentary question is referred to the competent minister or government. So, I don't list all the attitudes, I say in relation to which attitudes I am today, and even before... In order to meet the responsible MPs who should be informed of what is important for their work because of their work by other members of the Rules of Procedure. I have made it possible for these two attitudes to be recorded by the people who work on the stenogram, then according to this attitude 2, in case they are not clearly defined, because there is a burning exposure, so that they can get a precise answer, to check. That's what I realized today. I also refer MPs, in case it is not addressed to the competent minister, so I check for it, or if it is requested to be answered immediately, then I recommend that it be referred to the competent minister such as the question which was just asked by Mr Krstin, as regards the stock reserves, therefore, to the competent minister Dimitrijevic. So, whatever it's about, there are, of course, administrations... In any case, it was my help, because, as you know, Mr. Krstin had just said that, often some things are spoken for the public, and answers to parliamentary questions, quote Mr. Krstin, and answers to parliamentary questions are usually delivered to all MPs and in 50 copies to all journalists. Here's an example, so that's how it's written, but the fact is, judging by what the papers say, journalists don't read it, they keep asking if they're ever going to ask a parliamentary question. Of course, many MPs, if not from their area, do not arrive because of a large number of material to read. That's all, otherwise I haven't set the time. If I had determined that, I would have informed you all in good time. Of course, everything you have said will also be in the form of a parliamentary matter delivered, and in case there is a misunderstanding and a need to be clearly formulated, you will be given the question for insight before I sign the request. Thank you. The People's Messenger Mika Vlaovic has a word, and the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic, the People's Messenger of Sredoje Mihajlov, and the People's Messenger Ivan Radic. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27730	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the honourable members of the Ministry, have been told a lot about this law, and I will try in short lines to present something that may have been skipped here in a certain way. It is a pity that this law was not passed in 1993-1994, many things in agriculture would look different. In the first member of this law, there is a good view that agricultural land in Serbia cannot buy foreign or natural persons. If it had been brought before, something that was sold, it wouldn't have been sold. I have put a number of amendments to the proposal for this law, many of which have been adopted; some of them that have been rejected have been agreed on by the Committee on Agriculture, and these are amendments by the Committee on Agriculture. I don't think anyone mentioned in Article 16 that the use of non-biodegradable foil is prohibited. That, you'll agree, on agricultural land is quite a problem. The foil is provided, no one collects it, and it is known that even for a simple nylon bag it takes 10 years to break down, then it gets stuck on agricultural machines, sowers, combined and real problems, even a real problem in water supply, because it wraps around some plant and there is not enough water. Amendment to Article 28 has been accepted It was a ban on nomadic pasture. However, nomadic pastures are long gone in the fields of Serbia, nomads have long been playing the law, buying a piece of land, reporting that thousands of sheep are living in farmland from first to fifth class, and pastures where they need to be plagued are empty, no shepherds, no shepherds, no sheep, no sheep. In Article 48, a voluntary grouping of agricultural land has been regulated, since agriculture is something I welcome in a certain way, it has been exempt from paying administrative fees and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. It's something that will eventually be a more suitable form than a massage. Because some future in Serbia will be to reduce the number of agricultural holdings, to increase farms. In any case, the commission, if it is conducted in one municipality and in one populated place, costs a lot. If every couple of years the land is reduced and the property is built up, every few years there should be a commission, and the commission is a big, expensive job for both the state and the citizens, because in the third year, when the hopes come... The first year is determined by ownership, the second year is agreed on where to get and the third year is taken into possession; no one can enter into possession until the fields are clean, and there is already an end of November, so no preparation for the sowing of crops to be sown in the spring, nor can autumn crops be sown in time. This way, two or three farmers will be able to bring the fields together, whoever they have to, and not pay any taxes or taxes for it. In Articles 63 and 64, which has been the most slowed down here, and it seems to me that rarely anyone who has explained it to the end, everyone has somehow tried to show what goes in his favor, says – the right to buy has one who has irrigation systems, multi-annual plantings, and then ends. And it goes on to say -- and a natural person, a farmer, and eventually one who offers the highest price, which is in a certain way normal; well, let one of you raise your hand who would sell something of yours to someone below the price because it has beautiful blue eyes and because it's wearing it either way or belonging to this or that political group. Let's get serious about it. One more thing. And the combined ones are right here at the championship. If on one side they are said to be ideal continents of 10, 15 thousand hectares, which have a rounded system of production, and production, and processing, and production of seed material and slaughterhouses, then they should be easier to give 100 euros per hectare, than one farmer who, we will agree, has been on a small estate for many years and on the wind, was not a favorite of society, as they were combined. In the end, I would agree with the fact that two combinations in Serbia that are really something better than others, but still not ideal, get the right that someone asked for in one amendment. In that case, the right to prevent purchases would have been given to all tycoons who have bought social land in their previous privatisation, and then would have been used by the state. The state land has 270-300 000 hectares, which is 30m euros, transferred to dinars, which is two billion 600m. Serbian citizens must know what order it is. Two million hectares of diesel fuel per hectare, 16 dinars cheaper than the price, cover the registration of agricultural households in Serbia. Only 300 million were allocated from the budget for this purpose. Then what's the order of two billion and 600 million? How much help could these be? Don't shed crocodile tears, it's hard to live in agriculture, it's hard to live in all areas of this society, and it's at least the government's fault. A lot was inherited from a long time ago. If, however, those hosts survived in the wind for 60 years, they managed to preserve the faith, customs, godfathership, friendship, remain hosts and improve the property, they would still succeed, and these tycoons that came easily to money will one day be given water, water, and carried away. A small part of the country in Serbia is held by them, a large part is still in the hands of those hosts who are hard-core, who give up a lot of things, but want to preserve the property they have left of their ancestors. There's something else. They won't combine failure, no one's gonna take anything from them, if they're pretending too. For example, 3,000 employees at 14,000 hectares can't survive. That's 4.5 hectares per employee, one hectare brings 1,000 euros of clean income, they can't pay their dues. I'm asked by a farmer, I won't mention his name, he's at age. He showed me yesterday a solution by the meeting committee in Zablja to increase the General Property Fund of 1953. Chika hosted, had 34-35 acres, when he had 10 acres left, half of it was taken away, asked the board's title to leave him with those parcels that were grouped, and to spread the parcels into the general estate fund. They replied that the parcels that were included needed to join the peasants, the workers, as it was at the time, and he would remain scattered plots, and the conclusion is – there is no right to appeal against this, and we think that we have done both sides. Judge how much they've done to this uncle. There's a lot of questions here about what's going to happen to the institutes. They will remain seed houses that produce seeds, because they produce good seeds. Something that was wrong with them, it was a human factor, because there was no competition. Just one piece of information: 7% of the sunflower seeds that are being sown in Europe originates from the Institute in Novi Sad. Imagine if every seventh car in Europe was from the flag, where we would end. They'll be your institutes, they'll work a little more, they'll take care of it a little bit more. The seed that does not have a certain pliability would rather be thrown away than sold, that they must pay for damages, since a certain order has already been introduced by the Law on fruit material. You can't sell seed potatoes on the market without a label. The one bought with the label, our production, from Guca, is good, same as the Netherlands. It could be even cheaper if they were to adjust a little bit, make a little less money, and the competition of the world and the open market doesn't bother us, if we behave patrioticly, like all citizens in the normal countries of the world. Who makes you buy this? Buy New Sad and Zemun Field. There's no need to be afraid that if the big pitches get wet, it'll be the end of the world. No one in Europe has a large plot. The largest parcels are in Europe: the Czech Republic 79.9 ha average, Great Britain 57.4 ha, USA 179.5 ha, Italy has 6.7 ha and Poland has 6.6, so live, products and are quite agricultural powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27731	The People's Messenger Lazar Cavic has a word, and the Messenger of the people is Sredo (Mihajl) and the Messenger of the people Ivan Radić. Since you've given a large number of accurate data, you want to enter a correction – 7% is every fourteenth car. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the opening presentation of Dr Zoran Mašić, future Minister of Agriculture, a little something new to be said. I see this current minister is laughing. It's not easy for her. She's not even aware of her unconsciousness. She's convinced, they convinced her that these laws proposed to the National Assembly are good, but the situation on the ground shows something else. Have him show up at our house in Srem and see what's going on in the field. I think she'd have a really bad time with the people and the peasants. I'll give examples of my community. The municipality of Pecinci owns about 10 hectares of state-owned land, which is divided into private firms that are not registered at all in the Ministry of Agriculture and have no legal solutions on the use of the land and have not been published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". A clear example is "MK Komertz", "Agrina" Rumenka, who last year finished harvesting in the second half of August, and a good portion of the wheat ended up in ponds, which shows that the purpose is not to improve agriculture at all, but rather to manipulate agricultural loans. It is one of the examples that can be checked in the Assembly of the Municipality of Resor for Agriculture, which also makes it difficult to provide data as it works, where it is done and does not have accurate data on the sown areas. All the data they get is a fake, because there's no legal counsel. Since half of the agricultural companies have been shut down and 90% of the workers are at the Bureau, it can be checked at the Employment Office. This law also gives great authority to local self-government. The problem is, they're going to be where they're "yellow" in power, because they're going to follow the money and use it for some other purpose entirely. At least in my community politics is run by incompetent people who have nothing to do with agriculture. What I mentioned earlier, I believe will be used for other purposes, and one part will go into private pockets. Also, with regard to equality and bids on state land, where they are placed in the same basket of natural and legal persons, it is a clear farce, because no natural person can mate with law, except for the listeners of power. Also, in Article 17 relating to the use of clean water for irrigation, it is normal to first clear the canals and to raise the systems that stand hard and are not functional. I can give you an example of this. We could have watered about 400 ha of land, and it refers to the systems of agricultural cooperatives Asanja and Obrež, which 15 years ago brought a third of their income to these companies, and now they stand as monuments in quite a poor state. Article 26. refers to artificial meadows and pastures, to improve the type of livestock, but lately the trend in prices on the market is specifically related to pig farming – with a price of 130 dinars, currently falling to poor 45 dinars. So the cattlemen who had their pig's downfalls and the bulls' stops see that they deliver them as soon as possible, so that they lose as little as possible at the price, because they don't already have any profit. In this way, the Ministry directly affects the choking of the livestock stock, so that the farmer is not interested in livestock production at all, because as soon as the Ministry notices that the farmer gets some money, the faster the imports of the livestock and other livestock products and knocks down the price, so that the farmer remains nothing, not counting his work and effort. I have also submitted an amendment where the words "one year" are replaced by the words "three years", and it is about renting land, which would be favourable for any owner who would apply agricultural and fertile land to that land, i.e. In the same land, no culture can be grown for three years; this owner would grow wheat one year, another year sugar beet or soy, and third year corn, because some cultures suffer from similar plant diseases. For example, sunflower never goes to soy, and vice versa. Each owner would exchange those cultures during that period, and if given for one year, owners will see that they make the most of the country using various chemical preparations, so next year the next owner would not have economic production. If the first owner grows corn and instead of one liter of atrazine per hectare he sprays with two liters, next year the owner will sow wheat and have nothing, because it will be a high concentration of the chemical agent. Also, the use of artificial fertilizer in large quantities will lead to acidification of land or a large amount of pill that destroys the structure of the land. It's just one part of the example that's supposed to give land for years, not just one year. Also, every farm organization owns a field book, so that every moment it can check out what was used for land. In Article 65, in order to ensure the payment of the lease, it is difficult to verify whether the buyer concerned owns all the banking documents given as a asset. It will not be possible to check, as members of DS and G17 plus, who will receive these papers, sit in the commission of local self-government. In Article 67(2), point 3 is added. Our proposal is that the buildings follow the fate of the land. If the building is built on land belonging to state property, so that the owner can invest something and bring these buildings into functional condition, when the funds are invested, they must be given to it for several years, so that they can carry out production, since 90% of these buildings are in semi-destruct condition, so they are not for any use. If you had adopted amendments to the SRS, it would have been much easier to carry out agricultural production by future owners who would have agreed to all these conditions, which would have brought profit to both the state and the leaser of state land. In this case, the future owner doesn't see that he can make any profit on his hard work and money. This law will benefit only meshes, greensmen and individual members of local self-government. The state won't even notice how much money has been poured into their private pockets. This specifically refers to DS and G17 plus, which are the biggest thieves and advocates of such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27733	Mr. Cavic, I warn you, and I ask you to choose your words when you speak of parties that are parliamentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27734	For that reason, we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27735	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27736	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 223 and 225. Rules of Procedure. It's near the end of the book, so open up to look, I guess you don't know every member of the Rules of Procedure by heart. Article 223 says the president of the National Assembly can grant the MP a leave of absence from the session, which is notified by the National Assembly. Mr. Markovic, you know that we are only responsible before God, before the people and the head of the SRS parliamentary group Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Since today, in addition to so many arguments and the presence of a large number of SRS MPs, one was prevented from coming, I must say for the public's sake that it was a fellow SRS MP, Branislav Rankic, who, convincingly yesterday, won the elections for the president of the Municipality of Bor and won 65% of the vote, although the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, with all Serbian president and the yellow mob organisation, has worked very hard to condemn it. I also have to thank the citizens of Bor who came out in so many numbers and showed us confidence in the Serbian Radicals and our colleague Rankic, which is just the introduction of what's going to happen in Serbia, starting yesterday and all the next elections, and we expect elections at all levels, to clear up once and for all with this law and with everything that is now on the agenda and what will be in the future, these few months as far as you are in power. Since I have also reported on the first position of Article 225, I felt, Mr President, that this is very important information to perform the duties of the MP, so that when colleagues from the ruling structure address us Serbian radicals, they would have in mind that they are talking to the electoral body of 65% or more, a little bit, so that you can freely tell them that every other commentation or every other way of going forward is not funny, but citizens recognize it, only those within two percent, how many votes for such foreigners, as something positive, and everyone else, and thank God, many of them, are 65%, 70%, who knows how much percentages they will be, believe that what every SRS MP says is the only right and normal solution for Serbia and all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27737	According to Article 223, the president of the National Assembly may grant the MP a leave of absence from the session, which is notified by the National Assembly. Compared to that, I'll check it out. I didn't approve Mr. Rankic's absence, so we'll check to see if he's exercising all his rights. I simply find that it is not required, but I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the work of the Assembly is public and we are in direct transmission, so I cannot warn Members in any way if they address one place, so it is not possible to verify, and especially based on the information that you have provided. I think they are important for the function of the MP, according to Article 225, but, as you know, these were elections, thank you for the notice, although it has been repeated several times, for the president of the municipality. So, personal participation, it wasn't an election for party lists. Anyway, my congratulations to Mr. Rankic, as well as my congratulations to anyone who personally wins this election. Replication to what? I've given notice to the MPs. The People's Messenger Sredoja Mihajlov has the word, then the Messenger Ivan Radic, and then Branislav Tosic. Once again, I remind you of the time MP groups have available: 16 minutes SRS, 31 minutes DSS and 15 minutes G17 plus. The rest of them don't have any more time at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27738	Dear President, honourable MPs, I must say that I am truly happy and pleased that the Ministry, headed by the minister, has found the courage to propose one of these laws. It seems too late to me, too, but then there were some other people who thought differently, and then it didn't seem too late, they thought it was fair not to pass that law. I come from a region where the country is a cult and for the country it wasn't fought with us, the land was bought or inherited, another way it wasn't to become the owner of the country. And, when it comes to this national wealth, that value, and we Banacans and Vojvodians have a special relationship to it, we really are a cult, I'm glad the Ministry suggested that the country, at least as long as we can, until we're under obligation, until we're in one common state, we don't sell to others. I'm glad we gave our children a chance to buy their land. If some other parts of our dear country had thought so and perhaps not easily and easily sold that land, if they had a cult, we might not have had these problems that we now have. Of course, not with this country, but with someone who was also ours, so we gave it up or we sold it easily. I think it's a good idea that the country is not selling to foreigners, at least for a while, and I think we should make a global plan, a strategy to encourage non-small pairs, but those pairs, our farmers who can be in the European game. There's been a lot of information, not to repeat it, I'm just going to look back at a few details that haven't been talked about. I wouldn't repeat all the bill proposals that I think are good. There may be some gaps, but of course it's not a sacred letter, when we see that something is a problem or a brake, we'll fix it, but for now it's a traversing. What has been abandoned for years, when it was not known who owns it, when it was not known what the state is, of all five forms of property, social, state, cooperative, private and undefined, it is not clear yet and in our cadastrian books it is not true and clearly distinguished what it is and how state it is. We have a big job coming up, the Ministry is coming up, which is to determine property, to make order in a messy situation. To be honest, you don't even know the difference between a partner and a private, so I don't explain it to you. Those who know understand me well, what it looks like, how broken the road, the ice, usurped, do those who aren't in possession. There's a big order to make, and I'm just expecting from these basics, from the beginning, to see what it is, to respect order. Those who didn't know how it was arranged once... A hundred years ago, there was a line, and you weren't allowed to look at someone's arm, and you were allowed to usurp something that wasn't yours. Anyway, that's where it has to start from the very beginning, and I think that's the basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27739	Please don't throw it away. Miss Jovanovic, please don't throw away. After all, the citizens know that Ledines are still well-organized, and that's why they're called Ledine. Here you go, Mr. Michael, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27740	Let's say another important thing about this law, which is proposed, which is that the country is being transferred to a local and allows local self-government to decide that it has a pretty big impact. This is important not only because it is pro-European and we accept some European standards, but because of our village and our local self-government that has been completely devoid and has had no influence in those Ataris, that it manages the country that was in its Atarium. It's going to be here, and it's quite flexible, which is significant, because someone would find themselves on one line, and someone with the other one would be more suitable to sell it to someone, and to someone completely. Somewhere maybe there's no interest in selling it smaller. This is another good side of this law, so that proper situations and some requirements of local self-government can be found. What else does it matter to me? What's important is that it's all going to be informatively processed, which will be on magnetic media, which will be digitized, which will be transparent and modern...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27741	Mr. Michael, if you'll excuse me one more time, be kind. Please, Mr. Vitosevic, for each type of data it is possible, it is not necessary to give them in another way, communication is considered commonly unnecessary, be kind. Excuse me, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27742	I think it's important to transfer all this to magnetic media...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27743	I ask you once again for decent behavior, and who can't control his feelings doesn't have to sit in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27744	I don't know what's funny about what I said, but okay, never mind. 250 years ago, it could've been done with a pen on paper, and we can do that with the help of this technology to make our records accurate, accurate, and where there wasn't a record there would be a great deal of work to be decent and to get it all in order. I'm glad this is the G17 plus party, her minister, that the Ministry had the courage to propose one law. I won't talk about all the members of the law, it's a lot said about them, but in any case, the G17 Plus party will vote for this law, which is European and I congratulate you on the courage that the Ministry has found the courage to put into order after so many years what has been unsettled for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27745	Thank you very much, Mr. Michael. Once again, I apologize for the occasional throw-offs on both the left and the right. The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and the Messenger Branislav Tosic, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about this bill, I will only have to intervene, given that the president of the National Assembly, deliberately or not, misinformed the public, because the SRS candidate in Bor, Mr Branislav Rankic, with the will of the vast majority of voters and citizens of Bora, won as the president of the municipality as an SRS candidate rather than as a candidate of a group of citizens. This is seen as a major victory for the Serbian Radical Party and for Mr Branislav Rankic, as its prominent member and MP. So much for the public, and now with a few words to refer to this bill. I'll try to say something about the law in short lines, because there are other colleagues who want to talk about this law. So, before us is one of the very important laws in the area of agriculture, one of the laws that should have long been put before us, and also in the assembly procedure, and why not – probably because the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water industry obviously did not work well enough, and the hypocritical words of Ms. Ivana Dulic - Markovic, who said that such a bill should have been passed in early 1990. And even if so, the question arises why, at least since 2001, you have not put this bill on the agenda, since you and your political organization have, to a lesser or greater extent, since 2001; what has been waiting six years for this bill to be found here? After all, and as it is, this bill is dysfunctional and inapplicable, because through it a few members extend one thread, or one thing, which is that certain norms will be elaborated in more detail by sublegal acts, which means that this law has, as lawyers say, a lot of holes, that it will be inapplicable, that there will be free interpretations. The question arises, if it has waited so long and has been preparing this bill for so long, why is it not done correctly and as it should be? In addition, at the beginning of the government's mandate, we had one promise that a few dozen laws would be found behind this ministry in the assembly procedure to resolve the issue of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, and so far we have adopted three or four laws. What is the objective of this bill? So what my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group said, the goal is clear – to destroy large agricultural combinations and allow Serbian tycoons to be rich at the expense of the Serbian state. There was also talk here about a public debate on this bill, which was carried out in my impression quite shyly, semi-secretly, I would say. I was under the impression that here it was the most significant that the positive opinion on this bill was that the famous general of the lamb brigades of Zechariah Trnavcevic, through his treasonous B92 television, and that the professional public in the field of agriculture had a few questions when it came to this bill. As for concrete remarks on the bill, several things the Serbian Radical Party cannot accept. One of these is defined at the very beginning of the law, which is Article 1, which is the education of a new body, a new administrative apparatus that you baptized as a farm land administration. The Serbian Radical Party opposes an unfounded increase in the state administration. The Ministry of Agriculture has taken care of state land so far, in accordance with the internal organisation, and there was absolutely no place to educate in this economic situation a special administrative apparatus whose only job would be to organise and rent state land. In addition to spending 70m dinars of budget funds, this apparatus will only employ a few dozen party party officials who are in power and will not bring anything else to Serbia. It's a job that needs to be done, and it's illogical to establish such an organ in addition to all the existing directorates, administrations, agencies, as you baptized them, therefore, another organ. Because what jobs would the Ministry do when it transferred all its powers to such parallel institutions? Furthermore, what is very problematic concerns the fifth section of the law, which speaks about the use of agricultural land, specifically about the alienation of agricultural land in state property. The Serbian Radical Party is in principle and programmically opposed to the sale and alienation of agricultural land because it considers all of this to be national goods of invaluable importance. We offered a series of solutions. One solution is to enable renting without compensation from state agricultural land to certain institutions, so Mr Zoran Mašić, the amendment, cited the institutions: schools, professional agricultural services, social institutions, higher education institutions, colleges, scientific institutes, institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, etc. Through this law, and with this I will end, one discriminatory line is drawn, which is Article 14 which speaks of the implementation of the agricultural base, where it is said that the agricultural base of the local self-government units is achieved through an annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. The disputed position of Article 5 is Article 14 where you say that the programme referred to in Article 3, the competent authority of the local self-government unit, according to the previously obtained opinion of the Commission, which is educated by the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor, who has at least half of the members of the natural persons - farmers. This discriminatory line is the extension of the sentence – which are entered in the register of agricultural holdings in accordance with the regulation governing the entry in the register of agricultural holdings. Please, according to official records, so far no more than half of the individual agricultural producers have been registered in the register of agricultural holdings. As a result, there is no discrimination against those individual agricultural producers which have not been officially registered, so before the registration law in the register of agricultural holdings does not have an obligation, it is still on a voluntary basis. When you introduce a obligation, then a provision like this can exist in the law. As long as it is voluntary, this is not how discrimination can be made between agricultural producers who have registered and those who are not. Anyway, it's a pretty bad bill. The Serbian Radical Party tried to fix it with a series of amendments, however, the rotten tooth is very difficult to fix, it should be removed. For this reason, I propose to the minister to withdraw such a bad bill from the procedure, to take seriously the amendment of all MPs, especially the SRS, and to come out with a far better-quality bill, which will primarily benefit the state and agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27747	The People's Messenger Branislav Tosic has the word, then the People's Messenger Zoran Antić, and the People's Messenger Gordan Cabric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27748	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, Madam Minister, the proposal for a law on agricultural land is one of the very important laws in the area of economy. People who are competent and professional in this area participated in the draft law, while accepting a series of suggestions and a proposal from modern agricultural production, making sure that the law is in line with EU legislation. The public debate on this bill lasted more than a year. Agricultural land is a limited natural resource to be stored for future generations. The need for food production in the future will be increasingly pronounced. In this sense, we must have a vision today of how we will preserve and improve agricultural production. Simply put, in the future, more and more care will be taken about where we will build our houses, apartments, sports, business and other facilities. This law is designed to be clear and understandable to all who will use it in practice. Article 2 of the first Chapter covers the basic concepts used in the law, such as agricultural land, commercialisation, irrigation, deforestation, etc. Chapter II of this proposal contains planning for the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, where the content, essence and implementation of the agricultural base as a plan document adopted at the level of the Republic, the province and local self-government are spoken from Articles 5 to 14. Citizens will have opportunities to get acquainted with the agricultural base through daily and local papers. Chapter III of this proposal covers the protection of agricultural land, where Articles 16 and 17 refer to harmful materials in agricultural land. Article 18 contains anti-erozione measures. Article 22 of this Chapter reads – it is prohibited to use farmland from first to fifth class for non-agricultural purposes. Article 29 of this Chapter contains the protection of agricultural land against frost, city, fire and other elemental disasters. Chapter IV covers the organisation of agricultural land, where the members 31st to 48th talk about cohesion. Article 49 covers melliorisation. Chapter V covers the use of agricultural land, lease, transport and replacement of agricultural land. Article 61 of this chapter states that land in state property can be leased for one to 20 years to natural and legal persons, where such land cannot be leased. Chapter VI covers the information system on agricultural land. Chapter VII covers the agricultural land administration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Chapter IX is supervision, Chapter X of criminal provisions and Chapter XI are final provisions. The current law was passed in 1992, which means it has been applied for 14 years. The bill has a total of 96 members, which covers the overall problem of agricultural land. For the implementation of this law, 400 million dinars are foreseen, and revenue from the implementation of around 600 million dinars in 2007, which means that the application of this law will not cost taxpayers additionally. An even greater effect is expected in the coming years. When it comes to organic production law and organic products, it should be said that the basic principles and standards have been set by manufacturers in Western European countries, particularly in Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy and other countries. In many countries, organic production projects encourage countries and money. We have organic production in the field. It is this law that encourages and regulates organic production. The value of production without the use of chemical waste and protection products should not be particularly stressed. A decision on the disadvantage of a parcel for such production shall be taken by an authorised person from the relevant institution after air, land and water control. In order to improve organic production in the context of numerous events with us and abroad, conditions are created to educate experts in this area. A national sign for organic products shall also be introduced. It's just that everything is subject to new market requirements, where we have to find our place. DSS MPs will vote for these two laws with their coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27749	The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and the Messenger of Gordan Cabric. In case there is time, and MP Dragoslav Milkovic afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike my colleagues who were mostly talking about land law, I'd like to say a few words about this law on organic production and organic products. In general, the sector is also very interesting from the position of the SRS, because the potential for the development of this sector is very high. It is estimated that around 20% of our agricultural land can be used for this production. It's a production that's focused on exports and with a bit of government goodwill, the Ministry might be able to take a more serious step on this plan if we had in some future period. Unfortunately, this bill we have here is, I think, quite thin. There are about 30 members, with nine other members referring to some criminal provisions. All in all, quite unsaid, with a lot of discretionary rights being left to the Ministry to regulate this area in some future period. And the potentials are extremely high, as I said, not only when it comes to the profit that can be achieved by this production, but also when it comes to protecting the village, an attempt to prevent emigration from the village to the city, possibly, and a serious shift when it comes to population policy, with which our country obviously has quite a problem. I'd like to give a few information to the public and our farmers, so that in one modest way, I'm interested in this production, and then explain what the SRS didn't consider to be part of this law, and in any case, it should have been part of this law. This is that in any case healthy food, i.e. organic production, organic agriculture, a new trend in food production and that it is extremely attractive in the EU markets, that the growth of that market is exceptional, close to 20% each year, that it is most likely long-term demand growth and that the EU is unable to provide and meet its needs, manages only 50% with its own production to meet the needs for organic agriculture. Therefore, the possibility of our agriculture is high. In addition, it is profitable production, organic food prices are about 50 to 100 times the price of ordinary production. Often production costs are also at the level of classical, standard, conventional production, and yields do not have to be lower than in conventional production. So there are many reasons why only the Ministry should commit itself more seriously on this subject. We have this production at the beginning, it's about 3,000 hectares, quite little if we take into account that we're dealing with a figure of about five million hectares of agricultural land, so the possibilities are high. There is an impression that the only reason why you have actually defined yourself for this law is that you have it in the assembly procedure, primarily the EU requirement, because the EU, when it comes to accession, expects us not only to have this law, but to work a little more seriously on this organic farming sector. Unfortunately, it was the only motive for you, and all that needs to be done when it comes to follow-up measures, incentive measures for the development of organic agriculture, has been missed or there is no indication that the government and the Ministry are considering it. First of all, these are subsidies when it comes to organic farming. Everywhere in the world, it is normal for subsidies to be taken per hectare for the development of organic agriculture itself, for example, with our neighbours in Hungary, it is about 150 euros per hectare. Also, a major problem in this law will be the cost of conversion, as our agriculture is quite impoverished and this period of two to three years when it is necessary to move from classical agriculture to organic agriculture will be unsustainable for most households. If organic farming is considered primarily rural households, the areas that could make a more serious contribution than to achieve it, then the possibilities are even less, so the price of certification itself will be very high for farmers, and what you have given in the law is too little to expect any improvement in this area. I think the big problem and education of farmers is that organic agriculture needs a higher level of knowledge than classical agriculture, but that helping to establish an association, as it is done in countries in the environment and possibly helping environmental cooperatives that would gather tens to 20 households, is of great importance, and as for the ministry, there is no movement so far. The big problem in organic agriculture is inputs, seed material, plant protection products, which must follow this law. These are all the things that are necessary and how we can expect any step in this area. But that's all the ministry's been missing for years and it's not working on these jobs. It is very important for the development of organic agriculture and to help exporters, our market is also too modest to expect more serious development and some potential in the domestic market. For a foreign market, we have to have quality production, we would even have to control legally, if we wanted to build a brand of our own, to have our own specific products that would be in a larger amount, than at this point, we could go to the world market, and also strong distributors are also important to the development of this area. All in all, I would like to say that what the Ministry has given as a bill is extremely modest so that we MPs of the SRS can be satisfied. There's a lot of indiscretion and, as I said, there's no follow-up, so we can't be satisfied with this proposal. But there is hope that in some future period you will take this branch more seriously, that is, this sector of agriculture that could produce very high results, especially at the moment when we have a major external trade deficit and when we are not going to export. We're left with, unfortunately, only agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27751	Thank you, Mr Antic. The word has the People's Messenger Gordana Cabric. Here you go, Mrs. Chabric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27752	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening all day to analyses and objections to this law, both those who praise the law and those who criticize it. I agree with those who say the law should have been passed, but at the same time I can't help but wonder what it would have been like if the law hadn't been passed. At the end of 2005, the media had written about the interests of foreign corporations for the purchase of land, and of course in Vojvodina, where the largest possessions are, where the country is the most valuable and where it would be paid twice as much. By passing this law, this process is interrupted. The law decededly says that a natural or legal person who is not from the territory of the Serbian state cannot own the country. I think that's the most important aspect of this law. The second, also very important, is that local self-government can finally manage and create a strategy for the development of agriculture in its area, so that the president of the municipality and those experts on the territory will be able to organise themselves as they consider their area to be best. They will be able to plan for the next period, in five, 10, 15 years and over, to develop agricultural production, to process unprocessed and thus employ the surplus of their unemployed who we know are very many on the bureau. In this way, the gross social product is increasing, allowing agriculture to survive, but it is not just a goal of survival, the goal is economic gain. It's been a while since agricultural production was done the way our ancestors did 100 years ago. Now agricultural production must be done in a way to make profits, profits and to invest for next year. As for the commercialization, the accumulation of land and the economic aspect of togethering, I see, for example, in my municipality, the Municipality of Varvarin, in one part of my municipality is a grouped country, so the area is increased in the village of Obrež, and there are results seen after 10 and more years of commercialization. On those surfaces zero plastics and greenhouses, some got donations, some got loans, some borrowed, but agricultural production lives. As for the second part, where there is also a fertile country, where there is no compassion, we can't see this kind of progress. So, as far as this economic aspect is concerned, this way, we're going to increase the economic power of agriculture. The coast is a region, after Vojvodina, which is very important for the development of agriculture. So we cannot compare in Pomoravalj with Vojvodina, where hundreds of hectares of arable land are owned by one or several households, and we know that at the level of the Republic of Serbia there are three hectares of average. In Pomoravlje, in one of our municipalities, the average area is 17.5 acres. You can't make any production with 17.5 acres, unless someone's in that local self-government thinks smartly, so he's done a few harvests over the year, so he covers it up, so he gets a profit. As far as organic production itself is concerned, I would point out, firstly, that it is significant that it is possible in areas which are not polluted to force and develop organic production. There's our advantage because we were poor. Anyway, it sounds paradoxical, but it's now our advantage in this period. The fact that our factories didn't work was that our rivers weren't polluted either, that water was in certain parts, from certain springs was clean and could be used for organic production. Second, in these rural areas, the people are the poorest. By certification of these agricultural products, this people can appear on the EU market. What does that mean? This law is in line with EU conditions, and it is not only pro-forma, but in order to be able to sell something on the EU market we cannot go and say – an honest word, it is a healthy food; we have to have written, we have to have a certified, we have to have an atest for it and then appear and be a competitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27753	Thank you, Mrs. Chabric. Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more registered to us, before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a joint principle search, I give the word to Minister Ivani Dulic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27754	Dear MPs, both of these laws have been done by the best experts that exist in the Republic of Serbia. After that, for a year and a half, my associates and I spoke to farmers in Serbia. So we talked about the law and about what and how it can help them develop the lease market, get to the country and make progress. I am pleased that the MPs changed their minds, those who were in the morning for the combined, were in the afternoon for rural development; this is indeed a good change, and it will certainly please all farmers. Every family owner is competitive enough to mate with the combineds. Our stock fund was halved from 1992 to 2000, and agriculture fell 20% from 1992 to 2000. Last year, we have a 15% increase in tow heroes and 8% in pig growing. It's the first time livestock has recovered. Also, increased areas under vegetables, under industrial plants, sugar is our export product, oil, sunflower and soybeans, the strongest players in the region, dozens of hectares of plastics were raised and, as I said, the first time increased livestock production. We've got a lot of work to do. We can criticize everything, insult everything, spit, but it's not easy to take a step forward. This government is working really hard and has invested very much in agriculture, tens of thousands of farmers have received either loans or grants. There are no grants. All those who got the money, invested, and over the past three years, 600m euros in investment was in agriculture. Once again, in order for this law to be implemented, great work is needed. As I said in the strategy, all valuable hands are needed in Serbia and all smart heads in Serbia. If we don't implement it properly, it's all for nothing. By this law, we have shared responsibility for local self-government, for the provincial administration, for the republican administration, it is impossible for people to be incompetent everywhere. I'd like to say about organic agriculture that since 2005, we've been subsidising organic agriculture, that we've established a division of organic agriculture, that 100 euros per hectare is given to those who are in the period of conversion, that 50 million is intended for projects concerning organic agriculture. In the end, I would like to say that all those who offended any of the experts in this country, all those who offended Uncle Zechariah, insulted every good farmer in this country. If you hate, insult and humiliate this much, I believe that indeed in this country, 100% of all will vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27755	Thank you, Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a Law on Organic Production and Organic Products. Mr. Masic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, but in order not to put you in an awkward situation, because I have to go, we'll have a discussion about the details, we'll have a debate in the morning, and certainly I couldn't recognize in any way that someone, be kind, because by article 101, is entitled to replication, if it's an idea, that someone is misread, I'm not in a situation to give a word now, understand me, I have to leave the conference room because of my obligations. There is no vice president to replace me right now. That would be very incorrect, please, to ask you to speak in the morning. If it's a one-minute intervention please quickly. There's really no reason to throw. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27756	I thank you, Mr. President. I appeal to Article 93(2), as rapporteur of the committee responsible, I have the right, with your approval, to participate in the search if it is of any importance. I would also like to inform you as president, as well as all other MPs - the Committee on Agriculture has identified the last session of the four amendments as a proposal from the Committee and one more committee should be declared on these amendments. From today on, as a parliamentary group, we have a political position that we no longer participate in any committee of the National Assembly, so I ask you, as president, to inform the deputy president of the Committee and other members to gather and take a position in a timely manner. Another thing I wanted, if I've extended, I respect you as a man and I suppose you have obligations, but I can't go over what Mrs. Ivana Dulic is misusing the office of minister, I hope it won't take much longer. If someone sows hate, then you sow it here amongst the MPs, and you cry very quickly when certain things are said in your face. It's a shame for you, as a lady, to speak in this way. We did not insult Uncle Zechariah, but we said that this is the man who promotes you as a minister and a policy run by your ministry. We believe that it is unworthy of him and that there is no need for you to manage the Ministry so well and successfully, and to lead agriculture that these farmers and those who have not received the incentive funds, and those who have won, in the first subsequent elections, will vote for the SRS, and you and I will see each other after these elections, and we will look ourselves in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-12-0.u27757	Thank you. You'll all see each other. I see you all now, and I'm going to listen to what you missed when I called as a reporter to say. If necessary, we will forward these amendments to another competent committee, say for European integration, in order to make sure of what you are looking for. Thank you all for understanding. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours of debate in the principle of the 9th item of the agenda. Thank you.
