ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27563	I'm advocating article 100, when someone is insultingly expressing himself about the MP. Here's what this is about, today is journalism on those branches where it was written about by Stevan Sremac in "Zamfir's Zone". Then he says, "Here, I'll pay you a round to put him in the paper." And he says, "No, pay me two." That's how they put me in the paper, the names I once respected, and didn't ask me at all. Although I was present here and I am always available by nature, I am happy to accept all calls, and so far I have not refused any calls from journalists, any, and I was present on June 5th when this event took place. It says here that on June 5th, when there was a vote on the transfer of jurisdiction from the state union to the Republic of Serbia, I was absent, or that I was there for coffee, which is not true. I haven't had a cup of coffee since I quit smoking, so rarely when I drink coffee. I was present, but I didn't want to come here to warn people from G17, first of all, and the DSS, of some illegality, so to speak, in their ranks. Something I've been trying for a month, I've been looking for, they told me, we'll check, they checked. They said you were right. Take measures. They've been doing nothing for a month. What's this about? So, I have reason to suspect that this is either about having family ties or there are people I called party sponsors, or there's some other interest in it. So it didn't react. I would no longer abuse a pay phone here, for whatever it takes, here's the press, in the lobby, ask me everything you're interested in, I'm available. Anything you want to know, ask me when I'm here, not others to say something I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27564	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27565	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Therefore, SRS MP Zoran Krasic broke down at the session roughly violated the dignity of the National Assembly, the integrity of the Minister of Agriculture and all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, so I ask that the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Members of the National Assembly, Articles 108, 109, 110 and 112, apply the Rules of Procedure of Procedure to the SRS, and the measure is a distance from the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The measure of distance under Article 112 shall be applied for the next 20 days of the National Assembly meeting from the day of the distance, i.e. at the session at which this measure is given, if the session takes longer than 20 days of the meeting, or the work of the National Assembly. Also, in addition to the distance measure, under Rule 109, the MP who has been given the measure of distance from the session is fined at a fine of 32 thousand dinars. This is all about challenging and encouraging national impatience and hatred in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It must be prevented in this high house by our dignity, our work, our application of the Rules of Procedure, we must prevent extremism, chauvinism, primitiveism and hate language. Also, I ask that the National Assembly on this breach of the Rules of Procedure be declared in the day of the vote. I ask the Administrative Board, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make appropriate measures. I am expressing my protest because the chairman did not react to such harsh words of hatred and inciting national impatience the day before yesterday. I think things like that have to be sanctioned right away and they need to give appropriate measures. In this home and in Serbia at all, fortunately, the reaction is strong and unequivocal, and you can see who is opposed to this kind of primitiveism, this way of working in Serbia, and it is clear that the Serbian Radical Party has not fenced from this. Let it serve you honor, let the competent authorities continue to act on it. I expect that this assembly would be dignified in a further period and that everyone together would raise its reputation, that the President of the National Assembly and the Administrative Committee should express these measures as an incentive to our better work and mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27566	Mr. Albianic, you filed your demands, but I assume you meant, when you said it was sanctioned, to be punished. I'd ask you to understand the difference because sanctions mean punishment, and sanctioning approval. For the sake of clarification, you probably meant to punish yourself. The verb is exactly the opposite meaning. Here you go. I ask the MPs to treat their colleagues with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27567	Mr. Chairman, if there's anything you don't understand, let's get this straight. Due to chauvinism, national impatience, hate language, I demand that MP Zoran Krasic, in line with the Rules of Procedure, members 108, 109, 110 and 112, be punished by moving away from the session of the Serbian Parliament and fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27568	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (SRS emissaries scandal: thieves, thieves, thieves! )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27569	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was pushed by Mr. Albianic, although I received a word from the chairman, but here I went, a very strong man, he took me away. I'm not asking for an exclusion because, Mr. Chairman, I'm not asking for anything, man is a bully, but that's what it looks like to them. Since we've been listening to nonsense here for days, it's a big robbery, theft and thieving conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily G17 plus, we brought today to show you your uniform in the future. It's a uniform that Mladjan Dinkic will wear. I give it to Mr. Minister to take him to it soon, and if you miss him, this is the sound that will soon be heard of Mladjan Dinkic and the biggest thieves in Serbia. He gives away prison uniforms and handcuffs. I brought a few very serious things. Namely, as promised, criminal charges are filed today under Article 223. The Code of Criminal Procedure. It's a thief, 600 million dinars, not much for them. It's something that's common, middle quota, something they've learned about, something they've been working on for many years, but they'll be notified to the public. I brought something else. This is where they tell us about the hate speech. Today they yelled and threatened with it - murderers. They said fascists, patients. Here one of them said Natasha Jovanovic, since he is very handsome and smart, is seeking satisfaction elsewhere. Is that what you were saying? Now you're going to be amazed, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. To see who's talking to us about hate speech, about hate speech that has never been spoken of, no nation has been mentioned or anything else. See now, launched in front of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pančev, criminal charges against Bekić Zlatka of Pančev, Milos Trebinjca No 104, for the criminal offence of causing national, racial and religious hatred and impatience under Article 317(1). KZ. What's this about? At a meeting of the Municipal Committee of the Party G17 Plus, in the rooms of the party in Panchev, which discussed among other issues and the need to support the request of the Centre of NGOs in Panchev, consisting of the Roma centre "Sveta Petko" from Banatski Novi Sela and 17 other NGOs. He was reported, participating in the debate, in the presence of Ninic Marjana, the president of the NGO Roma Centre "St. Friday", said there was no need to discuss "the need for rooms for Roma and Jews" and that nobody should worry about it, since hygiene in Pancev is building a crematorium for Jews and Roma. '"I didn't know which party the man was from. (President: Mr. Wolf, please bring the end. Time's over. Mr. Chairman, you are one of the few very reasonable people, please wait just a moment. I was wondering what that man was. That man is Councilman G17 plus. Here he is on the list, on the committee list. You'd like crematoriums for Jews and Roma. I'm sorry, please, I think the citizens of Serbia should know something like this. Everything has been signed, certified, by the lawyer's office of Zvonimir Sykov, is the signatories of the company Vojvodina Israel, Shalom Tora, Pancheva, Tomislav Becker, represented by Zvonimir Sikov, that you do not think that something has been invented or written just like that or that it has anything to do with the Serbian Radical Party. The witnesses are also from G17 plus, which is mentioned here. (President: Mr. Wolf, please bring the end. ) Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it would be nice not to give up the great cost of Mladjan Dinkic, but rather to give him this uniform, to go where he belongs, to have a nice people free from thieving, primitives, chauvinism and everything you talk about every day, and the worst of all in Serbia, because you will not scare the whole of Serbia, you will not scare the citizens of Serbia, you will not scare the MPs of the SRS. We came alone today. You brought in your activists today, all 33 activists, as many as you have at Serbian level, all of them, with family members, in front of the Assembly, to do something about radicals. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]] We ourselves, without bodyguards, security, came, passed and showed you where you belong and we will always do so, and the time will come when the rule of law is established in Serbia and there will be many of you standing there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27570	National MP Milorad Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27571	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is the biggest disgrace of Serbian political history.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27572	Mr. Albianic, please state a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27573	You insult the dignity of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I ask that we declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukic, who insults the dignity of the National Assembly, insults the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I asking to be punished? Because it's not worth it to you, Mr. Wolfie, it's not worth lying about a congregation pay phone. You've got a poor, miserable way of saying that you're a thief here. You stole everything in Serbia, and you stole our country's future, which is the biggest theft in Serbia's history. How can you not be ashamed? How can you, which are characterized by darkness, blackness, war, crime, death, murder, violence, poverty, poverty, dictatorship, torture, freedom, hyperinflation, robbery, demagogy, insult, unculture, filth and everything else, not ashamed to say anything like that here? Enough crime, enough lies, enough deception in this Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, it's amazing that they teach here people whose banking stars were Dafina and Jadda. It's amazing that this is where people who were in power say when the dinar was destroyed and it was hyperinflation. It is amazing that this is how parliament is humiliated by people who promised three dinar bread. It's amazing that this is where the people who brought the citizens to the brink of existence come to us. It's amazing that we're being told here by people who've been handing out electricity and heating stamps. It's a shame that people here talk about when they came to power, they only assigned apartments to themselves. It's terrible that this is how people whose leader said he didn't feel sorry for killing Slavko Curuvija. It is terrible that in front of the public Serbia is addressed by people whose leaders threatened with rusty spoons and guns. A party that choked the freedom of the university and destroyed the media in Serbia. It's terrible that all of this is being told by people whose MPs fought in parliament, ripped off microphones, spilled the President of the Assembly with water, but we see it all today in the form of the expression of the chauvinism of national impatience and hatred. The people of Serbia have had a lot of lies, a lot of SRS deception, a lot of SRS lies, a lot of cheap radical demagogy, and that's what democratic Serbia said -- enough, that's the end, and it showed you the real face of Serbia and all the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27574	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we obviously can't easily return to the agenda, I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After break – 11.55.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I give my word to Parliamentarian Saša Vitosevic, and to Tomislav Nikolic, then Meh Omerovic and Alexander Vukic, I have only two requests to the MPs. It is one thing to treat one another with respect, for it safeguards the dignity of both the congregation and our dignity. The second request is that we try to get back to the agenda as soon as possible, this important item of the agenda, the sixth point -- the proposal for a ID bill, we approach that principle debate and our basic business that we're here for. Thank you for understanding. The first has the word of the People's Messenger Sasa Vitoshević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27576	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, reporting under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." We have heard the call of the chairman, however, most MPs on my right for many years remain deaf to calls not only by this chairman, but also by the public to make this parliament a dignified home. Of course, all the MPs of the SRS, and the public is a witness to that, are full of the mouth of another's thief, are full of the mouth of other people's crime, and of course, as many people's sayings tend to hide behind it their thieves and their crime. I'd also like to ask Mr. Wolfiche not to yell at the National Assembly speaker, we all hear him very well. It's not hygienic to use such expressions...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27577	Please, I've just asked you to treat your colleagues with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27578	... For the sake of preserving the integrity of the messengers of the people, for he is also a messenger of the people. Mr. Vukic mentioned in his presentation our former member, G17 plus, who had this chauvinistic outburst. I'd just like to say that this unfortunate man has already been kicked out of G17 plus and he's been prosecuted. Gentlemen, I expect you to follow our example and to throw your member and MP Zoran Krasic out of the party and publicly fence yourself against his expressions. Don't defend him anymore, since I heard in the hallway that he thanked you for defending him. Mr. Vukic tried to translate Mr. Krasic's words at yesterday's press conference. Apparently, Mr. Vukic is developing a new professional ability of translators. Unfortunately, it didn't work out for him because he can't translate Serbian into Serbian. It is clear, and there is a record, and the public has clearly and decidently heard what Mr Krasic said about this pay phone and what kind of chauvinistic outflows he had. Of course, it's not just about chauvinist spills. Today we see other spills in the congregation. There are various props from sexy shops that show up in the National Assembly. Again, it offends the dignity of this National Assembly. Unfortunately, since the SRS is very concerned about the citizens of Serbia, the money spent from the budget, I would just like to remind myself that every minute of the session of this National Assembly is paid by our citizens of Serbia. MEPs G17 plus, DSS MPs have been working hard and have worked hard over the past few years to make this assembly very rational in spending money, and therefore they have not responded, so they have not replicated meaningless, pointless and irrational statements, speeches and amendments to the SRS. But, gentlemen, since you've gone beyond all measures, unfortunately I'm going to have to spend a few more dollars on Serbia's citizens to answer some SRS charges when it comes to thieving, so we're going to try to prove what kind of thieves we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27579	Please, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27580	Gentlemen, yesterday you threw dust into the public with charges of a criminal contract that was concluded between NBS and TV B92.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27581	Mr. Vitoshevich, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27582	I'm bringing the end. I just remind you that you have damaged a much larger amount of Serbian citizens by giving yourself 30 German marks per month by one cultural and national good - the Master in Zemun, for 30 years. Gentlemen, explain the logic and the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27583	Mr. Vitoshevich, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27584	When it comes to thieving, where your cheek is, gentlemen, that in the greatest crisis in which our country was also assigned to yourself. So, in 22.12.1998, the government, to remind you, was then in the government, Tomislav Nikolic assigned an apartment of 186 square meters in Bulevar Lenin. That apartment was bought. That's what Mr. Nikolic will tell you. Then, 22.12. In 1998, the government assigned its own apartment to Alexander Vukic, a 117 square - square area. Look, it's been a hard time, you couldn't live. The apartment was also bought. Have Mr. Wolf answer how much he's bought.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27585	Mr. Vitoshevich, I asked you to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27586	On the same date, Todorovic was assigned an apartment on Prote Mateja Street, also bought. Sir... awarded an apartment on Svetozar Markovic Street, also bought. The finance ministry, a budgetary inspection, found that during 2000 it was from the budget, mainly from ministries run by senior SRS officials at the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27587	Mr. Vitosevic, would you be kind enough to bring an end to your exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27588	... They amount to 400,000, 300,000, 500,000, 100,000 and 100,000 again for the purchase of books, and that money is paid to the SRS. Also to remind, it is, as they like to say, the third man of the SRS, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27589	Mr. Vitoshevich, did you hear me? I warned you that you were out of time. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27590	Mr. Todorovic was sentenced to prison for counterfeiting and abuse of authority in the economy, that he was also convicted of a car accident with fatalities. The second district attorney's office is chasing him because he suspected he damaged the state budget for 26.5 million dinars at the time he was the minister of traffic, because the funds were meant for regular and safe traffic, and we know what kind of railway he was using back then to buy people's apartments. So, gentlemen, you took money from the railroad to buy yourself apartments. It's the SRS, so she takes care of the citizens of Serbia. Gentlemen, everything you've earned in private, you've earned in politics. Which one of you has the argument to show your biography for this speaker? You've been doing politics for years. The honor of Mr. Vukic, who was once the manager of the pool and was the famous minister of information, and only to remind the public, was the minister who turned our media into black, who arrested journalists, who charged dragon penalties to the media for verbal deliction, and today their mouths are full of verbal delinquents.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27591	Please bring the end of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27592	Gentlemen, this is the SRS. (President: Can you hear me? ) Do not throw dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens and do not show false concern for Serbian citizens. You spend their money here, you propose pointless amendments and you show bully behavior in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27593	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27594	Now I understand why you kicked this guy out of the federal government. So these handcuffs we brought in today aren't from the sex store. We're not saying Dinkic is a whore. We're saying he's a thief. (Applause, shouting and banging at the benches of SRS MPs, who then scandal: thieves, thieves, thieves.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27595	I'm asking the members of the SRS to allow their own president of the Parliament Club to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27596	Although I'd appreciate it more if I knew he was in the business. Better an honest whore than an unfair politician. With respect to bread, many of you will give the bread free of charge as soon as these elections pass. In prison. I belong to those you say spread hate speech. [[Applause]] For you, we were the black part of the red and black coalition. When you tell us we're fascists, we're dark, we're war, we're sad, we're desperate, we're miserable, you're saying it out of love, and we have to put up with it, we're SRS and we have to endure everything, because we don't have B92, we don't have "Today", we don't have "Time", we don't have NGOs. We only have 50% of the voters. On behalf of which you say Serbia has had enough of the SRS. What are you talking about? To the election. If Serbia is fed up with the SRS, then we will not enter parliament. Let's go to elections to see what's enough for Serbia, does it want you to keep running the state like this or is it looking for a change? It's not my fault that we're the only change right now and we could go on vacation and wait for the election, you'll be working for us in that time. You're spreading the idea that the SRS is the only authority that can get Serbia out, because you're all together and we're still sinking with you. It is, when you tell us all those black words, we need to bend, stick ourselves in the bench, is it, we need to hide our children, our wives? Now, you attribute to me that I'm uncultured, uncivilized, uneducated. [[You should be ashamed of yourself.]] I'm really throwing it out of your bench, but you're throwing it to me, too, so don't let the sheep use the goat. If we're the same, you keep quiet, I'll keep quiet. Since you don't realize that you're doing the same things as we are, you're only less successful, because you have no arguments, you're hitting an institution, you're hitting an SRS, an institution, and you couldn't do anything to us. Yes, we are farming, and you who have something to boast about, such as Mr. Vitosevic, do not attack us, please, we are weak physically. (President: Again I ask the MPs of the people to indeed appease their passions. ) National MPs who have successful biography, as Mr. Vitosevic, and I could run a private company, Mr. Vitosevic, that my minister is in the party, so that my company's "Future" from Curuga that 13-14 million dinars. That's what you G17 guys do, that's how you do it. You've been Minister of Agriculture, you've been chased there, you've established a private firm, the Ministry of Agriculture in Serbia pays you, you'll tell me why he's paying you, he's paying you. (President: Mr. Nikolic, you've exceeded your time, please bring an end to your presentation. Yes, I've run out of time for the replica of Albianic, and now I'm speaking a line to this one, as this one is called. This morning you gave me a welcome in front of the Serbian Parliament, it was so nice, on our part nice, on your part very rude and bold, but just one thing to know. Whenever you do this for us, there will always be more deputies of the SRS than you have citizens. And let's just clear up who's defending Krasic. We have no reason to defend him. You need to be defended from uneducated. For you, the uprising is a nationality, for you, Mr. Albianic, all Croats are Ustashas, or all Ustashas are Croats, for me they are not. I don't like Ustasha. If all Croats feel hurt, it's not my fault. The Ustashas destroyed the Serbian people, and you know it, and the Ustasha ideology of Franjo Tudjman destroyed the Serbian people, and day and day, we have the consequences of it, and today Serbs die of cancer, of these most severe diseases because they are displaced from their fires from Croatia and no one is letting them return. And what does this have to do with Ivan Dulic-Markovic? Because there's a passport in Croatian? Excuse me, please, you want to be minister of the Serbian government, you have to have a Serbian passport, so you can't have an Australian passport. You can be both a Serb and a Hungarian, and a Romanian, and a Russian, and a Croat, and a Muslim and an Albanian, but you have to have a Serbian passport, so I guess that's basic. So they brought you from all sides, from Tungusia, with foreign passports in 2001. Where are these ministers with double passports now, where is that poor Novakovic, who was the Minister of Energy? Bought half of Belgrade. That's what we fight against, that's what we'll always fight. You guys keep fighting with us here, it's the easiest thing for us to do. We get points when we get attacked by a company called G17 plus and you get it very well. You can fight for votes now within the coalition with some other parties. I saw your head of the National Office there, he was a representative of the president of Serbia in that hepening. You may be looking for it now, but there's no such vote for 50%. A poor country with more than 50% vote for a party such as G17 plus or DS. A political party that wants to rule Serbia in its programme must have love for Serbia, love, and not hate. (President: Mr. Nikolic, please bring the end of your exposure. Here I am, truly sorry, I will not be impertinent or rude, such as the predecessors of G17 plus. One thing you know, you're more hateful than JUL in the Serbian people, and that's a great success.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27597	The word has a folk MP Meho Omerovic, then Mr Albianic, then Vladimir Homan. I'm sorry, first he has the word Meso Omerovic. Mr. Omerovic, you do not understand, Mr. Vukic protestes that he has a word before Milosevic Albianic, and you are indisputable in priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27598	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if there's any need to remind which member of the Rules of Procedure I'd like to call. It is a shame to sit here in the Serbian Parliament today. Please, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, inform the President of the Assembly, if that is still Predraga Markovica, to urgently schedule consultations with the heads of Parliament and to interrupt this session. Please, because of us in this room, and mostly because of the citizens of Serbia who have been watching us since 11.10 p.m. I pray that in this way we honor what we have all been calling upon for an hour and a half, which is dignity in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27599	Mr. Omerovic, I will accept your proposal. I thought we'd take a break, you'd get a word in, so Mr. Albianic, so there'll be a break, just meeting with the heads of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. It is quite reasonable that Mr. Omerovic's proposal that we try to calm this situation down.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this isn't a suitcase, that one of yours, it doesn't have 100,000 euros here, and there's not even 13.5 million of this over-priced thing that just went out to hold our vacuum. I have to teach you something, every shirt from The Hague, an honorable Serb who has not betrayed his country, is much better than this thieving shirt that belongs to you and that you will receive when it comes to the change of power, not because it threatens political opponents, but because it is the law and justice that requires. I have to get out, and this is what they told me that some of the G17 plus the rest, the phantom, you see, this is how they got into the People's Bank in time, you see, it's just for the eyes. This is proof to you, Mr. Minister, of what they were breaking into the National Bank, that you're in your sight. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no money in this case, but there are 788 pages, criminal charges and G17 plus thieving. So, since we've established, as this overpriest said, 13.5 million you stole, 13.5 million you stole from a private firm from your over-priced minister, so you're going to be chasing us for a hate speech. That way, you'll be too fair to rule Serbia. You won't, too fair, rule, because the people will never again, the citizens of Serbia will not be such thieves as you. I have to tell you, this here is, since I got this this morning, I didn't end up in the matter, I see this is an international criminal group, led by Mladjan Dinkic, now the finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] This joint crime group, you see, there's both English and Greek here, I don't know what languages, wherever they were, they were just doing one job, just stealing and stealing. As for that ranting, sir, you were a minister, you don't say, "Wolf is yelling," but "Wolf is yelling." I didn't start yelling. You were supposed to be taught in the second grade, the illiterate former minister, and I don't know what you are. How many years did you study, an expert, 11 years and two months of study? Eleven years and two months, and he became an expert. Where this 13.5 million goes, Mr. Minister, to a private firm. How does G17 give its most prominent members 13.5 million, under what law, by what criteria? In order not to be irresponsible, I'm a correct man, yesterday B92, to my astonishment, although it's always anti-Serb and anti-radical, were less incorrect than most others, so they let part of the other side go. But don't let it be unsaid, and I'll answer them and you to this today, since we're serious about it. Namely, you were talking about "Magistrate." Well, you're in power. If we've done anything, arrest us immediately, hang us on the terraces, do whatever you want. What are you making up all the time? You know, you have a court ruling in your regime, which speaks of "Magistrate." Why don't you appeal to that verdict? You don't know, Mr. illiterate former minister, the verdict says there's no problem and we didn't do anything, that we're not responsible, but you're not familiar with that verdict. (Chairman: Mr. Vukic, I beg your respect that you treat your colleague. But I have to ask, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, if I've proved what a man has spoken, whether I'm right in language and grammar, tell me. Yes, Mr. Vice President, what do we do? (President: Mr. Wolf, I don't mean to interfere with your discussion at all, but I only ask with respect that you treat your colleagues, nothing more. I deal with great respect. So, what's this about? All the political parties in Zemun then had the right at the same price to rent a business space, your firm was not yet established, so it did not exist, but some other political organisations existed then and at the same price used the business space, and these are political organisations. And you are, Mr. Ex-Minister... I've studied a little less than him, one two and a half times less, but I can't learn as much in so few years as for 11. Anyway, about B92, that's what we're gonna... (President: Mr. Wolf, please bring to an end your discussion. Take it easy, he talked for 15 minutes, you didn't want to interrupt him. (President: Please, you have been an MP for a long time and you know that we must respect the Rules of Procedure. There's no problem, I want to explain this to you about B92. Namely, they said, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, that they had invested two million euros, thus entrenched the space. Mr. Albianic said yesterday it was a normal contract. That's not true. I have a contract, so I'll read it to you -- the tenant made it possible for the tenant, in this case B92, to put all the costs into the lease and in that sense not to pay the rent for as much as he did. So yesterday I said that we don't even count on it, that it's all in the best order, that we don't even talk about how much it counts, why it's necessary for the National Bank, etc., that we don't talk about the relationship between the management of a single party with commercial tobacco television, just to talk about this, just to talk about business: for 6,672,000 euros, the state is damaged, six million dinars on one thing alone. Now we've seen 14 million were damaged only by what she gave, as this former minister is called, given him 14 million to the company "Future" from Curuga, because it's fair when given to companies from G17 plus. I don't think there's a need to yell, I'm going out to talk politely, I'm talking loudly, and yelling, it would hurt me so much, right to tell you, it can't do without anesthesia, it doesn't occur to me to do and to do it. In the end, one serious thing to look at, which has nothing to do with party petty disputes. Take a look at this case from Panchev. Did anyone ask for a G17 plus ban at the time? It's not. You know why you're looking for a SRS ban, and you realize there's nothing to it, and do you know why you're asking? You're looking because the only chance you're going to get into parliament, and with an all-out 3% census, is to throw half the people out and shut down, because 50% vote for the SRS. I need to tell you right now, we in every place...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27601	Mr. Wolfie, I beg you to bring the end again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27602	I'm finishing up, Mr. Vice President, you're a very rational, serious and reasonable man. I mean this, honestly, I mean it. Mr. Mihailovic is a very reasonable and rational man. So, the crematorium for Roma and Jews isn't the same, my dear friend, it's not the same. It's not for disfellowshipping from the party, it's for not knowing what, but calling someone in the ideological sense of Ustashas. I can be a translator, I can speak several languages, I can speak several foreign languages, and I can be a translator, it's not a problem, it's not a shame to be one. I've had this accident or luck and living outside the borders of this country, so it's not my problem. I have to tell you, I've never heard of anything, except in your party, that someone's in favor of crematorium for Roma and Jews. I've never heard that before. Such darkness, such ink never occurred to anyone in Serbia. It's the most serious thing possible. In the end, I want to calm the members and supporters of the SRS, now I want to talk about one thing, which is that they don't worry, they don't have to come to Belgrade, they don't have to go anywhere, we go out with these at the end, we beat them and we always beat them, we beat them in the next election, we free Serbia from thieving and crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause SRS]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27603	One moment, Mr. Albianic, I assume you'll leave the order to the President of the Assembly, Mr. Markovic, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27604	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for thanking you, Mr. Albianic, because you all know, despite the incredibly ridiculous statements, as you know, the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit stupidity, that the President of the National Assembly may sit in the seat of the chairman and then act. That is why I thank you for allowing me from this pay phone to call on what you have talked so nicely about all the previous hours by relying on the law, calling on the state of Serbia and calling on the Rules of Procedure and dignity. I don't like it not to apply to anyone who speaks for what he stands for. I'll give the chairman a chance to remind me. I see you have the information that you're taking from this pay phone to each other about apartments, about money, about wages, about privileges. Great. I'm talking about private life. Remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27605	Go on, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27606	I don't get paid here, I don't have a state apartment, I didn't take it, I have mine in a 30-square basement, but I have this country. You have one, too. You have a way, and you know it well, just sometimes we all forget about the fight, because it's hard for us, and it's hard for us, because no one can do it alone. But we have to make a deal in this country. Of course I thank all the vice presidents who run the session today, because I'm solving problems that concern both my children and your children. I solve them practically, because it can't be a vacuum at any time. You saw a few days ago, some people yelled from this pay phone -- lived Serbia, let's do something now, and get out. They're out. Many of you have just forgotten the order, and I'm sure they know it and they want to respect it. I have to sign a letter right now, and I've been waiting for him upstairs, which concerns the decision this congregation has made. We must, in order to continue to have a chance to secure the state, take over and continue our obligations to the Council of Europe within two hours. There are rules. It's the law. I don't want to, and I don't think you want the state either, but I was driving an unregistered car, and I guess you were driving an unregistered car, and you didn't endanger anyone, because you're a good driver. You can convince your family and everything that you're a good driver. You won't commit any offense, let them take your word for it. But try to get out of the country, try to exercise some right based on that vehicle that's not registered. You won't be able to. It's got to be registered. That's what you're all sitting here for, too, to determine that procedure and act accordingly. Now we're doing it, and part of the law that's on the agenda, and you're looking for them. Mr. Masic is, I guess, around here somewhere, I don't see him right now, but you've invited me from this booth, as president, to intervene to send a law on agricultural land as soon as possible, because as an expert on agriculture, you know how important this is to citizens. We're delaying that start right now. You're all, you know, you have to report to your parties in the end to which they're going to turn to the citizens and say, of course, here's the identification, a new ID card, but it can't until it's voted here. When I was here in 1999, and then I was here and I was fighting for my country, I'm not the only one and I don't have to honor those who are doing their job, and I hope everyone is ready to do their job, I watched a Macedonian site, Macedonia has already been singled out, and on that site, with the dictionary, which I've heard here today, came up with different ideas, why they haven't been bombed before, and these others say, which they don't get up and beat them. It's all like that. Then every ten minutes someone was involved in that forum, there was only one sentence, and let's think about the lens. I'll call you, as suggested by an experienced MP, and I'll invite the heads of Parliament to talk. If he doesn't make it, and I'm afraid he won't, because the whirlwind is big, I'll call you, and think about the lens, and we'll continue on Tuesday. Thank you very much, and I would like to interrupt the session by the chairman. Thank you. (Verica Radeta, from place: A until Tuesday B 92)
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27607	Thank you. One moment, Mr. President, in your office, let the heads of Parliament come immediately and we will try, indeed, to make a reasonable deal. The session will continue as soon as that deal is made in half an hour. So, at 1:00 p.m., it's a follow-up. [[After break – 13.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we move to the 6th item of the agenda, the proposal for a ID, the word is the President of the National Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27609	I would like first in front of the public, which follows this transmission and which was probably upset, but in front of all of you and the media who are following, to thank the representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who are aware of how much their MPs, how much their parties and citizens represent, are hurt to each other and, of course, by retaining the right to exercise exceptional responsibility, I thank everyone once again, for the needs of the state of Serbia and its citizens, for which they will compete in the future, if of course the state ensures stability, and this kind of agreement guarantees that people in Serbia are able to argue, but knowing what they are, and that they are national representatives, and that they agree. Of course, the session will now continue to be discussed in principle according to the agreement of all. Once again, I thank you all for your responsibilities. It's important that we know that we can make a deal and that we will be able to do it safely and in the future. Thank you all, and thank you, Mr. Mihailovich, for helping me in my work in these moments of a large number of small duties. Thank you on behalf of everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27610	As I was informed at a meeting with the presidents of the parliamentary groups that they had been declared to have withdrawn their demands, we continue to work. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC CARD (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27611	Dear Vice President, the esteemed People's MPs, today we have a law that has a mostly technical character ahead of us. However, it is a very important law because it regulates an area that has not been regulated for several decades. In fact, the matter of ID cards in the Republic of Serbia was regulated by the Law on Fundamental Data for the 1973 ID card and the 1974 Personal Card Act. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia still serve a personal card that was introduced more than 30 years ago to prove their identity. So, after more than 30 years, Serbia brings new legislation in the field of ID cards and thus opens and creates the necessary legal assumptions to introduce a new, modern and functional electronic identification document that will regulate this law. The existing ID card does not satisfy the latest trends in this area, which is that it is fast, that it is an accurate and reliable identification of individuals. The identification of individuals is of great importance, above all, in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against terrorism and other forms of criminal activity which represent an international problem and which therefore necessarily implies international co-operation between competent national authorities. The introduction of a new ID card will also lead to something, which is the cleaning of the database. I have to say, most likely, there are a number of documents that have been duplicated, and this kind of ID card will also contribute to the exact identification of the voter lists. The introduction of a modern electronic ID card brings into line with world standards, with Interpol, Europol, European Union recommendations, which is one of the preconditions for our integration into European integration. A new ID card would contribute to the modernisation and promotion of the organisation and method of work of state authorities, local self-government authorities and public services. Now I'm going to say very briefly what are the most significant changes made by the new law. But before I move on to the most significant changes, first I must stress that this law was in the procedure before and passed the government procedure before the referendum in Montenegro, so that later, when it comes to certain amendments, wherever the state union, or the citizenship of Serbia-Montenegro, writes, we will replace it with the words "Serbia". And what I want to point out, and that's going to be said later, but in the light of the law, it's very significant that no one will be harmed. In fact, we have foreseen a new member who will be the addition of this law, which is Article 32, that Serbian-Montenegron citizens who are resident in Serbia, who do not have Serbian citizenship, will be subject to the provisions of this law and for the longest five years from the date of entry into force. This means that whoever is a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro now, or was, will be able to use his ID card for the next five years, which is the general deadline for replacing identification documents. What are the most significant changes made by the ID law? The first is that the right to a ID will have all persons over 16 years of life, who are citizens of Serbia and who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or citizens of Serbia living abroad. The right to an ID has also been extended to citizens over 10 years of age, actually to children. In fact, so far, the right to a personal ticket for these categories of citizens has been derived from their citizenship, however, has been exclusively linked to a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which has been abandoned according to the proposed solution. This is quite understandable since the identity card assumes the function of the primary identification document, which is a assumption for the issue of other secondary identification documents. So, it's going to be the basic document from which they're going to go or from which they're going to extract all the other data: the travel document, the driver's license, the gun list and the like. When moving the age limit to issuing an I.D. from the current 18 to the 16 years, it was borne in mind that some rights were already acquired by 15 years of life, the right to work, the establishment of a working relationship, and that the border in terms of crime was moving and that more and more young people were, in fact, children, perpetrators of the most serious crimes. All citizens over the age of 16 would receive a personal card at the age of five, and those under 16 would be given two years and no later than the end of the month in the calendar year when they are 16 years old. In the form of a personal card, some personal data will be visible, and many data will be contained in the chip, so that their possible change will not be required to issue a new ID card. The ID card will look about the same as the identification card, or whatever you're used to, with it being very protected, all data are actually tripplied, and written, and contained in this electronic form, and in this number. Its security, the security of this data, is being reported in fact by three essential elements. It's a photo, a fingerprint and an electronic signature. Everything that's written on it is also on this chip. Maybe some more information. This chip is protected from abuse and serves only to e-read all data on the ID card. As I said, issuing a ID no longer binds to the residence, but will be able to obtain a ID card anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is significant and what makes one of the newspapers that we have put into this law, and at the request of the religious communities and the minister of religion, is in Article 10 that a person who, according to nationality, religion or folk customs, wears a hat or scarf, as an integral part of a costume, or clothing, can be photographed with these features, in accordance with the regulations in the manner of taking biometric data. The cost of issuing a new ID card will be very low, almost at the level, if not cheaper than the current ID card. What's significant, and with that I would end this exhibit of mys, these are the advantages of this document. What are the advantages of this document? This is the elimination of data differences in documents and data contained in various records. What's in the ID will be what it is. Creating a dynamic document; it will be very easy, without new printing, without destroying, issuing another form, to change certain data. Protection of the privacy of citizens; no one unauthorized to have insight into the contents of the personal data of citizens, i.e. data stored on the document cannot be misused. The possibility of counterfeiting and abuse of the document itself and the process of issuing the ID card is completely reduced. It's in the shortest lines what characterizes the new document. Namely, this document doesn't have any bar code, no special number, there's no way to read documents off of it, it's completely protected. After this document, there will have to be another law, a law on travel documents, where we will have to provide for a new travel document and its protection, but on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27612	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yes, an authorised SPS representative, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27613	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, and distinguished associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not say that the law is merely technical. He needs to secure a few things and allow me, I'll take the reverse order of what's common. Chapter IV, on the last page of the bill, it is said - no additional funding is required for the implementation of this law in the Republic budget. That's relatively true. In order for this law to be adopted and applicable, major procurement of technical systems in the MUP was necessary. Let me remind you of that purchase. Somewhere in 2002 or 2003, it seems to me, Minister Dusan Mihailovic signed a contract with Motorola. It seems to me that in this story is the famous Cizelj, which provides great equipment, hardware and software, large computers, matches, decoders and anything else that is necessary and seems to me to be worth $20m or euros in total. I'm not sure if that's the level of value. We were then reminding that it was a major procurement, that it was a violation of the law, that one ministry had no right, in accordance with the budget and budget business law and the Treasury Act, to owe the budget in the coming years, which was the case here. So, since we're MPs and we're dealing with this business, it's my duty to say it. I don't understand whether this equipment is good or not, whether or not it should have been, I just want to point to that information. This was discussed in the press and was said on other occasions on the Committee on Security and Defence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that today's minister, Mr. Jocic, was at one point the chairman of this assembly committee. So it is true that at this point this is not a necessary budget, but it is true that citizens will have certain costs, which will not be too large, but will be. In addition to the release of fees for the replacement of ID cards, new identification documents have been introduced. This is about introducing an integrated automated system for the personalisation of identification documents. It can implode what Serbia can do at the moment in this way to arrange an important area. I just want to remind you that I.D. is not a mandatory document in all states. There is no ID card in the Nordic countries, there is no ID card in Australia and Canada, in some other countries there are areas, and on the basis of these ID cards no social, health and other protection rights are regulated. There's a practice here, so someone doesn't think I'm advocating a different concept. I want this opportunity to say that there are different opinions about this. Let me put it in a few sentences. A few days ago, I received two young men. They are oriented in terms of national romanticism, human rights. It's about two great young people. One of them is the winner of the Milos Crnjanski Award. So it's obviously about exposed people, who wanted to point out to me the possibility of possible abuses when this law was passed and when this system came to life. I just want to bring up some of their concerns and expect answers about it, because we don't do anything secret, we talk to citizens every day. When I estimate that something is of value, then in this place, and this is where we should say it, that's what I'm saying. Otherwise, they were very motivated, they made one book, different discs, they collected various texts, etc. So I don't read what their basic assumption is, I'm just asking Mr. Minister and distinguished associates: is it possible that this identification document becomes the subject of abuse? Is it possible, without knowing who owns a personal document like this, to change bases? Is it possible to read remotely what's in the chip on this identification document? So, did possible abuse kill any sense? You know there used to be a name that's so-called. The famous Udjekt of all knew everything, that there were tons of files on each of Serbia's citizens on the shelves, that they had written all kinds of things, etc. and that such highly sophisticated equipment would eventually create the possibility for hackers and others who deal with the various areas they provide, based on the knowledge they possess, to commit abuses, therefore, to bring a citizen into a difficult and unpleasant position, and that he has no idea about it. That's very important. I remind you that if we adopt this law, one biometric continent is rounded up and based on this identification document, it means, based on the fingerprints, the photos, the signatures, you can know a lot about a man. I wouldn't talk about this any further. I'm asking for an answer. Because, in some members, Article 28, which treats the use of data, reads: "The competent authority may provide the data from the records to state and other bodies and organisations, as well as legal and physical persons, under the following conditions," and is then stated correctly. So the law ensures that there is no abuse. I'm just asking if, technically, in terms of software reliability and equipment, it's possible for citizens to be guaranteed, I'm looking for a very explicit answer, that it can't be entered into the bases owned by the police? The next question that is very important to me: are these databases available to anyone else without the knowledge of the police? So, is there any kind of center of Motorola anywhere in the world or anyone else that can get into these databases or are these data being used in an unauthorized way? It's a very important question for me as a citizen. I wanted to commend Article 10's last position. There is, the minister said this here, a long-standing requirement for one number of Serbian citizens, who because they belong to certain religious communities, or they are religious officials, or some other category of citizens who need to be in the photograph, which is on this identification document, with a scarf, with a cap, with some other mark that is an integral part of their profession, or in some way reflects their religious membership. I remind you that it's customary for SPC to enter a church without a hat, but this custom is not applicable to women, that female members of the Muslim religion are seen as one of the very delicate procedures. In this regard, it is important to provide all of these people, in accordance with personal rights, civil or religious freedoms, with a photo that is common to these people on the identification document. So, in that sense, the law is good. This morning, I asked a joke if it meant that a hillbilly from Shumadia had the right to take a picture with a spoon? If there is, I welcome it, although I must say that there is a custom in Serbia for the hat to be removed before power. Whether it's humility or tradition, I don't know. It enters the court without a hat, into rooms in which it communicates in any way with the state of people taking off their hats. Also, what I'm saying is it's very important that these data can't be misused. I recall, in the past elections for this parliament, a large number of municipalities have experienced direct abuse of data, parent data, from the medical protocol, from the police, from the employment fund, or the state employment organisation. I'm not the subject of criticizing them today, I just want to say, I've been talking about it by analysing the election results, that it was, that many parties participated in the elections by making several times less votes than the number of signatures needed, that these signatures included candidates from other parties, that there was a very large abuse. I want to believe that by adopting this law, it won't be possible anymore. If you want the data, I can tell you very precisely, but then it could be an inconvenience for some of my colleagues here and I won't do it, it's not my intention today. It is my intention to prevent, to prevent all of us from happening together, that no one, without the knowledge of the citizen, can take his personal data and use it as if he had given consent to it. So it's not a minor question. Here, these are some of the thinking I have about it. I want to believe that by passing this law, we will eliminate these fears, which I have spoken here either as my own or as those who have spoken to me. I want to believe that by adopting this law, first of all, based on these computer biometric analyses, some of which are hard to come by today will be arrested. So, fingerprints can be searched this way at random and I believe, if we catch one thief by passing this law, that this fear of mine isn't worth it, the people would say, not even a scrawny Bob, I apologize. But it's my duty to say everything because this is where we need to talk about everything. So, in that sense, and I end up, honest citizens shouldn't have any trouble with that, and if this wants to be a pain in the ass for those whose craft is not honorable, then that's why I'm looking forward to it. Thank you very much. The SPS will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27614	Thank you. The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27615	I would like to thank the MP who has asked these questions that are causing some confusion. First, let me say about what's called remote reading. This isn't the document, this chip just as a chip represents one memory, a mere memory on which all this data that's in law and beyond has no other data. This I.D. can't get into personality databases that are held somewhere else in front of the competent authorities. That's the first one. There are some electronic documents, a new era of documents such as an electronic passport, which are broadcast and which can be read remotely after entering a specific program, i.e. by typing a certain code. That's not what this document has. There's nothing you can do, he's completely safe, and a lot more abuse can be done with the current ID card than with this document, and there's nothing other than you can do and sometimes on the side of abuse this document. As for this first question, I have to make a certain partial correction. You said about 20m euros, however, since contracts were concluded three years ago, the price of obtaining these documents was 98m euros, 98,174.308 euros. I'm not going into whether this kind of money should have been given, but it was simply bought then, three years ago, all so I can say freely that a certain portion of the Balkans could be supplied, that we could be producers of these documents. It's been bought, and it hasn't actually been treated at all how it's going to start producing this, whether there are objects to personalize these personal documents. You can't do this at every facility, you need a special facility to rise, there have to be special conditions. All data must be entered by the Ministry of the Interior. However, equipment has been obtained that the MUP must, for example, engage, and that is a problem that I somehow have to get out of if it comes to life while I'm the Home Secretary, who organizes the production. It takes 300 people to hire who have no or no contact with what is the responsibility of the MUP, and they need to produce this document. There, just for the sake of the public and for the correction of this question of yours. There's a lot of companies, this one you mentioned, it's just a supplier of one segment, it's a search for fingerprints and a photograph of scanners, and it's relative to this number in insignificant participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27616	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27617	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after the purchase story worth 100m euros, I waited for the ministry to come out with a proposal for a new look, a form, a form of ID because the money invested should be justified. And now the state is further involved, rather than saying on what basis someone invested 100m euros in the purchase of machines, equipment, materials, hardware, software, what was obtained, although there was no law at that time to obtain it. Who approved the purchase, who took part directly in the contracting of jobs, and who was given the percentage of the purchase? Here we need to get out, I think that if the Defence and Security Committee doesn't want to work on that issue, then we're going to ask a parliamentary question, that's 100 million euros from people, not one million from two or five, but 100 million euros from each other to get a new form of ID four years after that. And now it's questionable whether we need it that much, if that's what it takes. I'm inclined to believe that this chip won't jeopardize privacy because I have a couple of cards myself with some chips that I'm going to the bank with, over here, over there. If someone's spying on me, too, follow me, then they'll be able to do even easier with this chip. If not, or if the state guarantees that I can always check if anyone else is going into that database, is it full of data that someone in Europe is reading? Maybe we don't have machines that can read some data from that chip, and the unconscious officer throws them in, and then more modern machines or customized, or machines waiting for that chip somewhere at the airport reveal other data. And that could be false data. Someone can tell you you're gay, someone that you've been punished five times. I'm telling you this because I'm a member of 18 and 20. The Constitution guarantees dignity and the right to private life and the protection of confidentiality of personal data. Of course, it's said that data collection and processing are regulated by law, but this law is not fully regulated. By reading the criminal provisions of the law, I see punishment exclusively for the citizen: if his ID is expired, if he has entered incorrect data, if he has not filed any claim, if he has not paid the fee, and that is what he will be. Where's the responsibility of the state? And what happens if someone steps on members 27 and 28, it seems to me, the Bill of Law, so the records are not protected from unauthorized access or, worse still, that the competent authority data from the records to the unauthorized persons? You've been here far too long to predict the authority for the faces that can get our data. You said - for those who have the right to do so by law or some other regulation. It's already dangerous. If the Government or the Minister are to office by their regulation who else will pass my data, I do not agree with that, because the Constitution said that only the law gives the right to control the data of any person, there are no other regulations. Those are the dilemmas I have. No official will be punished, no criminal act under this law of unauthorized access, data release, and incorrect data insertion is foreseen. Why didn't the legislator predict responsibility for himself? The MUP is proposing a law, the MUP must also provide for penalties within the Ministry for those who do not behave in accordance with the law, not just for citizens. For the citizens, this law is a burden. We're all gonna have to stand in front of the counter, you're all gonna take some taxes. We'll see, there's got to be a photograph of a man, he's got to buy a pattern. It's all costing. What you're printing, hiring 300 people, that's going to cost us the budget. This whole thing is gonna cost us, this law is costing us, it's not making any revenue. He brought income to Dusan Mihailovic and his gang, brought income to Motorola, and to us expenditure. We have to finance it. One hundred million euros in equipment, I haven't seen how much more it's going to cost, although it doesn't need any additional funding in the budget, but how much this is going to cost. What someone hasn't collected -- equipment, patterns, chips, employees, so we know exactly how much this law costs us. Perhaps we can postpone it for a better time, a team before you convinced me that we must do so in order to join the EU. Japan, in which every man who guarantees what the state has to accomplish, since he's technologically equipped to check, Japan hasn't introduced it. And there only 10 percent of the population believes that the data will be absolutely secret and only available to those concerned. It's probably huge equipment and it's taking over some warehouse. It's probably falling dust. It's a matter of technological obsolescence if it doesn't get in the drive as soon as possible. If it's been four years since the purchase, you know what, who bought the new car four years ago, is already thinking about replacing it. And the equipment that should work for at least ten years in Serbia, four years lying in some warehouse, really raises the question -- could that equipment meet the standards for two or three years, as long as it takes to issue new ID cards. This would really be a technical law and it shouldn't be passed, it rewrites all the solutions that are basically the same as before. But I also prepared a brief discussion about that Article 10th position 6 and I am glad to be able to sit here with Mr. Baralic, who was talking about the same topic from another angle. There's no human rights here. There's no minority rights here. It's about identification. The forbidden woman has not been identified. I can't accept that. He comes to the MUP, brings a digital photo, you only see eyes. Then she says, "Faith asks me to take pictures like this." Will the police say yes, I'll recognize you now. You know, he's taking his clothes off in front of the doctor. There are services you no longer have any rights of your own, you can't insist on them, because, you say, the state is more important than anything. This is a law that will facilitate the fight against terrorism. You know, Minister, that's not exactly true. Those who hit America in September came from countries where there was complete identification, landed at American airports where people have been out for five years, nakedly undressed, checked out when their father, mother, grandfather, and terrorists entered America again and made such a noise. Not only can the law provide the state. So when Motorola delivers something to you and works for the U.S. government, never believe that there is no point in that chip that can be activated or that our experts have really moved so far away that they can recognize any innovation. You saw with Windows what happened. You don't need a man to talk to you anymore. Brain-brained. You saw what hackers from Russia do when they cause a disturbance in the Pentagon. Why don't we do it with our little cards? That's all I'm afraid of, not even all the horses were horseshoes, so the frog raised his foot. This system has been applied very little in Europe. So let's all do it, so let's just do it, it's a trend, but you don't have that obligation at airports or anywhere, you're still registering with a passport looking at the photo. The question is, will this ever be an international obligation by convention? Countries can introduce them as obligations because they can justify it for a variety of reasons. I'm convinced here that the reasons for first washing someone's cheeks, avoiding punishment for someone who's been doing this job unauthorized, and then it's all wrapped up in some neighborhood so it doesn't cost us anything and it'll help us communicate more easily with the world. That's why I'm a skeptic with regard to the adoption of this law, and that's why the SRS parliamentary group will be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27618	Thank you. The Republic is requested by MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27619	Just so I'm clear, I'd also be at Mr. Nikolic's point of view. When a new ID form would not have these biometric elements - photography, signature and fingerprint, and when a police officer or someone who carries out an identification would not have a decoder. So in this sense, it is now possible to establish the identity of a person practically led to perfection. Also, I don't think it's normal for someone to take a photo of themselves, and that doesn't mean a scarf. I said to the scarf. If that means that someone should have a birth certificate, then I'm against it, because it's an important cover-up. So in that sense, I want to explain what my statement was about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27620	The word is from MP Ivan Zivadinovic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, here is the G17 plus that this technical law should be passed because we need it for European integration and for the demands that Europol and Interpol make before us. What respected fellow predecessors already noted was that the state of Serbia system cost 98m euros, something that G17 plus three years ago was public, and we then called then Minister Mikhailovic that there are serious problems with the purchase of that property, because 13 euros per capita costs Serbia the system and the current additional requirements for registration of this ID card hope that citizens will not be additionally burdened. What we have now is that, according to the M.O.P., it costs about 200 dinars. I sincerely hope so, and the minister will assure us that this will be, is that the new document, the electronic ID card, will not cost more. And I expect that what you all have in your pockets, driver's licenses written on SFRY and passports the weight of paint written by the SRJ, means grandfather and great-grandfather of this current independent state of Serbia, will soon be changed and I think the minister will have to prepare laws very quickly to amend these two documents. What this law provides is that foreign citizens can, along with that code 88, get both the home number and this ID card, and I think that's very good. We need the G17 plus technical and legal redistribution of the text of the ID bill, to exclude terms -- a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro, but the minister has already noted that he will. And what a new ID is different from the previous one is that it's going to be worth five years, not ten years, as before. What I might notice is that in the final terms, it says, more precisely in Article 30, a fine of 5,000 dinars will be fined by all persons who do not return their ID card to the competent authority within the prescribed time limit or who do not carry a ID card, who, without delay, do not report missing or find a ID card or do not publish it in the "Official Messenger". I think it's too much punishment for our terms. Of course I support that I.D. is worn as a document. I think in the next law, which will go after this law, about the driver's license, it should leave the possibility for citizens to use the driver's license as a means of identification so we don't have to carry two documents. Once again, I urge all Members of this House to vote in favour of this technical law. G17 plus will do it in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27622	Thank you. Since we're closer to 1400 hours, it determines an hour's break. Resume session at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27623	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27624	This law, as it is said, is of a technical nature, but it introduces something new with us. For the past 30 years, we've had a personal identification document, so-called. I.D., which looked different in that period. She looked like a card for a while, but it was actually a cardboard player wrapped in plastic, and for a number of years, it looked about the same as I did. Then it falls apart, and it, for example, says the date of publication 24.12.2002, and the period of validity of 10 years. Can anyone imagine this going to take 10 years? In other words, I have to replace this, because as soon as it breaks up like this, I have to go to the competent authority to fix it and replace it. I tried to glue, but they tell me it's not good. What is proposed by this law is one technical thing, but extremely beautiful. That card looks like this, on a special material that can't be easily broken, or bent, with certain signs on it, of three meanings, which are read not only by the eyes but also by electronic means, so that's the kind of identification card, if we're even up to the fact that we have identification cards in society, I don't think it was as controversial as we should have. I agree with all who have the right to ask questions and expressions of certain concern when it comes to such matters, because it can often be said that certain technical means, when it comes to the identification of citizens, may be in correspondence with concerns about possible abuse, especially when it comes to the rights of those same citizens. However, we heard the prime minister's opening statement, and we saw based on the answers the minister gave that such concerns were practically out of place. It was also mentioned that supplies for material for the whole project were made three or four years ago and that it should certainly be examined, but that is one thing, and entering into such a serious project is quite another thing. In objective terms, when it comes to budget costs for this purpose, there is no objective cost because the budget is always seen as an annual category, and for something that someone has done backwards and poorly, therefore there are competent authorities to determine it and that when it comes down if it is the subject of conversation, and I don't think today it's the subject of conversation. So this new technical project, which should allow us to do certain things more easily, should be very important to us. What are the benefits of all this? First of all, this is one of the preconditions to get what's called the E-Government Electronic Government abroad. This does not mean that anyone can verify anyone, not any hacking, not any access to any systems or private data about people, but represents the possibility that the state can communicate with citizens more easily and reduce certain administrative procedures, so in itself it is one of the goals that is being pursued. Of course, to the extent that this area can influence preventive action in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, it does so. So you don't need to twist the words of those who talk about this thing in a way that makes us laugh about it. Simply, to the extent that the identification and registration of citizens can serve the purpose of fighting crime, to this extent and to the full extent that it helps. If we look at two different types of records and the way they've been kept, the one we've had so far, and we compare it to this, when we're comparing between these two types of records and the way they're recorded, then it's clear that this one goes much more to meet this goal. You need to speak correctly about this. Of course, these simplify administrative procedures, especially when it comes to the place of residence, the place of application, so this thing is extremely relative in this situation, and it certainly makes it possible for citizens to be in a much easier position when it comes to meeting their requirements for issuing an identification document. Of course, the dynamic character of this document means that we don't have to because of every little thing that comes into the data description that belongs to the record that we're changing the whole document so that these modified data can be recorded, which is also very significant, and that in the longer term it saves money, especially taxpayers and citizens themselves, when it comes to taxes that are not here, but about the costs of replacing identification cards, which are thus reduced. At first, I showed you my I.D., which I'm getting into the circumstances of these days, and so, now I have the cost of replacing that I.D. I certainly wouldn't have that expense if I had a card like this. So it's an extremely simple and technical question. Of course, the possibility that such a document, given the three characteristics of the data contained, can be much more difficult to abuse, which is ultimately the goal and is related to other goals that I have spoken about for a while. What we have had the opportunity to hear or to object safely these days in public while this session is taking place, because it will certainly be broken down, as soon as I have come to such questions and such documents. So the question arises, and this is already answered in the debate so far, from which this microchip is made up, does it contain elements for tracking and listening? Of course not. This type of microchip from which the data is read is different and safer than the kind of magnetic record that you have on our identification cards of the MPs, it lasts longer and is much more difficult to damage. That's why it looks like this. It does not contain any kind of code or anything that allows any kind of listening or tracking. It's completely off. Of course, there was one question that was asked, what is the guarantee that the government would not change the data on the user in the central database, such as nationality, religion, etc. Of course, the guarantee is legal, and that's why this law is passed. If it wasn't for this law, there wouldn't be a legal guarantee. What's your guarantee today that someone isn't going to change something in a certain kind of record? There is a question of the system itself and the possibility of entering the system from the side. If the system is a closed type, and this is a closed system, it can only be entered by those persons who are authorized, officials who are authorized. If someone commits the abuse of the system, it can only be those same authorized persons and, of course, against such authorised persons a certain procedure can be initiated, from disciplinary to criminal. Hence, the place of abuse in this sense has the same as it does today. The only thing that's going to be a lot less likely for laymen to abuse this card and that some people who are out of the system of cards and even the identification documents are misusing, which is not of little importance. Not to tell you any further, I saw there, there was an amendment that said that the English language on the card was deleted. This card is not just an identification card in terms of identification in our country, it is also a travel document. The next day, if we are, and I hope and wish to be, an EU member, we will travel across the EU without passports, but with an identification card, with which other EU members travel within the EU countries. Of course, imagine going with a document that contains a Cyrillic sign of names and last names and other data and showing it to a cop who stopped us from controlling traffic, and we're driving to a car in Hungary. What does that mean to him? Therefore, we simply need to be adapted to the moment we live in and to know why this card has certain characteristics as it is imagined. So, I don't want to owe you any more. It was a question of what would happen in the event of a computer failure. The same thing that happens in case any other system falls, in a postage savings bank, somewhere else. So now you can never absolutely protect yourself from the fall of the system, but it just works and that system is closed and secure. If it contains a bar code, we've seen it doesn't contain any. This card in itself represents a couple of things. First, it allows the state in a very simple way to carry out certain records that the law requires it to carry out, from the aspect of the protection of citizens and their right to privacy and personality, as well, even more security or more attention to that data than it has ever been. So this is the ultimate technical question, and I ask that we all take it like that, and with great joy, that all citizens for the same cost that they could now have, as I will have in the case of the replacement of my ID card, will get a new identification card, which is nicer, better, more practical, less haba and in that sense will cause less personal costs in the period for which it applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27625	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the MPs, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of the MPs to apply for a word in the principle of the proposal for a law on the ID card. Before we go in order, just a few notices. Today, we will be working until the debate is over by the end of this agenda, and the remainder will be on Monday at 10.00 and we will be working next week. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: next Friday? Today we will work until the end of this agenda, and the sequel is Monday at 10.00 and we will work throughout next week. The first in a row is Išpanović Istvaniz G17 plus, a National MP, and then Aleksandar Vukic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27626	I would like to share some of my dilemmas with you, or ask the minister to pay attention to some suggestions, since the government will certainly submit amendments to this bill. I think it's very important that we pass this law, although it's already there, I don't know how many times it's been said that it's a law of technical character, but I think it's very important that we have this law as soon as possible. It was said that, in addition to the new kind of ID card, we should get other documents, since the identity card will be that basic document. However, it is very important that we have a passport similar to that protected, as will be the ID card, and also a driver's license, and a traffic licence, because, say today and a small child can forge a driver's license or a traffic licence, since there is no protection. I hope your laws are in order soon. Now some dilemmas and suggestions. It is Article 8, where it is envisaged that, in addition to a form regulated by Article 7, some other documents are submitted, so let's say, the citizen is forced to obtain certain documents that other state bodies have. Today in the world, in many countries, it is not possible for a citizen to obtain those documents that otherwise have a state, that is, certain authorities of the state or local self-government. Besides, there's one piece of information that I suspect is that it can be asked of citizens at all. It's a unique parent's number. We hereby oblige a citizen to obtain one document from a third party. In most of our families, it certainly won't be any problem for me to get my father and mother's birth number, but it's not like that in all the families. How's that going to work? I'm not sure that's constitutional. It means that we can make a citizen that he is obliged to file that document. A few words about article 9. I would ask in advance to address this attention by the Ministry, because many citizens who are not of this kind will think, it is about personal maps for national minorities, that under this law he will be able to automatically seek, let's say, a Hungarian to write down his name and last name in Hungarian by Hungarian spelling. For example, there is no copy of the birth certificate inscribed its name and last name in Hungarian. Since it is uniformly stated here that a citizen can only ask for enrollment based on birth certificates, this results if his name is not so written that he will not be able to ask. Therefore, I would like to warn the MUP in advance that certain problems may arise. Therefore, a citizen would have to do so before asking for a personal ticket to make those changes, it is known to change his personal name. It's a second procedure. It would be good to think about it, to avoid any misunderstandings. Also, I have one suggestion in Article 13. This article should be complemented in such a way that this form includes a question in which language a ID card will be issued. So again, it is about national minorities, because the requirement does not state that there is a need for a citizen to define what kind of ID card he wants, so a personal card in two languages, in Hungarian, Slovak, and I do not know what language he wants, and in Serbian. That request should also contain a signature. In Article 13, these two things are not covered. It's not a question of this law, but I think it's necessary to pass a new data protection law. Now we have federal data protection law. That law is already out of date. This has already been said in earlier discussions, how to protect data in Serbia's MUP, data on all citizens. In order to avoid abuse, I think it is necessary to pass a new law on the protection of personal data, in order to ensure this protection that has already been discussed here. Just two more little suggestions, and it's a violation, Article 29. I don't think it's a good thing to be threatened with a prison sentence, for example, for point 2), which says "who within a certain time doesn't apply for an I.D." I think it's too harsh a punishment. I agree that it should be sanctioned, but not by a prison sentence, but it would certainly be enough for a fine. This also applies to point 5 of this attitude, which says "who refuses to show their ID card". I don't think that's why someone should go to jail, too, and maybe we should transfer these two violations to Article 30. Otherwise, G17 plus will support this bill. It is necessary that we pass this law and I call on the other parliamentary groups to support this law as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27627	The word is from Ambassador Aleksandar Vukic, and Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the SRS is the only political party to vote against this bill. I brought here to show Mr. Minister, and to you, one brochure and three appeals from different associations of Serbian citizens against this law. I read everything they had to say. He agrees with most of the work. Some things might be exaggerated, but I think they're quite right, given the proposed law. I'll try two angles to criticise this proposal. The first is financial, and the second is part of the threat to human rights and freedoms, one of the most significant rights guaranteed and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also all other international conventions and declarations of human and citizen rights, which is the right to privacy, therefore, the right to respect for private and family life. Everyone has the right to respect the same home and correspondence, is one of the members of the International Civil Rights Pact since 1966. Why was I talking about this first financial aspect? When all this comes up at about 100m euros in our expenses, the question arises whether we can blame only Minister Jocic or some before. Is he in a situation where he has to say that the DOS got it, so he bought the materials, or he's going to fail, or I'm going to use it. That requires an additional 20m euros and a fewm euros, and there are problems for the citizens of Serbia, but above all for taxpayers, for those over whose back and over whose coat of arms it will have to be charged. On the other hand, around the introduction of such personal cards, I have one objection to the behavior of those who call themselves Serbia's media public service. I was just listening. Three o'clock was a turn-on. The minister speaks politically, in the interest of his party and his government, that's his business, but at the end of his presentation, the smarter one than the journalist's minister says: yes, we have to do this because it's everywhere in the EU, so we want to join the EU, so we will introduce such ID cards. Now you're looking, wondering what he's talking about. So I take, am I blind or underreading, so let me read, is it perhaps, say, the Swedish member of the EU and other Nordic countries, not counting Norway, whether Britain, England is an EU member? Maybe she got kicked out in the meantime. I thought you DSS guys knew who did, who didn't. Why did I tell you this? Because there is one matrix in our society: whatever anyone does, and possibly against it, radicals -- let it go, they are against it because it is for the EU. What does that have to do with the EU? Half the countries are gone. They don't have IDs at all. For the sake of truth, I'd like to give you some information. In an attempt to introduce such personal cards with microchips into the UK, David Blanket is of the general public named Big Brother England. He's recently been transferred. Why? Of course, they don't care about us, they don't care about the situation of Serbs and Serbia, but they care about their human rights, they care about their citizens, about their interests, and then they say, "Wait, how is it that the state controls us in such a way, how is it possible that the state has such control and what do we get?" Someone says you're getting data processing speed. That's right. Until the system goes down, as far as the data speed is concerned. Are we getting anything in a safe way? We're not getting anything. That's what all the tests showed. Now I'm going to read to you, to see some who have a little more experience than we do and with, I guess, a little more serious crime. We've got this one mostly thieving, from the cement store to I don't know what. So, since 1994, when the Torians tried to introduce it to the UK, the Police Chiefs' Association immediately reported that the claim to increase security and reduce criminality was not accurate, both because of the large possibilities of counterfeiting and the resistance that citizens will face in contact with the police. At the same time, it enables the spread of fear in people and the collection of something, probably in some bodies, certain information in different computers, in different software, which are only of the private interest of individual citizens and nothing more. Otherwise, for the record, in 1953, the British Supreme Court, to hear those mentioned only by the EU, made a decision by which the legislation by the police was banned, because it is illegal and completely illegal. At the same time, who can guarantee that a new electronic peace map cannot receive an incomparably greater number of personal data? Now I'm going to give you an example. I've got a card at the Centrobank, now they call it Laiki, I've got an I.T.B., and so on. When you put that card in any bank, I didn't even know you'd get a complete state of mind in any bank that you had, in any way. I knew it would be nice for them to track down whether you bought it at Rodic's or Maxie's or a private store. I've agreed to it voluntarily, it's a way that sometimes, when he's 20 days late from pay or something, to settle other obligations, that it'll be paid. I agreed to it voluntarily. Even I didn't know this, can you think of ordinary citizens? So, the moment they put in any bank card, they can get you into a complete state of mind in all banks, in all accounts. Yes, I know it is, I didn't know, I'm informing the citizens that they know that. And then I wonder, since the whole job is designed with Motorola, which is doing the most confidential and important military-security, police-security, in any case security work for the U.S. government. Who guarantees us that this is not a way for more serious spying and for more serious monitoring, and I don't play with stories or "animal Farms" or Big Brother, or paranoid or anything. Pretty much, I have to admit, I'm not paying attention to it, and I don't care and you've never been able to hear from me in public – yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, I don't care about that. But I think this really is a fundamental violation of human rights and brings itself many problems and many unexplained things. I'd like to ask the following questions to the minister who is being asked by the citizens. Nothing, I suppose Mr. Minister will hear, Mr. President. What is the microchip made up of and does it contain any elements that our technology may not know, and which can be expected to be used for tracking and listening? What is the guarantee that the government will not change the data on the user in the central database and enter purely private matters, such as nationality, religion, political confidence, health status, etc.? What is the system for protecting the central database from external incursions and abuses? You saw what hackers are able to do, they're capable of destroying the Pentagon, not what we could have problems with here in Serbia. After all, those who have payment cards, credit cards and any kind of credit card know what it's like when the system falls, so then neither the speed of information you were just talking about can be expressed. What is the protection against the possibility of selling and leaking data from the hands of people who manage the central database? What foreign electronic systems are connected to the home central database? From which manufacturer was the equipment obtained for making these ID cards? We're interested in how and how the tender was conducted, since it's big money, from which sources is this electronic system funded, and what happens in the event of a system crash? Because of the speed of the data, whether they're going to hold someone in the march for four hours or three, or two, or five, until they check all the data and see that everything's in order. It can happen to be different, but it can happen and everything can be okay. This law can indeed be earned also as a law that lays down discriminatory norms, which bears discrimination for Serbian citizens, while at the same time in a special and indirect way, could endanger the sovereignty of the Republic. It would be good if we had more information. And another question for Mr. Secretary. If you are already doing this and if most of that decision will be made, and since I see people complaining and asking Boris Tadic not to sign it, I tell them – people, it's the wrong address, they'll sign it. He just won't sign what's good for the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, and what's wrong will be signed by the jute and right away. I didn't even see it today, I saw that Natasha sent a few kind words to this supreme Gilas, as this white-world fraud is called. And he showed up today to wait for us, did you know that, Mr. Aligrudic? And he was waiting for us outside the Serbian Parliament something to forbid us to go in, you can't believe it, he showed up until Natasha drove him away. She told him what you were gonna do, you thief, and he ran away. But you don't believe it. And that's what happened when people's MPs were prevented from coming to work. So he scared us a lot, we weren't supposed to come, we were just counting on if we were going to go to the back door or if I didn't know where, how or what would happen. Also, it would be good to say that a good part of the people in the Serbian church is absolutely against this law. They should have been consulted. I'm not saying they always have to play a decisive role, but they had to be consulted and asked about this law. And that question, to finish, Mr. Minister, I saw on that prototype that you showed the borders of Avnojev Serbia, it's understood with Kosovo and Metohija, so let me ask, Mr. Minister, if God don't be those new governments of DS and DSS, that some are announcing and I don't know who else, far away, of course, since Minister Jocic is in the DSS, so I'm counting on him to know if anyone's ever going to change cards again because they don't apply to that particular territory or not? I'd like your answer to be that it won't. You know the one on the left, if I'm not wrong, what should be called a ID. Therefore, honourable MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against the proposed law. We invite you to consider this one more time. Those who have wasted their money in vain, the state's money without asking anyone, and they can answer, if they're from the previous period, you don't have to because they did it to accept that this is the way it's going to be now. I don't think anyone in Serbia will be safer, safer. I'm just afraid Big Brother's going to be a little more, a little stronger and a little better all together to watch us, and that didn't bring anyone luck in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27629	I thank Ace Wolf. The word has a Minister Jocic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27630	First, these questions you've asked, that's what every MP group has received, from which a microchip is made up, whether it contains elements for tracking and listening. No, cell phone's a much more dangerous thing and it's a completely dangerous thing. This is just a mere memory that, apart from the data that's written on the face and the like of the ID card, there's nothing more. What is the guarantee that the government will not change the user's data in the central database and enter purely private matters, such as nationality? Legal. The law regulates all that. System of central database protection against external intrusions. Well, look, this isn't one way, or it's impossible to hack into the database, but the database can be accessed through other ways. This object is not that link, it's not that transmission that can be entered into the database. What are the external electronic systems connected to the home base? No, not with any, which doesn't necessarily mean that you can't make a break-in on the side, illegal. Is it true that the I.D. on it breaks down the bar code? That was one of the questions. No, it doesn't contain a bar code, but it's simply a set of numbers, as well as the current ID card. You know, absolute freedoms don't exist and society and the state is still an organization that tends to record its members, to know them by name, by name, to determine their movements. One type of same state control is the application of residence, residence. And the current ID card, to get back 30 years ago, could have been asked the same questions -- well, what's the starting number, what's in that sum of 13 pieces, what's there, what's the combination, is there a code, what we are, where we are, where we're in a political organization, were we, who we were between 1941 and 1945 on which side, are we convicted, are we not condemned? The same thing could be set up and it could be set up for this ID card, and it has some number of 13 digits. After all, we have this last control number that just doesn't know what it means, but it's a complete number for a particular person. What happens in case the system crashes? It doesn't work electronically, it works primarily visually. You have a photo on it, you have a signature. So, first you recognize a man visually, then after and only at the end as one way to identify all of this is this chip. After all, we are in such a system and such a time where technology requires such things. I really wish we had such an organized world and such an organized society that we don't have to, except for the personal features we've been wearing since birth, have no other kind of identification.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27631	I thank Minister Dragan Jocic. The People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, is prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27632	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the chairman, Mr. Minister, the matter governed by the draft law on the agenda today is very important to determine the identity of our citizens. Therefore, it gathers attention not only to those of us who participate today in the debate, but also to the general public. The ID is a public ID that makes Serbian citizens prove identity, but also other facts contained in it, and may also serve as a travel document, if so arranged by an international contract. Serbian citizens are still serving an identity card that was introduced more than 30 years ago by the Law on Fundamental Data in the 1973 ID card and the Law on the ID card, which was passed a year later. In modern conditions, when using electronic identification cards in many countries, an integrated automated system for the personalisation of identification documents, a ID card, which is now in use in Serbia, is a lagging model for proof of identity and does not satisfy even the minimum trend in this area. The creation of a legal framework for the management of an integrated automated system for the personalisation of identification documents is the basic reason for the adoption of a new ID card law. As the most significant newspaper of the proposed law, I would like to point out that the right and duty of the ID card has all persons over 16 years of life, who are citizens of Serbia, who are resident in Serbia's territory. The right to ID also has citizens over 10 years of age. The age limit has been shifted for issuing an I.D. from 18 to 16 years of life, given that some rights, for example, are acquired with 15 years of life. The issue of a ID card to foreigners staying in Serbia's territory, as has been so far, will be governed by a special law. The period of validity of the ID card is five years for persons over 16 years of age. Children are betrayed for two years, and no later than the end of the month in the calendar year when they are 16 years old. A ID card issued by the MUP on a form on which the basis for the introduction of modern, functional electronic identity cards is laid, with full respect for the levels of human and minority rights achieved, individual and collective civil freedoms. Personal data to be entered in the ID shall be provided in accordance with international standards and in the scope of the identification of individuals and individualisation in relation to other natural persons. According to the bill, the identity card would also contain biometric data, photography, signature, fingerprints, which should provide reliable confirmation and verify identity, because biometric identity cannot be forged or copied. According to the proposed solution, the ID card assumes the function of the primary identification document, which is an assumption for the issue of other secondary identification documents, such as travel documents, driver's license, etc. A clear and precise procedure for issuing an identity card, a way of applying for the issue of children and persons deprived of their business capacity, a mandatory personal presence in the submission of requests, to identify identity and to take biometric data, and to identify other facts of importance for solving upon request. In order to prevent possible fraud or abuse, the proposal determines cases when a personal card has been issued, although its importance has not yet expired, it cannot serve its primary purpose. For its owner, there is a ban on its use and obligation to demand the release of a new one in exchange for such. The same protective purpose is to prohibit all persons from giving their ID card to another person to use or to serve someone else’s ID card. Detailed and precise arrangements shall be made for the records kept on the identity card and the conditions under which these data can be given for use, as well as for the protection of collected personal data, the prevention of their unauthorised use and abuse. Compared to the current law, the most significant advantages of the new law are the creation of a dynamic document, the possibility of changing certain data contained in the document, unlike the current static, unchangeable; the elimination of differences in documents compared to data from the records; protection of citizens' privacy; the reduction of the possibility of counterfeiting and misuse of documents; simplified and accelerated procedures for issuing documents. Personalisation of identification documents would contribute to the modernisation, improvement and modernisation of the work of state authorities, local self-government and public services, effective and rational exercise of rights, obligations and interests of our citizens. Therefore, the DSS MPs will support the proposed text of the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27633	I thank the People's MP Heliana Dragojevic. The word of the messenger of the people is of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and that the messenger of the people, Mark Christine, be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27634	Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments presented by the minister as a reason for the adoption of this law, especially the famous Article 8, I can say that they are serious from his point of view, but here I have heard some inconclusive arguments, such as the argument that a new law must be passed because the current ID cards are unquality, because someone has torn up the ID card or because someone's ID card was washed in the washing machine. Indeed, this cannot be a serious reason or argument for the adoption of laws and for such drastic changes. I'm going to say a few things about some of the other members that we didn't talk about here, and, of course, later on, I'm going to talk about Article 8. I will begin with Article 7, the ID card is issued in a form prescribed by the minister, to stand - the Ministry, because it is, again, the principled position of the SRS. But we think that this form, among other things, should contain the name of one parent and that it cannot stand what is required at the end of Article 8's first position to enter in the identity card the single parent number of the applicant's parents. I'll tell you why this can't. This is simply not possible today in Serbia, for technical and practical reasons. Those who had refugee status, who in the meantime received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia, and who are due to receive a ID card, cannot possibly, under the bill, get a ID card because they cannot enter the parent's number of parents. Because many of their parents, it's true, Mr. Aligrudic, you know how many concrete reasons I know, it's one of the conditions, please, we're not going to do this. So former refugees, who in the meantime became citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will not be able to get ID cards because they do not have parent numbers. Many parents are not alive, so the law cannot be applied in that part so that a birth number can be obtained afterwards. I just don't know if this is done on purpose, since with people who have been refugees or now, the government of Serbia has always, especially before some elections, passed some laws to make it impossible for those people who have, or had, refugee status to vote. Of course, it's common knowledge that the reason is because these people with over 95% vote for the SRS. Article 9 states in the first position that the form of ID cards is to be printed in Serbian, Cyrillic and English. This is unacceptable because it does not comply with the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Which will give us English on a personal map, next to the Serbian language, why didn't you say Russian, Chinese, I don't know what you had in mind to be English. Of course this shouldn't stay in the law. Of course, it was more acceptable to note fellow Istvan Ispanovic that it was necessary here to say that members of national minorities, besides the Serbian language, can also use in their personal cards the language of a national minority who, in accordance with the law, is also applied to the territory of the municipality where those persons live. In Article 13, what my colleague was giving me is not a mandatory single parent number for my parents, it stands in Article 13, and it really is an obligation. Article 19, point 2) is also not good, at least it is imprecise, because it says that the holder must not use the ID card, so, among other things, if the photo on the ID card no longer corresponds to its appearance. This is very general, very broadly written. Does this mean that any hair dyeing in women implies, though some men paint themselves, so they can also use a new ID card. Does that mean a haircut or no bangs? It means a new ID card. ID cards should have some deadline in which it's really natural not to expect any major changes in the appearance of a cardholder. Also, it is not good for this solution in Article 23(2) and the first position says that the missing ID card declares the solution invalid, and against the solution set out in Article 1 of this Article the appeal is not allowed. Legally and in order to simplify the procedure, that citizens have as few runnings as possible from the counter to the counter, this should be complemented here and said that this does not apply to cases where the ID card is found and its disappearance has not been published in the Official Messenger. There is no reason not to appeal to such a solution and, of course, to make the appeal a positive solution. Article 24 states that the issue of a ID is paid a fee covering the price of the form of a ID card and the cost of technical production, but it is said not to pay the tax. It's not a neck. It's a neck. You won't charge the administrative fee that is now, I don't know if it's 240 dinars or how much, I'm not sure, maybe it's a bigger administrative fee. The fee will be paid covering the price of the form of the ID card and the cost of the technical production. Serbian citizens do not know how much it is and it can be a number and it will likely be much, much larger than a classic administrative fee. It is not good nor a proposed solution in Article 28. first position of point 2). The first point of view is that the competent authority may provide data from the records to state and other bodies and organisations, as well as legal and physical persons, under the following conditions, and in point 2) says that the data-seeking entity is necessary to carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction. What does that mean? If I do some business and I need information from Momir Markovic's I.D., without his question, I can use those data and abuse them however I want, because it's in the interest of doing my job. This is not a good solution and this fits into this story of the SRS, or SRS arguments of non-compliance with fundamental human rights when it comes to the proposal for this law. In criminal provisions, you have some illogical things, in addition to what Mr Tomislav Nikolic here said you would provide fines only for the citizens of Serbia for certain offences, but also in that case, for example, you provided that by fines of up to 50,000 dinars or prisons of 30 days a person, among other things, which, within a certain period, do not apply for the issue of a ID card, Articles 11 and 20. So the law stipulates that the right to an ID card has faces from 16 years of age. Then, if someone doesn't file a personal card within a certain deadline, then you'll punish the 16-year-olds with a fine of 50,000 dinars. But that's why a fine of 5,000 dinars punishes a person who, within the prescribed time limit, does not return a ID card to the competent authority for annulment. I don't see why it couldn't have been both of them under this smaller fine of 5,000 dinars, the question is how appropriate that punishment is, but this one of the 50,000 dinars for this kind of offense is really not acceptable. We understand, say, a high sentence for persons who use an I.D. that can't be used, I don't know, when in a request for a release they state false information, etc. This is just missing a deadline is not exactly regulated, one day it can be late within that time period and that a fine of 50,000 dinars is paid or goes to prison for 30 days, and it is not applicable. Also, it is not a good solution provided for in Article 32 that the procedure for resolving the issue of a ID card, launched before the date of application of this law, ends under the provisions of this law. You don't need a solution like this, because you have in Article 35, where you're talking about the date of entry into force, and it's exactly starting to apply at the end of six months from the date of entry into force. Of course, we also think if you pass this law that the minister is a long time ago six months ago. He can handle it in three months, that's what we've proposed. So simply by applying this Article 35, you have no need for Article 32. Now a little bit about Article 8, which is certainly the most interesting and very critical of these days, refers to the form of a personal map containing space, among other things, for the control of the chip and the space for the machine-readable area for the purposes of automatic reading of data. I don't know how many ministers you've been following in public these days, and I suppose it is, that trees and stones have fallen on this bill, or Article 8. You said here... Is this working? (President: It works. What did you say, Bucky?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27635	I said get some water after you cough.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27636	Thank you. I will. Here. So, Minister, you said here that this is like cell phones, you claimed this chip didn't mean listening. We claim it means both tracking and listening. However, you started it without a chip to this control who crosses the border, who does not cross, of course, and you said that mobile phones are more dangerous than this chip you predict. Let's just say they are, but the cell phone, Minister, I use it if I want and when I want, and if you install this chip, then it has to be used when I want and when I won't, especially when I don't. That's the big difference when it comes to my human rights. I hope you're okay with that. Also, comments and calls for arguments where all these chips are used and how the EU does it. EU countries have nothing to do with the real situation. I'll tell you a few examples, I suppose you know them, that there were mass demonstrations and oppositions in Greece, above all Orthodox churches and certain agencies, data protection agencies, and that for that reason, a scheme for introducing biometric control at border crossings was withdrawn in Greece. I am noting this because there are certain views of a part of the SPC, which strongly opposes these chips, and especially because there is some information that these chips for the citizens of Serbia will be very much misunderstood, but I have information that these chips will contain three sixes and that is one of the basic reasons (yes, baptize, of course) why part of the SPC opposes these chips. I'll tell you that in the United States, which is in many ways an example to you, the reluctance of the population to the state's control of identity is such that there are still no ID cards there, let alone these chips. Australia and the Philippines have rejected the chips because of the high price, but of course Dusan Mihailovic bought Motorola's equipment and you have to adapt the law to that equipment. That's not very common. Also, in 1981, this was attempted in France, so Mitteran said the introduction of computer IDs meant depriving human rights. That's what their then Justice Minister Badenter said, so there wasn't any of that work either. We have an example of New Zealand and a lot of examples where these chips and cards aren't accepted. You said, Minister, that this had nothing to do with any connection to international systems, and Sasa Milicevic, the head of the Serbian Ministry of Information and Information, spoke with great optimism and enthusiasm about this newspaper, and, among other things, said - all the data on the card was encryptedly protected so that their secrecy was guaranteed. Besides, after full information from the MUP business, there won't be a problem over the line. This is very interesting. It says -- the national database will be linked to international systems, and the visa regime will be made much easier. This visa regime doesn't matter. It is very interesting and very dangerous that the national database will be linked to international systems. Among other things, Sasa Milicevic also says the introduction of this type of document is part of a global strategy in the fight against terrorism. Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained that this is not possible and that this has nothing to do with the facts. There's something else this gentleman, the head of the Ministry of Information of the MUP, said. It says - in a large number of countries, abuse control is resolved by introducing an institution or a person in the government or making sure that the data available to the country is not used for other purposes than controls. This person is usually in a high state position and represents civilian control. Apparently, we will have someone elected as police inspector general. Whether this whole job is because of Bozovic or another Bozovic, we will soon find out and learn Serbia's citizens. Thomas Sok, director of the Biometry Department at the Motorola Company, on November 17, 2003, enthusiastically says that Serbia is the dying country, at least in the most advanced in Europe, in police control of its population. Here's his words -- "Serbia introduces the most advanced system for identifying citizens and issuing personal documents in Europe and one of the best in the world. The European Union and other countries are moving towards biometric documents, i.e. automatic identification of fingerprints or persons, but Serbia is in front of them. “ By many things we are, unfortunately, far behind all of us on this globe, and I don’t know why you set us up to be the first to be among the first. It says - Serbs, you are the first in Europe to have police control over you through the computer systems of the newest generation. Police with a motorcycle is our most important engine on its way to European integration. The Serbian Radical Party does not accept this and therefore we will not vote in favour of this bill and for the sake of the public, you said in a statement that implementing this law does not require additional funds in the republic's budget. That's simply not true, because you have to hire, if you already have the equipment, you haven't even paid for it, because it's been taken for a delayed period, for some grace period, so it has to be paid, you have to hire new rooms, new people, training, and so all this wouldn't happen, Minister Jocic, you're a reasonable man, you pull this law, we're dealing with serious things.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27637	The People's Messenger Marko Krstin has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are in front of a minor law, as I would say. We have passed much larger laws here, but it will be one law that will apply all the people in this country and will apply many times every day. It will be the most applicable law in the state of Serbia, however much someone called it by technical law, which does not have many members. It's going to be in practice every day, and every citizen of ours is going to apply this very law. The G17 Plus Group will support this law. It is in the interest of the Serbian state to achieve a certain data quantum related to citizens in Serbia, not in the interest of the state as a state, but as an organisation of citizens who should allow normal lives of citizens in their territory, means to protect their citizens from illicit and dangerous behaviours, to channel these behaviours where they belong, to register the behaviour of such persons, to register those persons, and that is exactly the law. This law will serve those who are injured in car accidents, to register who it is, to serve children who are lost to find themselves, etc. So it's not just a law that serves some imaginary interests, an imaginary group of people who will be in power. It's simply not true, it's a law that needs all of us and that's why we're going to vote for it. I would like to discuss two of the most about the issue process or the extension of the ID card. He's somewhat simplified by this law precisely because there won't be a new pattern when the map extends. I'll remind you that the importance of the ID was 10 years or permanent. Let's just say, I have a permanent I.D. I'm going to have to change. This ID card will be able to be extended without a new photo and without new waitings and investments in one such procedure. However, what about the procedure itself, is it in general what citizens would like to be when such an important document is issued? Young people and 16-year-old girls will have to show up for the first time in front of state authorities, girls for the first time and boys for recruiting, so it'll be the first touch of boys and girls with the state, just issuing ID cards. Is this touch between boys and girls with the state the first one in line with that state administration development strategy that we have brought, which requires the state administration to provide good services to citizens, to serve citizens. I think that with regard to the process of issuing ID cards, one could go a step forward, just as much as could be simplified and simplified. Our databases, which are located with our stepparents in the municipal authorities of the general administration, are available to our internal affairs authorities, as well as citizens' records. I don't see a reason that every time a card is issued or a citizen is extended, he has to go to the matrimonials first and take out a copy of the birth certificate and a copy of the citizen's birth certificate, that is, trust in citizenship, and come up with it just to show, he doesn't have to leave, so that they say, six months is not, six months and so on. I think we could go one step further, so the minister could, by sublegal act and without this, intervene in the law and go one step further. Databases exist, databases can be connected if not connected. I don't think that's a problem, and I think our internal affairs authorities can have instantaneous data on every citizen, birth certificate, just by looking at the parent book they're in a relationship with, she's in electronic form, as well as about the citizen's book. I think so many procedures could be simplified and I think we could have taken a big step forward with regard to the crowds and discomfort of waiting in front of the authorities of the state administration, in this case it's the internal affairs authorities. I think it would be very good and it would be much easier for the citizens. Secondly, I think it's a significant question, no matter how much someone says this is a technical law, this isn't technical law for me. I'll just mention Article 28. It's about using data. Most colleagues and colleagues remained on the data use problem, in fear that the data would not be misused. I'll try to talk about it from another point of view. Are these data sufficiently available to those who need or need it to exercise their rights in the process? We could open that question up like that. This ID record serves among other things to ensure that citizens exercise their right to justice. You can't sue someone you don't know their place of residence, because they can't be delivered, and if they can't be delivered, they don't start a litigation and you can't exercise your rights, and that's what this record is all about. However, as prescribed in Article 28, unfortunately, only the use of data is very modestly worked out by this law. Unfortunately, many members of this law have a sublegal act, and that's good, but this one doesn't have a sublegal act. Here he prevailed that the authorities applying a specific law in a specific case, the internal affairs authorities here, would appreciate from case to case whether it was justified to give someone some information. I think the seriousness of the problem is looking for, not only will it be given any information that must not be given, but also whether someone will be denied the information they should have, that the minister prescribes a sublegal act under which conditions can be denied or given the information. I don't think that would be a problem. I'm not going to read Article 28's norm. I think it's too wide on one side. It says - to state and other bodies and organisations, legal and natural persons under the following conditions: that an entity seeking data by law or other regulations is authorised to seek and receive such data, that the entity requesting these data is necessary for the performance of the business. There's a kind of discretion that's known to the internal affairs authorities, but I don't think it's necessary and that it can be much better limited by one sublegal act, in which the minister of course, on the one hand, and on the other hand, protecting the interests of those who don't give them the information, and on the other hand, the interests of those who get some information, could be more detailed, because of our citizens. In particular, I think that the amendment to Articles 2, 4 and 22 should be intervened, since the state union is no longer present, the minister said that and I think, of course, that should be done. I think it would be really good, I say hello, I saw the form here at the pay phone. I want to remind you of the ID pattern he was in 1967. It's relatively similar to this pattern. Of course, it doesn't even contain a piece of that data. I want to tell you that this I.D. or this I.D. form, that's my cousin very close, he didn't contain any data containing the current I.D., but he was far more functional to use and he was more resistant to wear, which is not without the meaning of the matter that we're talking about. It's very good that we get something like this, it's hard to say something like that, but it looks like it. There's a lot more information. Of course photometry is necessary. The fight against organised crime, the fight against drug trafficking, the fight against human trafficking, weapons and so on, should not be talked about, because we are in a situation that requires that we have photometric data. I want to tell you that there are always the rights and obligations of others who protect themselves from someone's abuse. So let's talk about those who will be protected from this, not just those who will be hurt, because they will be more known about it. I am more interested in those who need to be protected from those who intend to do something that is not in accordance with the law. I think that's the way to observe this law. I would very much like the Ministry to prepare and the travel documents law immediately after this regulation, that is necessary. So, of course I'm not feeling well or I don't feel like it if I'm wearing a travel document that has SRJ, I don't like it at all. First, because that country doesn't exist for a long time, and I really don't want us to wait for years to get IDs. Just to let us know that there are some circulations between Serbia and Montenegro so we can use it. We like to see these circulations destroyed and we get Serbian passports, Serbian ID cards and all Serbian documents. This is the state of Serbia, whether it's sad, someone sad, I don't know, but Serbian citizens want to have Serbian documents. We need to stop having some supplies of something, so now because of those supplies, we're going to betray something that doesn't exist. I don't know how they let us abroad with government documents that don't exist. Come on, I'm asking the minister to pass that law, to make passports that will be our passports. I think that's necessary. Let me just say one more thing. I think the travel documents and IDs we're talking about here are very important to each of us's status here and it's not a technical regulation, as I said, a little regulation. It's a very important regulation, and I'd like it to be treated with dignity and respect. I would not like to repeat the picture that when the Serbian flag rises to the mast that the flag is not welcomed by the competent authorities or officials who should stand when the flag rises, that no Serb anthem is heard and that it seems semi-secret, that we do not know. So, I'd like to see this phenomenon about the state, the state symbols, and there's definitely a flag, the coat of arms that's going to be on these documents, not again. Everything that happens to the coat of arms, the flag, our I.D.s, has to be dignified and what it is like for a country like Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27639	The People's Messenger, Ivan Radić, has the word, and the People's Messenger Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia simply doesn't want or can't, or as if it can't deal with problems that are vital to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so the MPs are burying us with such bill proposals as the ID bill, as we had a proposal for public ski resorts a few days ago, and so on. Is there a law in Serbia that needs one of these right now? Does Serbia, where there are more than a million unemployed, need one such law? Does Serbia, on the threshold of debt slavery, need one such law? Does Serbia, which has an external debt of about $15 billion, need one of these laws? How much does a law cost Serbian citizens? Regardless of your reasoning that the application of this law does not require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is evident that a huge amount of money will be allocated from the budget to hundreds of millions of euros. Would that money, invested in the fallen Serbian economy, give better results and better effects for all Serbian citizens? What does the government say about the bill? He says that, with the help of electronic identification cards, an integrated automated system for the personalisation of identification documents has been implemented in many countries and that the introduction of an electronic identification document is to bring our country into line with European and world standards, recommendations and directives of the European Union, Interpol and Europol, which is one of the preconditions for including our country in European integration. Is that right? In many developed Western countries, there are no ID cards, especially such models: the United States, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Ireland, Great Britain, and many others. Why is that? In the United States, personal cards have been tried on several occasions, even on five occasions over the past 30 years, but all this has fallen into the water. In Australia, which is economically and in any other respect far ahead of Serbia, they simply dropped the bill on paper, as the Serbian people say, and came to an enormous figure measuring hundreds of millions of dollars, and simply concluded that such a blow to their country's taxpayers had no justification and gave up. In many other countries, such a system of ID cards has met with condemnation and public resistance. When taking over power, former French President Francois Mitteran said that the introduction of computer IDs meant depriving human rights and that France, as a country of freedom, could not accept them. Also, in the early 1990s, after tremendous public pressure, New Zealand gave up such an idea. Mr. Alexander Vukic told you in his statement that in the 1950s the Supreme Court of Great Britain made a decision by which the application of the legislation was illegal. It was about those regular ID cards, let alone the ones with the electronic chips. There are many reasons why at this point we in the SRS have the right to question the correctness of such an intention. First, it is directly touched on privacy in this way, allowing for the collection of a large number of data on the life of each individual, on the life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The law makes it clear that, in addition to the basic data, a new ID card will include a fingerprint, a digital signature, a digital photo, a unique home number of citizens, a card holder and his parents. All this falls into the water if we know that the right to privacy is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by a series of international documents, such as the General Declaration on Human Rights, such as the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, etc. So, given that it's personal data, there needs to be a certain kind of security, and the security of the data is at a very low level with us, because state databases are insecure. They're falling into the water of stories about closed systems, because, for God's sake, hackers have made so much progress that they're breaking into Pentagon databases, NASA, intelligence services, let alone one closed system of IDs in the Republic of Serbia. Not to mention the possible abuses of unconscious database monitors, because this and how it can become a very lucrative business. Or what I just said about hackers, the real danger of, say, hacking into hackers, some of the extremist or dangerous sects, who, like in the palm of their hand, would have all the information about all Serbian citizens. I get the impression that in this case, the legitimacy becomes more important than its owner and that in this way the citizens of Serbia are turning into numbers, just like the recent tagging of cattle throats, so I wonder where this will take us. In all of this, enough doubt has been expressed that the SRS parliamentary group has the right to look with the infidel to one such bill and for this reason we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27641	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll use, Mr. Chairman, you might as well warn me, maybe abuse me, because it's not from congregation speakers that this guy said anything, but I don't have any other place where I can react. In fact, a policy of hatred for the SRS continues in some media, especially on TV B92. I'm obliged to explain to the citizens some things about their relationship and what they said. They did, I guess, now that they don't have news, and they had to publish a public opinion survey, I didn't see it, but now I'm telling you, "Galup International" said that the SRS had first over 40% of the vote, in the May survey, DS 21%, etc. Then something came along, so, like, let's insult the radicals, we'll let go of everything they said. Look at the abuse and the machination. I am obliged to say this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and yet I ask all sympathisers and members of the SRS for peace, not to call on either the Serbian Parliament or the party's central parliament anymore, there is no need for them to come to Belgrade or from other parts of the city or anything else. We didn't make it once, but countless times a campaign led against the SRS. Among other things, they let Tom Nikolic go where one of the DS MPs said his own time "jukelo one". I'll remind you why it was, to see when it comes to hate speech, as well as this crematorium for Jews and Roma. Perhaps you find it interesting, Mr. Minister. Two MPs, speaking of Dragoljub Milanovic and his wife, I think Milan Stanimirovic and Anita Beretic, threw Tommy Nikolic, when he talked about Dragoljub Milanovic and that he should never be allowed in Serbia to be lynched on the street, to be beaten and bullied on the street, the two of them threw "a little bit of him, should have ended up with him then". So it's not hate speech, but it's probably a speech of love when it's said that it was meant to lynch and kill a man, but the problem is when you answer that to an ordinary people's dictionary, it's nothing special, just an insult. For someone who threatens to kill you, who says murder is not allowed, but desirable behaviour in Serbia, lynching political opponents. Look at the land we live in, in the land of absurdity. According to the lawyer, Stevan Liliæ, that white-world thief, you know that the thief was white-world, stole a book, not that he stole a book like this, but wrote a book for himself, wrote a book from a man and attributed it to himself. That thief's saying someone has to be banned somewhere. He'll forbid it! I found the books of Laze Kostic. Now let's hear the citizens say he did it. We found the books, we proved this on trial, Mr. Minister, a court-proven thief, a court-proven plagiarist. We gave it to you once, the Supreme Court verdict, the dirty and sneaky plagiarist Stevan Liliæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27643	Mr. Wolfie, time, three minutes has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27644	Where are you coming from?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27645	Yes, yes, right now, and otherwise Mr. Markovic read the book in detail here, if you followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27646	Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Obradich, I'll be done in 30 seconds. So, this man found the writings of Laza M. Kostic, one of our greatest Serbian erudite, professor, the man who is the greatest expert in administrative law or right, however you wish, and wrote that book. This thief found these files and she thought there was no such thing and then took it, yes, here it is, "Stevan Liliæ as the intellectual confidant of the current bulldozer of democracy and as a mean and dirty plagiarist", these books. Well, it's all in them. So then he took it and he wrote it from word to word the whole paragraph and he copied it, so let's make a mistake in some stuck-up somewhere, and he copied it. And he says prominent lawyer, what he says - Stevan Liliæ. So he says, "We should ban the SRS," so you know why we should ban the SRS, so he can keep stealing, write books from who knows who, in any way, so he can say -- here I am, a thief, an honest and good lawyer, a respected lawyer. And in all that, Mr. Minister, maybe these identification cards are important to you because of that, they might be important to you. Pay attention to this Gilas, he's a dangerous criminal. So besides that Gilas, pay attention to this one with those I.D. cards. He's gonna steal again, he's the returnee, I see him, he's a dangerous criminal. That's the big thief, the returner. He's going to steal again, I just don't know whose book he's going to take to copy. And after that he still takes the money by charging what he sells, that's where he makes his book. Keep an eye on the students, don't pay for his books, find the books of Laze M. Kostic, take from the original author, don't pay for those who steal and steal. Yes, it's a court case, Mr. Minister, and you're making sure this doesn't happen again. I'm counting on our police to take some preventive action, not just reprisals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27647	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word is from MP Borko Ilic, after Mr. Ilic Natas Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, this debate today could be brought into the top list of the surrealists. Unfortunately, the theme of today's show is not Stevan Lilic, but as the ID bill says here. Now, why should we change the existing system? Well, because I was born in 1980, and in 1998, I took out my ID card, seven years after the break-up of the SFRY, and my ID card says SFRY. So the documents are, by one, obsolete. We have out-of-date documents, and on the other hand, we have an out-of-date law. If we have an outdated law, which was passed some 30 years ago, and we know what a 30-year period does, especially in the 20th century and today in the XHI century, our task is to modernise this segment of life, and this segment of state order. We in the DSS decided to modernise Serbia. Serbia must be modernised, Serbian economy must be modernised, Serbian education must be modernised and Serbian administration must be modernised, and this law and the implementation of this project introduces an electronic ID card to Serbia, dear citizens, modernises itself. Serbia is even moving forward from developed European countries, and the modern state administration, which must serve citizens, is one of the preconditions for this modernisation. In addition to modernising Serbia, what else do you get? For the sea reasons that we can state here for days why this law needs to be passed, to modernise Serbia, to modernise the state administration, to get a system of ID cards, to get the following -- completely secure documents, which are impossible to forge, unlike current ID cards, which you can make on a better photocopier or with better computer equipment, which most citizens may already have at home. In addition, the security system in Serbia is greatly improved by introducing such a system of ID cards. We finally get a unique database, which is a prerequisite for another important single database later, which is the central voter list, with which we've been working so much in the last 15 years in the state. And what I've already cited, and that's the accelerated development of so-called. Electronic governments, i.e. Modernization of the system of government, which is already applied in many countries in Europe and the world, and as far as most of the things that the state is obliged to do to a citizen is available via the Internet, for example, which is the most modern means of communication in the XXI century. In addition to all of this, there are still some doubts as to what we as a state, as a society and as individuals, i.e. Every citizen still gets? So first, our experts, Serbian experts, people from Serbia who are educated here, and our companies will run this project, they will implement the system, and by implementing the system, our people will be employed. It is an opportunity to create new jobs and an opportunity to employ Serbian, part of the Serbian economy, the most modern part of the Serbian economy that implements modern and modern technology. The second thing is that this is, as the representatives of the opposition and representatives of the position on the other hand, the most modern currently applied system of ID cards in Europe, and to this every citizen of this country and every Serb can be only proud, that we too have something that is most modern and at the top of the applied system currently in the European Union and in the modern world at all. So we get the possibility that, in addition to modernising the state administration, in addition to making it more efficient for citizens, we get to export technology. Tomorrow we can sell the system to Romania, Bulgaria, Sri Lanka, Australia, this system that we apply in Serbia. Does anyone have anything against it? No, of course not. Therefore, the possibility of going out of Serbian companies, Serbian experts, Serbian technologies in Europe and the world is opening up, and I repeat again, it can only serve the honor of all of us sitting in this hall. Secondly, he's already mentioned fellow Christin, a complicated system of publishing various documents, where you need about to take one bag of paper when you want to take out any document. The introduction of this system greatly facilitates the publication of other documents, and what is also very important, I repeat, reduces the possibility of abuse in all its forms. I would like to touch on something else that is very important to the citizens of Serbia, especially young people in Serbia. We are in the DSS determined to bring Serbia closer to the European Union, bring it closer to Europe and make it easier for young people in Serbia to go to Europe, see how they live there and then return to Serbia, so that they can modernise their country, participate in what is called building a European future for Serbia. One of the preconditions for entering the so-called so-called. White Schengen list, i.e. that without a visa as citizens of Serbia we can go to the Union is also the modernisation of personal documents. The second step after the introduced ID card with biometric data is passport, i.e. a travel document with the same way and with such projects applied with this famous biometric data. We have to meet that in order to, one of the conditions we have to meet to get on the white Schengen list. Therefore, we in the DSS are determined to modernise Serbia with this project, that this project Serbia is also moving forward, that this project Serbia is also moving in the direction in which it must move, and it is moving towards the government to be closer to the citizens, to make the system of state administration more efficient and that we all live simpler, which is one of the intensities of this law. I repeat, we will be at least in front of Europe, we are already in front of many countries in sport, in education, so I see no reason why we should not also be in the system of issuing ID cards in front of developed European countries. It can only serve us honor, so we must be proud and therefore I invite all MPs of this house to vote in favour of this law. We at the DSS will definitely do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27649	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and then Miroslav Zivkovic from G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when taking over the minister's post in the then-formed government at the extremity of Vojislav Kostunica, you faced what was known as organised crime in our country and the fact that he covered all the structures of our society. And then it became quite obvious and evident that the mafia yellow company DS and how it nurtures these criminal and criminal personnel in its structures, both those from the Belgrade underworld and those who have, through the institutions of the system, like this one who, to my general branch, appeared in front of the National Assembly building with all of this team of friends and friends from G17 plus Dragan Gilas, and those others who, in the right sense, are the bearers of the most criminal affairs in our country. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that after this argument which took the arguments of some international character because examples have been cited from the entire planet Earth, it is unnecessary to do something like this in our country, that it is expensive and that it is one project contracted by former Minister Dusan Mihailovic to give up on it, and that, how much tonight, you start bringing in those responsible for organised crime and Serbia's robbery. With the arrest, let's say Dragan Gilas, for whom there's a basis because really a man has been hoarding himself so much by selling air, his income is several billion dinars a year, over the rest of that mob association DS and others, and their identification at the police station, you take his fingertips, take pictures of one, another profile, anphasus, you have a clear picture of the fight against organised crime. Besides, what they're doing, it's a kind of terrorism. So you will start and fight organised crime and terrorism in Serbia, because when they terrorise citizens through such laws that they have left for you, through what they are doing robbing and through the National Office and other sources of funding this poor people, then you can simply show that you are willing to change something, as Minister of the Interior. By applying one law and entering the system of making such identification cards, against whom much more developed countries have rebelled and their governments, and even in Britain today, so many times mentioned, after the change of ministers in the government of this villain Tony Blair and the collapse experienced by his Labour Party there, conservatives are announcing, which is their right, and what we are going to do with many laws in our country, that coming to power in their country to abolish one such law. The issue of respect for human rights that has been mentioned so much today, the various international, European and other conventions, is something that we are used to not respect when it comes to ordinary citizens. These individuals who are protected as white bears, of course, enjoy all the privileges, so all the media are available to them, so that everything that is most dirty and disgusting these days and against the MPs of our party, Mr Krasic, and against all other Serbian radicals, and when you need to protect the citizens and tell them that instead, it is better to have the environment, as they are administratively called, or local self-government units, with the help of the state to do the social cards that are necessary in our society, you say - what are you talking about? Then you wonder why in the largest number of Nordic countries and Sweden there is no such ID card, because it was much more important for them to identify each citizen of their country based on his social status. There is no such thing in Serbia, and that is why today we can, unfortunately, only speculate with such data, whether 2.5 million people are below the lower poverty line, while Gilas and others don't know what to do with the money being robbed by citizens, or what it's like for children who are in preschool age, as it is for those who are in primary and high school, people who have lost their jobs. Advocating such a law and this contracted deal with Motorola has started a former ministry headed by Dusan Mihailovic. This spokeswoman, who you later replaced by coming to the ministry, Milicevic, who served as head of Serbia's IT administration, went as far as to explain all this on the basis of contracted equipment. Indeed, it is a question for you, and you can also understand as my parliamentary question, how much at the end of the implementation of this law will cost citizens of Serbia through additional police training and a system that needs to be applied. He even said they would be so effective as to be police officers because these computer mechanisms that will be applied and 300 work stations are more complex and serve to use the criminal police, so that 660 small handheld devices that will be carried on the street, on patrol, will be ordered, so that 1,500 work stations and 660 transmission devices, with installation, will be delivered by Motorola for 20m euros. Payment is said to have been postponed to five years, if we started to pay for it and the question of whether at all, of course, it will be about 20m euros for start-up, in the end it is unknown, and that Serbia allegedly received the most modern biometric system, because in the UK, comparisons will cost the replacement of ID cards much more. First, they have a larger population, and secondly, you see that the whole state has rebelled against it and that those who are there are the coming political forces seriously and openly say that such a law will be abolished. One of the main arguments that was heard back then, and I see you're not changing that story, is that this will help fight organised crime and terrorism, which is the greatest evil of today and who the whole world is fighting, and that it will be prevented and reduced. The question arises, since it is indeed a hollow and empty story about the inability to forge such protected identification cards, from the world's largest known companies, or banks that issue credit cards, counterfeits in Singapore are made for two or three euros or dollars. And then the question is, do you believe that these are systems that no one else and organized terrorist organization that has a foothold in certain countries in the world can do, and that they can't do it, and that they're not in a situation where Americans, who are both political and logistical, can't do it, whatever support you want, because at the time of the shooting with them, they've mostly found weapons that are U.S. productions, they're not able to break into the whole system for them and give them what they want. Then you will now live in persuasion, or the citizens of Serbia, that they, because they do not have that ID because they are not listed in our system and have not applied to be issued this most modern ID card, cannot carry out terrorist attacks and move smoothly. You can see that nothing prevents them, because the state is not agile enough to protect our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, even where you think that the Serb population is protected in a certain way, and in fact where there are no Serb armies and police, of course no one is protected. But here, there is Mr Kragovic, northern Kosovo Mitrovica and this whole section towards the administrative checkpoint, is there not a logical question, how it is possible that there are terrorist attacks on the part of the village of Žitkovac and Grabovac for the last 15 days. One young man was killed, two were wounded and attempted to wound the protoire, his wife and two children. That, of course, is not any certainty, because it was also said by those who have been in the UK for a long time and engaged in intelligence and counterintelligence affairs, and worked in the police, and of course came to the knowledge that all these opportunities, and that such a centralized database, along with a country that is in many segments through the operation of various, particularly NGOs, have been seen to you many of the last days, especially yesterday and before, in its extremely anti-Serbian functioning, in a certain way as Swiss cheese. Then it is for terrorists and for all enemies of the Serb people such a database is such a gift of choice. Whether it's the Ship's bandits, whether it's some others who are enemies of the people and of the state, and about the excellency of that model and the way of identification, about the fact that it's against people's codes, people who believe, and even disagree, in the most part, our churches and all the others who have rebelled against it, should be sufficient arguments for you. In addition, two laws were passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a few months ago, or at the end of last year, and we were then trying to explain to the Minister of Agriculture that he was not proposing such laws, and we simply said that you would later install such chips to people, knowing that one of these laws would come on the agenda. I think that the law on animal protection or veterinary law, both laws provided that through the registration of animals in Serbia, the installation of chips in the ear of an animal is to register to see if that dog is registered, whether it belongs to someone and whether it has its owner. Since you're on that path without spending this much money, because of course it's a joke at the end, but a really serious question for all the poor citizens, who don't know if this is going to cost 20, 50 or 100m euros, you could then apply the system that introduced that ministry and those two laws, and that by registering and installing chips in each Serbian citizen's ear, you're doing his identification. Only in this way can you explain what your real intentions are and is it possible for you to be so open, in addition to the opposition of all these countries and all the protests that have been mentioned, Greece in 1997, the whole of America to which all these are called, and especially those from the DS and there pay "Cocuse" to fight Serbian radicals. You see, we're over 40%, and they're 20 and lower than that. So you could think about saving and what would be more appropriate to us. The fight against organised crime and the protection of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija should be your priority and that you spend money, it is millions of euros, not one of these new systems, which is qualitatively nothing will bring new to the citizens of Serbia. The only question is, since these reading units and these small computers that Serbian police officers will have on them are mentioned, in case any of Serbia's citizens don't take with them a new ID card, how much will it cost for not having it with them. Now it's, I think, 1,500 dinars if a police officer finds you and you say they'll have their checkpoints all over Serbia. Don't cause any more anger and anger to poor citizens anyway, which are usually police officers from the traffic police, as counterpart Jojic says, waiting in some woodwork behind some bush, cap, come out and stop and take a few thousand dinars for a traffic violation. They can always find that. By how you have to pay it, and again from the citizens of Serbia to take this new system, I assume that thousands of dinars will cost, or be the penalty for not owning it, or if you don't have this new ID card on you. I think the argument is ours, this brochure from which some of the arguments we read to you and which is called - For a life without a stamp, because citizens don't like to be stamped, but only to be branded and to be severely punished by criminals in this country, that you have enough arguments to give up this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27651	The People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27652	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, dear fellow MPs, the G17 Plus MP will of course vote for the adoption of this ID bill, because we think it's one over-needed law. Most of the previous speakers pointed out the fact that this is about a law that is mostly technical in nature. I don't think I'd go along with it. It is that this law first and foremost implements and enforces some of the rights arising from the Law of Citizenship. However, when the text and the consequences of this law are interpreted a little bit more carefully, I can say that this law is of a much more far-reaching importance. I'm not going to repeat what most colleagues have already said, about modernising the government, I'm not going to repeat how citizens will make it easier to exercise their rights, let's just say in taking over credit, and what's current these days. I would only hold on, in my opinion, to the most important segment that this law allows. We are aware of the fact that we live at a time when every modern state in this world is faced with prevention and the fight against terrorism. Terrorism, unfortunately, is a global evil and you cannot fight it by limited means, in limited space and in limited time. You must do so in cooperation with other states. So what allows this ID card is, above all, easier flow of information, easier exchange of information and easier identification of a person or identification of a person. I don't know, somebody already mentioned, we're using a ID card that was passed under the 1974 I.D. Act, so over three decades ago. You can't use modern challenges, such as terrorism, I'll repeat once again, fight with the means prescribed 30 years ago. On the side of what Mr Aligrudić showed, about the decomposition of the map, about easy counterfeiting, that you can do, were simply different social and technical conditions at the time. Unfortunately, everyone here talked about the fact that there is no identification document in certain countries of the modern world. Protests in Greece are mentioned in 1997, the UK is mentioned. I'll remind you that this attitude after the attack on New York and how it changed. The legislator, like most legislators in modern states, faces one fact. Like, he was dressed on two sides. On the one hand, how to maximum respect for human rights and on the other hand how to make the fight against terrorism more effective. In my personal opinion, the legislator, or legislator of this law, was able to comply with both criteria. Here are the stamps, the chips. I'll remind you of what article 7 of this law contains. He says that the following data are entered in the ID form: last name, name, gender, day, month and years of birth, place, municipality and country of birth, unique birth number and, what causes doubt in most, image biometric data, i.e. photo, fingerprint and signature, and nothing more. So all the stories that come out of George Orwell, Big Brother, just don't stand here. Exactly what the ID card form contains is listed taxively. Some of the scenes from the James Bond movies were mentioned here. It's not here. That you can track through this, and most of you have cards in one of the banks and agree to these cards and get them. No one cares that these banks have the same database and no one cares that these databases are much less protected than this database that is required under this law to be implemented. So I wouldn't take any more of your time. I think this law is actually done correctly. I am particularly pleased that Mr. Minister and the Proposer have responded in a timely manner that the remarks we had on our part. Two, four, two, two, two, two. We believe this bill is indeed correct and I repeat, the G17 plus will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27653	The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by Zoran Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not repeat what the MPs of the SRS today have said about this text of the bill. However, what I personally believe was that, if something had to be done on this project and did some innovation on the ID card, in my deep opinion, it could have been only going on amendments and additions to the law, and in no case at all on the proposal for a new legislative project. In fact, most of the provisions of the bill are not unknown. Taking into account the numerous laws relating to the identity card, which were published in Official Messenger No 15/74, 54/77, 57/80, 45/88, 40/88, 53/93, 67/93 and 48/94. In my deep confidence, we are not going to reform this way in the extent in which the proposer believes that this will make it easier to deal with organised crime. Serbia has a professional police force. The methods of identifying citizens in the former SFRJ, SRJ, and today in Serbia are primarily the methods our country has taken over from the countries of parallel law. The basic document on the basis of which citizens' identification was made, more specifically, a personal card. The identity card contained and today contains the basic elements for identifying the identity. One of the most important methods is Vučetic's method, a famous dactyloscopic collection, i.e. The fingerprints. It's an unconquerable method in Europe. It has been taken over in other countries outside Europe and is now in use. The identification of papillary line prints is one of the most significant and from birth to the death of the immutable characteristics of each individual that differs from any other individual. The application of the personal card law, which was updated in 94, contains introductory remarks, as also contained in the bill's proposal, that the ID card is a public document proving the identity of a person. Second, that this ID card, according to the applicable law, serves as evidence of other facts contained therein. This 94-year-old law, which is novel, contains 24 members, quite summed up, precise and concise. A word or two about Article 4. I believe that in this article, it is envisaged that foreign citizens and stateless persons living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are issued a personal card in accordance with a special law. Personally, I think that the identity card, not the stay and movement of foreigners, could have been included in the proposal for this law, because in this case we would have included our citizens, and also foreign citizens, by developing two to three members who are rights and obligations and when they have the rights of foreign citizens, under which conditions to issue them a personal ticket in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As for Article 5, the identity card shall be issued with a five-year validity date and children with a two-year period and no later than the end of the month in the calendar year when they are 16 years old. Personally, I believe that the applicable provisions on the validity of the identity card are far more acceptable and that the five-year deadline, or two years, is very short, because that is why citizens are exposed to costs, bullying and shagging. I'm familiar with this matter when it comes to the records, the issue of ID cards, the storage and use of that data. As for Article 8(2), the ID form also contains the protection elements prescribed by the minister, but it is not seen here which are the protective elements. It should be prescribed what are the protective elements, not by sublaw, but by being introduced here, to see what protection mechanisms are in this norm. As regards identification, as proposed in Article 10. The draft law, the person referred to in Article 5 who, according to nationality, religion and national customs, wears a cap or a scarf as an integral part of the costume, or clothing, may be photographed with a cap or scarf, in accordance with the rules on how to take biometric data. This is a very delicate question. It is very important that persons who have any part of their clothes can, above all, take advantage of the possibility that their identity and description of the person will not be credible later, if this is not possible when issuing a personal card, when identifying the identity, accurately and comprehensively not being fixed, photographed, especially if it has scars, especially the age of the person, hair color, shape and length of the nose and all the characteristics associated with the description of the person, which has worked extremely well for us and produced the desired results. As far as Article 12 is concerned, I think it's too high. Why? It was more appropriate, as in the current Article 3, the rights and duties of each person over the age of 18, or now 16, to have an ID card. The Proposer considers it necessary to write a special standard on the truthfulness of the data contained in the form when submitting applications for the issue of an identity card, which is contained in Article 13, because on the basis of Article 13, the issuing authority, which receives the forms, shall immediately seek evidence and documents on the basis of which the application is to be submitted and on the basis of which the identity card should be issued. So, I think Article 12 is too high. As for this deadline for issuing your ID card, 15 days I think it's short notice, eight days is enough to issue your ID card. First of all, given the fact that we have a sufficient number of administrative workers in the police, many trained, who may request that they issue an ID card within eight days of receipt. That's the up-to-dateness of the administration's authority. I expected the police, however, in this regard, at least the police administration, to be able to respond faster to their demands. As regards the confirmation of the application, it is justified, because the confirmation, in particular if the citizen has come to the particular deadline within which he is due to apply, he submits a request, but the authority issues a certificate to him, that he, when a legitimate officer, shows that he has submitted a request to the competent authority for the issue of an identity card and with that request and a reception stamp, he proves his right, that he did not miss the deadline. This is also disputed in Article 19, if the photo on the ID no longer fits his appearance, and that's controversial. When it comes to Article 23, he is in collegiate with Article 22(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the missing ID card is found invalid by the competent authority. Against the solution, as Mrs Radeta Verica, MP of the SRS, has said, the appeal is not allowed. The provisions of Article 23(2) shall apply. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia -- each one is guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision that is resolved on his right or on a law-based interest. Why is this so important? It may not appear to be, but it is. If the citizen who submitted the application lost his ID card, but found it, he filed a request, the competent authority has reached a solution that now declares an invalid ID card, but in that case a citizen who finds a subsequent ID card can file a complaint or appeal, and in that case there is no need or solution to issue, the competent authority will abolish his solution and the citizen has a ID card, is not exposed to costs or waste of time. As for Article 27, you see, the ID must be up-to-date, accurate and safe, protected from unauthorized access and use. Speaking of this provision, there is no sanction for anyone who oversteps authority and abuses the personal card records, and the other one here is not in the law exactly who will answer if this provision is violated, which elder in the internal affairs bodies, or the police. Therefore, there should be a precise determination that one who leads to abuse and is violated by Article 27, in which case someone will have to answer. There is no mention of any sanctions in the absence of abuse in the use of this data. Same thing when he's a member of 28, you see, it's not clear here. It says - the competent authority may provide data from the records to state and other bodies and organisations, as well as legal and physical persons, under the following conditions, and under one, that the data-seeking entity is authorised by law and other regulation to seek and receive such information. What subject is that? This is where the subject has to be indicated. As far as practice is concerned, it was only a court. He could have given the information at the court's request, not anyone. It may occur that some political party will be searching tomorrow for information about some political opponents, and that whoever is in power will give that information to his political party, he will abuse them. So, with no specific and demarcated responsibilities, there's nothing. In the end, there will be one misunderstanding, and there will be a legal gap left in which many abuses can occur. There is no sanction for one who abuses. You see, when it comes to criminal provisions in Article 29. I think, and I heard that both the predecessors, both the SRS MPs and the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and I heard that someone from other parties said that the fines provided for in Article 29 are very high, especially in Section 1. Imagine, with a fine of 50,000 or a prison sentence of up to 30 days, a person who does not have a ID card will be punished for violations of his duties. Imagine, a man has exceeded his deadline, turned 16 for life, it's been a week or ten days, he has no ID, he can be fined 50 grand or a prison sentence for up to 30 days. These are dragon sentences, this is inappropriate, especially in a democratic society. If we are in favour of democracy and democratic society, we cannot force a citizen who in time failed to apply for an I.D., missed a seven-day sentence, to be sentenced to a 30-day sentence. Or a person who does not submit a request within a specified period, as prescribed by Article 11 and Article 20(2). So, in one word, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that these penalties are absolutely inappropriate, regardless of what they are and the Law of Infractions are prescribed. As for the cost of applying this law, the cost is very high. If that's true, and if I understood correctly, that the equipment, plus 300 executives who are supposed to be working on making new $100 million ID cards and giving you another 20 million, now I'm going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, that 100m euros could increase the salary to the police, to all the police in Serbia who have... I believe that's what Mihailovic was buying, probably, that equipment. For the value of this equipment that was purchased during Minister Dusan Mihailovic, you could pay 333,000 and 330 salaries per 300 euros to police members, and I know that the unbalanced part, and even less retail and administrative workers, do not have 200 or 250 euros each of their salaries. That amount should have gone, if nothing else, to improve the material position of members of the police, their families, and they are doing and doing extremely difficult jobs, primarily unbuttoned and with their lives. Also, you see, Mr Dusan Mihailovic has acquired a 100m-euro equipment. For 100m euros, gentlemen, the Serbian government could buy 8,330 tractors of the middle category and give them to individual agricultural producers to produce bread and to arm this rich Serbian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27655	The People's MP Zoran Stojanovic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Gentlemen of the Ministry, I have listened carefully to all my predecessors and I am trying to make one completely different approach and criticism and the justification of such a proposal. But I'm going to do something completely different than I planned. Namely, this proposal for a ID law is one of a group of reform projects. Its foundation is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 20(2), whose provision provides for the collection, processing and use of personality data, and provides for the same regulation by law as in Article 72(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of human and citizen rights and freedoms, which my predecessors so carefully spoke of, fearing that the rights and freedoms of citizens would be compromised by this project. I completely disagree. It is one law proposal that exists to strengthen the protection of rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and on the other hand to facilitate the work of state authorities and the state of Serbia itself to identify a person. Namely, the matter of ID cards in the Republic of Serbia was arranged, as my predecessors said, far away in 1973, by the Law on Fundamental Data for Personal Cards, as well as the 1974 Personal Card Act. These laws represent an organic continent together with the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners, which was adopted in 1980 and which is still in force. So, for more than 30 years, we've had one of these forms of ID cards. She was changing something small, just her coat of arms, just her form. In the 1970s and 1980s, this ID card was tighter and stronger in terms of the material it was made, so I can't figure out that we're going to go on in life in the country of Serbia with a ID card like this. I can't deal with that. What is most important about this bill, in my understanding, is actually the fact that it is necessary to create normative assumptions for the introduction of an integrated automated system for the personalisation of identification documents, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, an electronic primary identification document, i.e. It's just a personal card. So together, much like I said before, we contribute to better functioning of state bodies in terms of identity identification. I would also point out what is being achieved and what is the aim of this bill, which is to bring it into line with European and world standards, recommendations and directives of the European Union, Interpol and Europol, which my predecessors have said, and which is one of the preconditions for including our country in European integration. It enables the prevention of new forms of crime, which rely on the abuse of modern technical and technological achievements, as well as the modernisation and improvement of the organisation and methods of work of state authorities, local self-government and public services, on the one hand, and the effective and rational achievement of rights, obligations and the interests of citizens, on the other hand. It is important not only from the point of view of the exercise of fundamental human rights guaranteeing full protection, but also from the overall efforts taken on the international agenda in the fight against new forms of crime, in which it is a quick, correct and reliable identification of individuals of crucial importance. Some newspapers, which I think some fellow Members of the people, with deep respect for them, have a little bit of a banal understanding, are also important and will bring us closer to the advanced world and to the advanced countries, which is very important. So, we've been alone a lot, we've been out on some negative stuff. I think this matter is important and should not be underestimated so easily. Article 8 to which many have called, which is that the ID card form contains space for the contact microcontroller, i.e. the chip and space for the machine-readable area for the purposes of automatic data reading, into which all visible data are entered on the identity card, as well as data on citizenship, residence and address of its owner's apartment and unique parent number of their parents. This last thing I read "their parents", some opposition colleagues, I say again, with deep respect, say it's impossible. I think that's absolutely possible. If it is possible for us to collect data not only about our parents, not about our wife or wife, not only about our children, if they are full-aged, but also about the sister-in-law, about all those people we are in close contact with, when we can do it, and for one such thing, as is the ID card and how we can. A little while, a colleague, a graduate lawyer, Mr. Jojic, mentioned fines and the heights of those fines. I absolutely disagree with that. For what? There's no punishment everywhere in the world for the people to tear themselves apart, to take people's money. Penalty or sanctions exist to protect the rule. So this group and the set of rules and normatives were done that way and protected completely well, and that's why the height of these penalties is so high. Anyone who respects the rule won't pay the penalty. It's very simple. The DSS will vote for this law and, as a man who comes from southern Serbia, I am delighted to have one of the most beautiful IDs in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27657	The People's Messenger Radisha Ilic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people took Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this bill, apparently, was written before the referendum in Montenegro, which is seen by certain members of this bill, although the SRS sincerely regrets this outcome of the referendum, since the secession of one part of the Serbian country has been produced by organised mobilisation of the Shipar and other minority members by the separatist bloc, but therefore, when it comes to power, the SRS will, by law, regulate the rights of Serbs, not only those living in Montenegro, but also Serbs from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Macedonia and all other states. This law has a lot of shortcomings, and these shortcomings will have the SRS through the amendments submitted trying to correct them in some way. What is the biggest newspaper, as far as this law is concerned, is contained mainly in Article 8, which has been discussed by most of my fellow MPs from the SRS. Article 8 hides the main reason for Serbia's citizens to step completely unconsciously into, I would say, a globalist trap, thanks to a new ID card. I note, this is just the first step along the way of total control of individuals by the state. In my discussion, I will mostly talk about this article 8, because it is very interesting. Serbian citizens should know something about this paper, not only the good news, as state media is public, but also the negative ones, which can cause great harm to a citizen. First of all, in many countries of the world, including the United States and Great Britain, there is a very strong resistance to the introduction of such personal cards. In Australia, for example, they calculated that this process, which would take place within seven years, would cost them as much as $820 million. In addition to the price of the system, there is a price for maintenance, training, losing these tickets and damages caused by their implementation. Why was a proposal to introduce such a way of identifying citizens, or ID cards, withdrawn in the UK a few years ago? Because of the huge cost of costing. Citizens should also be explained that in time they will have to scan individual parts of the body for identification through such ID cards with chips. So far, all we're predicting is taking fingerprints, but somewhere, you're already taking a long-eye shot. In Sweden, for example, for some of these types of documents, photographs are made that predict the photo of a person from a semi-profile so that you will necessarily, you will not believe, see one ear. They even forced people to put their hair away when they were photographing to make that ear visible in that legitimacy, so that's exactly the situation in Sweden. The explanation here cites the advantages of this kind of data reading, so it is suggested to citizens that the ID will be given in 15 minutes, that abuses have been disabled, that many crimes committed will be discovered, which is the normal thing we welcome. There is also talk of a more effective repression of terrorism in this way by issuing the ID cards. What has been shown in countries that have introduced such identity cards is the easy integration of all other documents of that same person into a unique personal database. Thus, the entire automatic reading system includes driver's licenses, traffic permits, bank cards, health and social security cards, so that the supervision of each individual is complete. Simply, in this case, a man comes down to a number that one push of a taster can be erased. On the other hand, criminals won't sit on their hands. It develops its own programs that will destroy this identification system. The world's most famous banks, which certainly invest more than the state in terms of protection, were unable to prevent the emergence of counterfeit chips cards and the success of a country that disproportionately invests smaller funds for these issues. It's just a hoax. Of course, the MUP will argue that secrecy is guaranteed, that the data on the card is cryptographically protected, etc. But who will they be available to? The national database will certainly be linked to international systems, Interpol, Europol and so on. And that's how our data goes to Europe. In addition to our data, which is why I really don't understand, we're looking for the parent numbers of our parents. So someone abroad will be given an insight into the entire structure and number of the population as many as three generations back. In this way, it can be said that police infrastructure is being built in Serbia, so when someone comes in as high representative, as we have in Republika Srpska, they will have everything they need in hand. As for the facts that are against this idea, they can be classified into multiple groups. From the point of view of human rights, such personal cards will primarily affect freedom of privacy. The individual will be reduced to a number, and the government will start running technology instead of applying the law and communicating with the public. And now there's that other factor, I'd call it a religious, religious moment, because there's a stamp mentioned here, in a way, and you know from John's revelation, where the mark of the beast is mentioned, so it's said that no one will be able to buy and trade who doesn't have that mark of the beast. I would remind you only of the Greek protest, which was discussed by my fellow SRS MPs, where a million Greeks ten years ago, headed by the patriarch of the Greek Orthodox Church, protested the government's intention to solve the issue of a kind of identification cards in Greece in a similar way, and according to the Brussels directive. Also, a question of lost and stolen ID cards would be opened. What if the entire system of that central computer goes down, I think someone was talking about it, or maybe sabotage is being sabotaged? Criminals, of course, follow technology, so they perfect themselves. As we are now under the obligation to give prints for such ID cards and to get our own chip, which guarantees that the next operation, over a year, will be no installation of the chip under the skin and will again be justified by the government for obtaining a directive from the EU. A good campaign is being made on the benefits of this project, laws change in the state, and then the whole world is being put to the attention of the so-called. The world's shadow government. What is also very risky is the ability to transfer such prepared and arranged data to a totalitarian sect, thanks above all to their members who have infiltrated significant functions and who have made these data available with a goal and time. This is just the beginning, and the finals will represent when all the day-to-day anonymous actions, starting with simple card payments, to street ID, according to the method of automatic reading, are united and recorded. Simply put, a man will be in the position of totalitarian state control, as described in the image of the big brother by George Orwell in the novel "1984". The last thing will be very likely to create DNA databases and that will be the end of human freedoms and human rights. It would be easy today for Carla del Ponte to catch Ratko Mladic if he had a chip under his skin, but fortunately, he's gone. But these globalists are thinking about a million new young men, putting in our chips in time to chase us. This is just an overture for what's coming. And finally, when some of the laws that the Serbian assembly has passed so far are reviewed, it can be seen how the shadow advocates of the "nuj" act. So last year the Bologna Declaration was passed through the law on higher education, so the law that legalized sects, so here are the chips in ID cards, it's the law on gender equality, and it wouldn't surprise me if soon some draft law on marriage between the same sexes was found in front of the MPs. And here, by vertical, the lower laws are one after another, whose essence is just hidden in the programs of numerous organizations and sects of a new age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27659	The Messenger of the people is Sredo (Mihail). After him is the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27660	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, since I've been in IT for a long time, so that's about 38 years, I'm going to say this time just because it's about my profession, but I have to do a little period first. I wanted to tell one story, but I'll tell two. A little over 150 years ago, a railway line was to pass my village, and then there the farmers of the evenings increased and decided that the railway would be at one 300, perhaps 500 meters from the village, so as not to trample their geese or pass them near the village. And a little less than 150 years ago, my Elemirs walked 500 meters from the back house to get to the railway line. Or they offered to build a spa, and they didn't want to, they let it go to the Melenci, the neighboring village, and now there's a spa in the Melenci, and we don't have it in Elemir, because then we don't have ours, let's say, the councilmen didn't have the sense to do it. Now it occurred to me, while I was listening to the previous speaker, one slide: The Vikings are going to war, they really want to get into the ship and some of them are coming and they're offering them a rifle, and they're going to say to the shields and swords like that -- let go of that nonsense, we don't have time, we're going to go to war, when we get back from the war, we'll see what you're offering us now. So, gentlemen, let me tell you, I'm very proud to have been a participant in the assignment of a unique home number of citizens. The unique number of citizens has replaced that impeccable IDN number or the number of IDs that are now missing, and that code is both speaking and identifying, only you own it, is mutual and unequivocal. You have identified yourself with that code, with the name you did not, if you were called Peric, there are more, but when you wrote JMB citizens, you uniquely identified yourself, by having the code and speaking part. In law I see, maybe my colleagues were thinking about it, maybe even in the ID there wasn't supposed to be a date of birth because it already exists in JMBG. But it's not the biggest problem we've missed, there are others. So, with 13 numbers, you have uniquely identified yourself in the state of Serbia. You with thirteen numbers, to remind you of that famous bar code, the sticky code, the remote code, you identify all the products of this world, you know the country, you know what the manufacturer is, you know what the article is. Imagine we don't have EAN code now. I talked about it 15 years ago, to save our store, it doesn't matter, what happened. Now you can see that we're doing great with that EAN code, not just for VAT, but for supplies, for merchants, for sale, for planning, and not to explain to you what it is. The I.D. isn't brought in for criminals, it's brought in humanely, it's just a pooling of documentation, which your previous colleague was talking about, but with sarcasm, you gentlemen, it's enough to read to you JMBG, to know what your blood type is, if something happened to you in traffic, or to see a history or therapy you've been given there by a doctor. It won't be available to everyone, the doctor will be transparent and available information regarding the doctor, not your jury account in the bank. Let's not scare the people, talk nonsense. I'm for pooling all the documents. We hit the first stake, we haven't hit the foundation yet, we've just defined the code and ID. Our foundations are yet to be built on this further, to unite all these databases. There is a system of protection, my colleagues know very well, there is a system of protection and of those hackers you mention. By your logic, as you've spoken, we know there's money in the bank and then, since there's bank robbers, we don't keep money in the bank because there are people thinking about how to rob them. There are people who think and how to protect them. So in our business, there are those who think about something, and there are others who think about it much better, and hear and make data protection from unauthorized use, from destruction and all these wonders. By the way, it's a science fiction that we've been broken into, for good, and I accept that we're having fun. But, gentlemen, we've come in a modern way, we can't go back, and we just need to improve. Even in that chip that you were talking about, that would fit in, what do you think is bad, if someone knew where you are, if they could help you, intervene at some point, what's wrong with that? And that fashion you're talking about, I know that well. The Americans and the English of pure fashion said - we don't want to be numbers. That's what the Swedes did, and now they've accepted. We don't want to be marked, it's pure modernism, they're recorded in thousands of other ways. I'm sorry we didn't bring a lot of these laws in the field of information, because it's just coming and I respect it, we should have done it before, we're late with that ID card, but I think this is the right time, that we should say hello and support it. I don't think there's any objections, with any small remarks, I don't want to say anything bad about this law, the G17 plus will support it. It's not just reform law, it's the law of the future, on which all the information, the functioning of the global world will be the basis. Don't kid yourself, we're late, we've lost our mark in the Yugoslav Association for numbering products, we've lost the country's mark, there's no more SCG, and we're going to have to change that, a lot of things are in order for our information future. I think we should be very happy to support something where we've come closer to the world in a technological sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27661	Thank you, Mr. Michael. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, the remaining time for the SRS parliamentary group is ten minutes, followed by MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27662	If we go over these discrepancies that may be dictated and the time since the bill came into the assembly procedure, I would at first point at what really depends on the concept applied in writing this bill. I'd like to draw your attention to Article 1(3). The bill and I would recommend that you intervene with the amendment and delete this position, because it does not belong in this bill at all. I fully understand the intention that is present with you, however, this attitude should be relocated to the Law on travel documents. By content, he's supposed to be out there looking for a place. For the sake of the public, this is the attitude that it says - if it is specified by an international contract, the ID card can also serve as a travel document. The identity card is, above all, a public document, which serves to make citizens prove their identity. If this is an identification document, then you should also define in that sense the data needed for the identity of a person. The identity of a person based on a blood group, pupils, etc. is not determined. The most basic information for identifying one person is those that should indicate the name and last name, date of birth, gender, and possibly parents, residence, possible place of residence, and probably the end. That's quite enough for an I.D. The identification data corresponds roughly to the data expressed in dissuasion of any condemning judgment of the criminal court. All you're going beyond that is something that indicates that you've gone beyond the law, beyond the scope of the matter that needs to be arranged. So, whether a country will accept our ID card as a travel document, solve it by bilateral agreement, settle the travel documents law, but don't use the I.D. law, because it doesn't belong there. The next thing you know, you have no right to propose laws and to clearly manifest in these proposals a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has Article 8, which says that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of the Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, and the Latin letter is in official use by law, etc. Principle Article 9. The bill could also be accepted, but what is referred to in point 1, where the data is also presented in English, you are practically defining the letter and language of the public identification. In what way? The obvious opposite of what was prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We cannot accept such a thing because we are all bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. That's the second I hope a very clear provision. What I said at the beginning refers, first of all, to Article 13, where you gave the data nomenclature to be entered into those records. You need to find a better formulation for article 19. It's a member who's talking about banning the use of ID cards, so the following is still about issuing a new ID card. The owner can't use his ID card, so you listed four reasons. Here's to mention this second one, if the photo on the I.D. doesn't match his appearance anymore. Be careful, the reason why the use and use of the ID card is prohibited is stated, and who determines that this reason has occurred. The one with the ID. On what basis will he determine that? Did you foresee any warning from the competent authority? If someone's ID'd him and found out that in the I.D., the photos with the fact that they're in the field don't match, so warn him, sir, go to the M.O.P. and change your I.D. That's one situation. The reason for not using that I.D. was established by the body, not by myself. This is how you wrote that you practically always bring in a man who's in a state of crime. Because of his subjective assessment, it depends on whether there was any reason set out in point (1) to (4), and then you go with one provision that he is obliged, etc. But who's warning him? Who's to say the reason came? If he's the one who needs to determine that, then how can you punish him? He may look pretty in his picture, thinks he hasn't changed a bit. Let's take this other case, where you have that I.D. is damaged or for any other reason does not serve a purpose. Somebody warn him and tell him, sir, please, this I.D. you're using is maimed, etc., go and replace it. If he doesn't do it, then he may have committed some kind of a misdemeanor. This is where they left everything to the citizen and his subjective judgment. It's a bad solution to the application of this law. You've probably missed this, and it's about a member who regulates the situation of an invalid ID card. In Section 3, you wrote that the person whose identity card has been declared invalid is obliged to advertise it in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia on its cost. Please, if there is already some procedure before the competent authority of the MUP that the identity card is invalid because of the occurrence of these situations, etc., then the whole process ends with that organ. A new identity card is required to be issued and advertising requested. The body shall complete the procedure. That's how much it's gonna cost a citizen, it's the cost of the process, but this is how you leave it to him whether he's going to advertise or not. You're bringing him into a very unpleasant situation that he should be waiting in line in the Official Messenger, so whether he's published in this issue or in that number. Advertising invalid, because the procedure to be taken at the request of the party, but carried out on official duty. You're applying general administrative procedure. You can't obligate a citizen, you know what, we've determined, but you have to announce that it's invalid. No, he's gonna pay the advertising costs, and you're gonna insist on the official messenger to be published in order to inform him that he's been released and that he can come and take over another copy or a new ID card. This is how you put a citizen in an awkward situation again, that it's up to him to maybe forget and get into a situation to pay the fine, etc. I would not much like to comment on Article 28(2) on the use of this information. I think Article 28 is significant, because it really points to the need to finally create a unique register of the population in the Republic of Serbia, that when a citizen is to exercise a right and when he has to prove that he meets the conditions for the use of a right, he should not go around for a copy of the birth certificate, citizenship etc. when there's official records about it. I agree with these information achievements to access the database with the proper code and get exactly what it takes to exercise some rights. Because if this is how we go with this formulation, that every other person is interested in what is supposed to have some legitimate interest, and you probably didn't formulate it that way, but that's how it relates and that it can use that data, then it's abuse, literally, to choice. Possible abuse. It's a principled remark, and I don't want to repeat what some of my colleagues have pointed out before me. However, I would like to draw your attention, it is not nice for everything proposed here to be represented by a European standard. If that's a European standard, then tell us why the French don't have this. If the French don't have this, does that mean they're not in Europe, but where they are? You've heard that the example of Greece, you've heard examples of some other states. I think that this fear some have expressed about these codes, the microchips are not baseless, that's where I have to distract you, there's a lot of reason to believe... (President: Mr. Krassic, time. I'm going to finish now. So it's believed that there is a possibility of these abuses. I don't have time for this right now to read, I have here a study relating to the CIA, NATO and these other institutions, and even studies by some scientists from the United States, the views of the European Parliament. Mr Jocic, just to get to know you, the European Parliament called for non-lethal weapons in the resolution on the environment and security and foreign policy, in Articles 23, 24 and 27, to put that term under control and regulate its application, and it is also called to prohibit the development of weapons that enables any form of manipulation of people. On the occasion of the discussion on amendments, we will take advantage of the opportunity to introduce you to concrete research as to how people who are named and last name and their titles guarantee something published in the world press, you have these achievements on the Internet. Don't just smile to reject all these doubts and hunches of the possibility of abuse of these encoded characters that you intend to put on your ID card.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27663	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Mr. Homan was last reported on the list of MPs. You have nine minutes in total. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27664	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, a lot has already been said about this law today. Just a few things I want to say. First, I received a letter, a press release from the Association of Photographers of Serbia, objecting to Article 14(2), where it is said that persons first issued their ID card, with a request for the issue of a ID card, attaches the photo in the prescribed size, etc. It is not clear to them now whether it means essentially that they will lose their jobs, i.e. will they be able to photograph people for the ID or just the first chance. When Article 10 is looked at, and I suppose you could finally clarify that, because when you look at Article 10(5) where it says, to determine identity, etc., biometric data is obtained (photograph, fingerprint, signature), and in the last position of this member it is said that these biometric data from Article 5 of this Article are taken in a manner prescribed by the minister. And since that photo is involved, maybe some clarification would be useful to them. In addition, I have heard that you have accepted the initiative that some legal and technical editorial from Articles 10 and 22, as far as I consider there are no more members where Serbia-Montenegro is mentioned, that Articles 10 and 22 change that and that it is only Serbia, given the emerging situation. I'm glad you accepted that, so we wouldn't have to change the law soon. As far as other matters are concerned, this law is, you could say, more useful than good, because there's nothing to be good at, it's one technical law, and it's extremely useful for many of the reasons we've heard here and needed our country. What is surprising, which is that we've heard a lot of opponents of this solution today, who are crying and afraid to say, have gone to Europe. It's a very strange thing. Our data goes to Europe, our data goes to the world government in the shadows, etc. The biggest observation is that these cards can be easily falsified. I'll remind you that today's ID card, as well as many other documents that are in circulation, can be very easily falsified in the house, and it's enough for you to have a scanner and a color printer and you can forge from a personal card and, of course, documents that aren't as important can pass as forgeries. Of course, nothing is certain and nothing like this is being copied today and protected disks, money and all possible documents, so it is possible to copy and forge this identity card. But here on the card, that's also to say, there's this chip and to fake something like that, you have to either buy a new chip or steal someone's card, and then simply reprogram it, it's an epim, it has to be erased and reprogramed, which isn't so easy and it's not really available to everyone in the household, and it doesn't seem like it's easy to fake. In any case, it's a lot harder than the I.D. so far, and it's supposed to have a really big motive to forge an I.D. However, all these remarks are the result of fear of modernization and I understand the people who fear it. You still have people in Serbia who think the computer is life-threatening and that if you surf the Internet, some Big Brother can immediately find out about you and steal your soul, so I understand these people, but that's progress that not everyone can immediately understand. Sometimes people were afraid of photography, they were afraid of cars, they were afraid of a lot of things, because it was all new, and the refrigerator, yes, they were scared of everything, but in the end, they either just adapted or disappeared. These retrograde forces will either adapt here and here over time or they will weaken and disappear. It's been like that everywhere, so it's going to be in Serbia, and that's what I'm sure of.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27665	The first word is Minister Jocic, so Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27666	As far as photographers are concerned, they will be able to photograph and attach it as one of the elements for this ID card.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27667	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I was speaking in part about Big Brother Orwell and Animal Farm and 1984, let's just get this straight. I'm not an idiot or anything, so it's got to be explained, you're afraid of refrigerators, photos, or I don't know what. I am ready to compete with those who are very advanced and European in the knowledge of language, the knowledge of computers, in everything you consider to be the most advanced and important. I think that our children, first of all, should learn in these spheres to thrive. I didn't realize that this had anything to do with all of this, except I said it was true, that it's another way of controlling the privacy of certain people and destroying one of the rights that belongs to universal human rights, I can't say the last generation, but other generations, it's the right to privacy. If someone can't understand it, and if they're going to say it's because they don't understand because they're going to go to Europe, no one's mentioned Europe, we mentioned Motorola, and through Motorola, these data go, and Motorola works for the U.S. Intelligence Service and the U.S. military service, and if they're going anywhere outside of Serbia, or if they're going to go to a central database, that's the same problem. If you think that it's different for me to control this or that thing, someone else, however, my privacy is threatened by whoever is doing this, not me, but any other citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It's just, in that sense, I find it totally incorrect for someone to talk like that, and now we're modern, and they're retrograde forces. It's such an empty story about these retrograde forces, and I don't know what it is, that sometimes I come to say that you're powers from the Middle Ages or powers from before the new era, or I don't know what it is, which is pretty pointless. Serbian citizens will plead and I think people will be able to assess enough who are retrograde and who are modern forces.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-08-0.u27669	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does anyone else want a word in Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. That's what we end today's work day. The session continues at 10.00 p.m. Monday.
