ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25851	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to press the corresponding key. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that no one has signed up to be absent. Before we move to the first item of the agenda, because of the need to meet the Legislative Committee in a small hall, I'm going to give a half hour break. At 10.45, we continue our work. [[After break 10,55-11,05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Churches and Religious Communities (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the National MPs Milovan Radovanović, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Penezić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Vojislav Milajić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Milan Veseinović, Bora Kutić, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Đorđević, Miroslav Nedeljković, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, Aleksandar Lazarević, together Sanja Čeković, Milan Ninić and Staniš Stevanović, Rajko Bralic and Miroslav Gusic, as well as the amendments that are based on Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Committee on European Integration. You have received reports from the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Europeans have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to withdraw this amendment. I am informing the Minister that I will withdraw the amendment that I have proposed to this member of the law. However, I just need to look back at something that you said in your opening statement, very briefly, in order to clarify some things. In your opening statement, if I am not mistaken, you said that I represented some enlightening dogmatism in my presentation. Unlike you, I believe that there is no dogmatism enlighteningly, that after humanism and renaissance all these enlightening movements have just advocated avoiding dogma in any sphere of human life, even in matters of faith, so I just want to say that we didn't understand each other very well. And as for some discussions and some MPs, to me dear colleagues, who found that my presentation was directly directed against the church and against God, I really couldn't even comment on it, except to invite those others who didn't say something like that to simply ignore it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25854	The People's MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25855	The proposed Article 2 of the Law states in its first position: "No one should be forced to compromise the freedom of religion, nor forced to declare his religion and religious beliefs or their absence. "I propose that Article 2 of the proposed law amends attitude 1 and that it reads: "No one should be subjected to coercion, threats or fraud (that is a key word in which I would insist on this change) which could endanger freedom of religion, nor should anyone be forced to declare his religion and religious beliefs or their absence. It is forbidden to ask questions that require citizens to be told about religion, religious beliefs or the lack of religious beliefs, except for the needs of statistics and the consent of citizens to whom the issue is being asked." Of course, after Article 2, a new attitude of 3 is added, which reads: "The church is separate from the state". It's something that stands in our Constitution. Decision proposed in Article 1(2) The bill only regulates the issue of a ban on coercion, which is insufficient. The proposed amendment for item 1, other than coercion, which in legal terminology means physical coercion, introduces other aspects of having an unauthorized influence on the conscience and actions of the rightholder, which are in the area of respect for freedom of thought, conscience, religion, of greater importance than the coercion itself. I believe that indeed today, when we have a phenomenon, many colleagues have talked about it here in principle debates, and various sects that are absolutely in some kind of expansion of certain beliefs behind which they are used by illicit means and perform certain actions, which are absolutely contrary to what the law provides, i.e. what is legally sanctioned, and which are also used by certain means that we can directly characterise as a insistence that a certain person, individual, is deceived by the law. I don't think it's enough just to name a term of duress here, but also fraud, so I'm asking you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25856	The word is from Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25857	Dear Members of the People, Article 2 of this law is so well-conceived that it contains appropriate standards within it, which provide practically respect for human rights, i.e. the part of human rights that is directly guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, standardisation of the word "force," in terms of this law, which I think is rightly the legislator who did not specifically explain the meaning of the concept, because it is obvious and logical, stems from the meaning of what it writes. If we talk about coercion, coercion implies a threat. If we were to talk about the possibility of someone being deceived, then we would open up one way to something that would be a debate about whether one or another religion is right, whether someone who doesn't believe in anything, someone who thinks of themselves is agnostic, etc. Therefore, in order not to deal with this, I think this formulation is in Article 2. The draft law proposed in paragraph 1 is indeed an essential formulation, a core formulation, which actually contains everything that is necessary in order to ensure the protection of those rights guaranteed by the Constitution. In view of Article 2, of course as well as in Section 1, it is actually said that no one can be forced to declare his creed or his beliefs or their lack of existence, the ban on the coercion of a plea in itself consumes all that is proposed in this amendment. Therefore, there is no need to further elaborate this provision. It has its core, integrity, and complete foundation. Of course, what is the subject of the Constitution and what can end up on the Constitution as a declarative norm, which obliges, such as the separation of the church from the state, it is indeed something that finds its place in this act. However, there is the development of this topic, the development of this thesis, which is very important for understanding this matter, which is that there is no state religion. In that sense, Article 2, paragraph 3, finds its full justification, because we already have an axiomatical attitude of separation of the church from the state, every church or every confessional community from the state as such, and then we have a thesis that says very simply - there is no state religion. This means that none of the religions that exist in the Republic of Serbia can be regarded as a state religion with such attributes. It's just a development of the constitutional principle, and prescribing the constitutional principle to the law itself doesn't mean anything at all. Therefore, as a MP, I consider Article 2 to be extremely precise, extremely balanced, quite core and in such a way that it does not leave the possibility for different interpretations when it comes to the protection of human rights and its application. So I suggest that this amendment not be adopted on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25858	One moment only in order to respect. National MP Meso Omerovic and Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me, since I did not take part in the debate in principle, in the interpretation of this amendment, and using the time that we are about to have, for a few minutes I will refer to something that has been happening and what the honourable minister said in his explanation, and then I will try to further strengthen the argument of my colleague Nestorovic regarding Amendment 2 which we submitted to Article 2. It is clear to all of us that the adoption of this law, a very important law on churches on religious organizations, is premature. It had to wait for me to adopt a new constitution. Because the new constitution, unfortunately, cannot be brought before the final status of our southern province, AP Kosovo and Metohija, and after the results of the referendum in Montenegro. After solving these two, I would say, state and most important issues, we may also be able to approach something that is the jurisdiction of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when we determine what our territory, where our people are, which is the scope and what kind of jurisdiction of our territorial institutions, and only after that would it be logical to bring one like this, I repeat once again, a very important law, what kind of law on churches and religious communities, which would then have more lasting solutions and full legislative legislation. So, if this law is passed while these issues are not yet resolved, I think we're going to get into something that's going to be temporary, and I think it's an inadequate solution at this point, when we look at both the political situation and when we keep in mind all of this that I've been saying about solving state issues. Mr. Minister, in his presentation and exposé, which he had at the beginning of this item of the agenda, explained the law, among other things, and said something that stands in the light of the objectives of this law. Well, in order not to read everything, as target number three, the minister has led to the harmonisation of our legal system with the legal system of the European Union in the area of achieving religious freedoms and rights. Now, that's all well written, however, given what all the representatives of these same European institutions, which we are seeking and with whom we should coordinate in the coming years of our legislation, have said and what their opinion is under the proposed text of the law, I fear that this argument does not "drink water" or at least it is not true. In fact, from the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the largest part of NGOs, and we heard of course after the sixth version that representatives of some churches, therefore, had serious objections to this text of the law that came into the procedure, so that seventh version as they call it, and especially to us as MPs, should be the most indicative fact that the Committee on European Integration had a session, because this committee was declared responsible for this law, and the chairman of the committee, Ksenija Milivojevic, had strong criticism on the basis of this law. And in principle, I agree with everything she said on both the Committee and the public, but now something like that has happened, I would say in some way and cynicalally. The same committee empowers President Ksenija Milivojevic to defend the Committee's proposals and conclusions adopted by that committee by voting for such a law, including amendments that have arrived today, which I see have also been accepted by the Legislative Committee and it seems to me to be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the key question is whether such a law contributes to this integration of our legislation into European legislation, and the minister said in his exposé "that the most open, most lively, much-lived dialogue with Europe had a Serbian Orthodox Church and a Roman Catholic Church, but any political party in Serbia". Simply, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that this statement has disaved all the work that was made by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, who is in charge of European integration, which was invested by the Committee on European Integrations of the Republic of Serbia and some other very important institutions. Mr. Chairman, will you try to reconcile your fellow Members? (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Theme. The theme is, Mr. Aligrudić, the law on churches and religious organizations. I couldn't imagine that, behold, Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus is conducting negotiations with the European Union without the government knowing it, because this is what the Church and the Roman Catholic Church are doing. And what is particularly important, and what is contrary, I remind you once again, with the European standards and opinions of the most relevant European institutions, with which the proposing himself has carried out a whole series of talks, it is also contained in the opinion given by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, therefore some kind of "higher ministry" because it still belongs to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, whose Serbia is just one of the members. And that ministry has made clear objections to provisions contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and have pointed above all to the inequality of churches and religious communities. I'm going to remind you of the much more important laws that this country has been shaking, and we've had to apply international law. International law is therefore stronger than our domestic legislation, and we have accepted it, and as a country that is a member of the Council of Europe, and as a country that wants to enter that same European Union. So I think that the amendment of my colleague Ljiljana Nestorović and mine, which she has read, is actually an attempt, and I think a good attempt, to sublime all of this and in the opinions of these relevant institutions, both domestic and international, and I think it would be worth considering that this formulation of the amendment in Article 2 and accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25860	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic. One moment, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Then Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25861	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 2. The draft law on churches and religious communities, which was submitted by a fellow MP, has its basis for some to be accepted, but some do not. My personal opinion as a MP on the subject of this amendment depends on the strategy of the state body, i.e. the competent ministry and Mr. Minister, as we wish to have the law. We also heard in the presentation of Mr. Minister, when he explained in principle the reasons for the justification and the adoption of such a proposal for a law on churches and religious communities, why this law was passed to the National Assembly, but we are in discussions, in particular the MPs of the SRS, heard why it is good in some way, but also why it is not good some important, essential solutions from the proposal of this law. Of course, Article 2 of point 1 states: “No one must be forced to compromise the freedom of religion, nor must he be forced to declare his religion and religious beliefs or their absence. "What is there to resent this attitude of Article 2? In my opinion, it's almost nothing, but it can be rephrase this Article 2 with the same meaning. And if we, this is stressed in several places, as a democratic society we want to have civilised, modern law, we have to respect the religious freedoms and rights of everyone, absolutely everyone but not those found in certain religious groups, organisations, associations and from that aspect act harmful to society and the state, then we cannot accept such an approach, especially that such an approach has the opportunity to restrict the freedom and rights and religion of another citizen of our country. Now, about who restricts freedom of religion here, it's very important for me to say a few things. Someone will tell me - Mr. MP, we are talking about a bill on churches and religious communities that should apply in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and will be right. But from the aspect of the protection of the Serbian people, we must react to the fact that these same rights are being denied in the Serbs of Croatia, to look back at the eternal union and the transition to Catholic religion by force. From 1991 to 2006, or according to statistics by 2003, when 30.000 Serbs were coerced, or crossed, by force. This isn't about the work of the Roman Catholic Church alone. I can be free to say that this is about pure, defined proselytism, violent crossover and the translation of the Serbs of Orthodox religion into Serbs of Roman Catholic religion. The state has to react to that. What's he doing, I'm not gonna use some ugly word, foreign minister, and I'd love to say about this pay phone because he deserves it, but I won't. What does Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic do? Why not send a protest note to competent international organisations, the European Parliament that is so keenly fighting the functioning of religious sects, a parliament that is fighting for respect for freedom and the right to confess to all citizens of Europe and the world. We discussed this and adopted the relevant resolutions on 29 January 1996 and 4 September 2003. The state of Serbia should react to usurpation, discrimination, harassment and the greatest form of violation of freedom and the right to religion of a number of Serbs in Croatia, and Serbs who remain there to live and Serbs returning to the Republic of Croatia. You should, Mr. Minister, I didn't hear you react, you should do it because it really is a violation of the oldest rights and freedom of the people at all. Wars are waged in violation of these rights and freedoms, not to mention examples through history, crusades, wars in Germany, the last wars in our space, the civil-religious war on the territory of the former SFRY, so the current war between Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland is enough to tell us that the replacement and alternative to these endless conflicts, due to the diversity of religious beliefs, must be tolerance to the belief and religious freedoms and rights of all citizens of the world, of all nations of the world. So Serbs also have the right to believe that they belong to a certain faith, to the Serbian Orthodox faith in Croatia, and not to be forced and forced to change their faith and to break into another religion, to be members of the Roman Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25862	The word is from Ambassador Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 2 of the Law is summed up and clear enough. "No one must be subjected to coercion, nor forced to declare his religion and religious beliefs." The proposed amendment tries to amend that member in one way that does not stand. I'll quote part of that amendment. "It is forbidden to ask questions that require a statement by citizens about religion." What does that mean? It means I can't ask anyone a question of religion, and I have to remind you, I'm a doctor and often the name tells a religion. However, some members of a particular community do not suffer from some diseases, and you must ask them what religion it is to be able to determine in a diagnostic procedure. From what you're suggesting, I can't say anything about it. Therefore, a member is quite enough as proposed and any other extension of that law would lead to great confusion. Another thing I'd like to mention, whenever there's not enough arguments there's a story about human rights - a story about human rights. Let us leave these problems and try to resolve in our country the laws we have rights to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25864	Replica, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25865	I believe that my fellow MP, who spoke before me and challenged something I said, I misunderstood and I believe that this law, proposed against whom I have certain huge regrets, also simply defends the coercion on who is who, whether or not he believes. It's simply one Constitution guaranteeing every citizen's freedom. Of course, every citizen has the right to appeal to his religious beliefs in certain situations, for example. And in a situation where he's subjected to certain treatments, let's say in a hospital where he doesn't agree with his religious beliefs, it's simply his right and it can't be challenged, but it's a citizen who can consume his right, and no one needs to force him, to force him to consume his right. We had almost a situation where the Ministry of Education in Schools conducted a survey and in that survey there was a question in which parents were asked to declare their religion, and we had a situation in which a large number of parents rebelled against such a poll, believing that it was a deep entanglement primarily in the intimacy of their families, and I think that their protest is fully in line with the fundamental constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizens, which is that the right to religion is the right to believe. A complete matter of personal freedom and that absolutely no one has the right to question anyone about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25866	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of Rules of Procedure 100 and 104 have been injured. The 100th article was injured in a way that the colleague made a point that I didn't understand it. It's an insult to the MPs. Article 104 is not to talk about the subject to be spoken about. Here, a different opinion on the same problem, a different understanding of the essence of this problem, is used to bring out completely different views and opinions, and then we won't have an end to this discussion. So I ask you, Mr. President, to warn each of the MPs to speak only of the subject and of what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25868	Mr. Kojcic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25869	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this law has one feature that not only recommends it but certainly can place it amongst those political acts of utmost importance for this country, which is to bring two things together. To combine reality on the one hand, to canonize some relationships that are already or at least there is a tendency to establish and, on the other hand, fully fit into the expected value system or what is called a horizon of the expectations of the European Union, and yet it is a society for which we have defined ourselves and that is, in any case, the society of the future. However, what has already been heard in discussions for several days on this subject, which is a violation of the religious rights of our citizens in neighbouring countries, is precisely the adoption of this law that it has the role of showing Europe as well, and that it can show Serbia's advantage in resolving civil issues and, as such, I say, a guidance on legislation in neighbouring countries. So, today, if we can fight something, we can fight those values that are written in the Civil and Political Rights Pact, therefore, European definition of this problem. As for the fact that this law should also be passed after the adoption of a new constitution, the legislative activity in this congregation must not stop and it will not stop because a new constitution is expected. That's a formal question. As for those remarks, the questionable territorial domain is the jurisdiction of this law. First, this is the Republic of Serbia, this is the law passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the same thing I would like to say, for us and Kosovo will always be Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25870	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and the People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic, and then Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25871	At the beginning of today's debate on amendments in the introduction, I would like to highlight what I threw out of place two days ago, I hope that when we get to Article 3. A bill of law, that the proposer would understand how wrong he was with one of these proposals. Here's the thing. Formal-legislative there is nothing principled to object to an amendment now on the agenda, an amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Formal-legal, there is nothing to blame for even the text of Article 2. It's a bill of law. But there's something missing in both variations. First of all, there is no way to correct the error of Article 1(1). Mr. Radulovic, if he wrote this to you, this law, one of these experts like Mirko Djordjevic, a philosopher from Šimanovac, although I recognized some of his ecumenical nebulosis in the opening statement of yours, there is nothing. For the sake of these young MPs, let me just say, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, we are on that ground, not on the ground right to freedom. There is no right to freedom of religion, but there is freedom of religion, it belongs to that set of basic rights, human rights of every man and citizen, it has been drawn out. The question is whether freedom of conscience or freedom of conscience came from the freedom of religion. Probably that first variant, because in today's Masonic-protestant view of human rights, dating back to 1789, it's not hard to conclude that religion existed far before, so it's likely that conscience came out of religion. There is no right to freedom, there is only freedom. That's the basic problem of this law. That's why you couldn't understand Mr Nikolic when he said at the beginning of the opening presentation that this law, from the view of the Constitution, should be a law on freedom of religion. You're churches, religious communities are all about political organizations. How? The right of citizens to organise themselves politically, to think politically, to be politically active, comes out something that the association of individuals as a political party, so you see the church as an association of believing citizens, and you put it in the same plane, the same basket. There's a basic mistake. That's why there are problems defining all the members that follow. There is no need to define freedom of religion. The whole law, if you had the concept to do it, it should contain only what is stated in Article 3, to work out what restrictions are necessary for a civilized democratic society in the area of freedom of religion, when religion is misused at the expense of society. That was supposed to be worked out in a few members. Probably the Registrar, where they're supposed to enroll, but who's supposed to sign in. You cannot enroll churches that are older than the state, to enroll only something that may have some social justification and much more from the point of view of the European Court of Human Rights' views, but from the point of view of some seriousness. We're all aware of the situation that under the guise of freedom of religion, if it doesn't pass by this law, it will pass as an NGO. You have Kirby, it's also some sectarians out there, selling vacuum cleaners, they have a ritual. When they come in the morning and before they go to sell, they pray there and meditate, yoga flyers, and then they go to sell vacuum cleaners. They can be a company, they can be NGOs. This seems ridiculous to you, but you insult the church with this law, with this concept of the law, you insult the church, the serious church. I make that difference myself. There's that black international, and especially for Serbs black, with Roman popes, with the Vatican, that's the question, I don't want to enter anyone's religious feelings, an individual. I confess to everyone his religious feelings and we don't talk about it. When I talk about churches, then I'll make some distinction between those churches, which is necessary to be heard here. Mr. Minister, I'm simply confused that at the time this law was passed, the Ministry of Education brought an act in number, please write down 601-01-1/2006-01/37, dated 12 April 2006. So, on the 14th and 15th of this month, district competitions were held in the fields of mathematics, biology, chemistry, geography. Someone from the Ministry sent this memo, where some children qualified for a republican contest just for their religion, because they declared that Roman Catholics, the glory of Easter, should not be placed, they go directly to the republican contest. Then why are you writing something like this in Article 2? Is that not attitude 2: no one can be disturbed, discriminated, or privileged. Please, someone's going to the math competition because it belongs to a confession. That's what your government does. If you don't believe me, I gave you a number, you have a stenogram, a memo number, sent to county places where the competition is being held. I thought the county competition was a qualification for a republican knowledge based on geography, and now it's based on a religious definition, maybe it's not a man's definition. There were 150 of them in Novi Sad, 120 were competing, and 30 weren't, they said it was done. That's how you apply existing regulations. You're looking for something new, European, you're building an EU approach, you're making access to human rights. Here you are, because of this small audience who may not know all this, by 1914 the greatest opponent of human rights and democracy was the Roman Catholic Church. The social doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church was such that there were no such individual rights. What was Voytilla doing? He broke up our country with a story of human rights and democracy. That's what a worm changes its attitudes - Roman Catholic. The SPC never wanted to interfere with what's global. That's why in time, since we're going to apologize about these amendments, especially the amendments to the SRS, about this amendment that Meho and Ljiljan filed, I'm just trying to show you that you've come into an indecisive situation. You have nothing to refuse in principle, but yours is also empty. Why? Because Article 1's first position contains a mental feller that defines the whole subject of the law, so we're getting into a situation somewhere to type in something that's the inner organization of a church, order, etc. We don't have that right. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to the International Pact on Human Rights and Freedoms, we can only settle some of the questions that are necessary to effectively achieve freedom of religion. So we're in the field of what it takes for Article 3 to work out to preserve the right, that is, the freedom of each individual. And over here it's overrun and it's provoking the MPs, there's almost no member who has no amendments, traditional churches and religious communities have been provoked, they simply can't cope, it turns out someone needs to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25872	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25873	Article 103(1) So, you have to talk about the subject. First of all, I will remind myself that here the debate is in particular, therefore, it is possible and there is no possibility to divide all of this strictly, every member of the law that is spoken of, every amendment submitted to a member of the law gives a certain reflection in relation to the whole. Therefore, it is impossible to avoid it. I know that, but it is impossible to claim the following, therefore, while in the position of Article 1, Article 1 is said - everyone is guaranteed the right to freedom of conscience and religion - to take as a basis for a systemic or mental error of the whole law, and then to talk about everything else, except the proposed amendment for Article 2(1), which is suggested that this member be changed and said: "No one must be forced, threatened or deceived, which could endanger freedom of religion, nor must he be forced to declare his religion and religious beliefs and their lack of existence. It is forbidden to ask questions requiring citizens to declare religion, religious beliefs or the lack of religious beliefs, except for the needs of statistics and the consent of citizens to whom the issue is being asked." That's what the amendment stands for. Of course, Article 2 paragraph 1 of the Law states: “No one must be forced to compromise the freedom of religion, nor must he be forced to declare his religion, religious beliefs, or their absence. "So, when it comes to formal determination that the amendment is formally invalid, the Legislative Committee would most likely declare that amendment legally impossible, i.e. I would suggest he refuse. Since that is not the case, but the amendment is obviously formally correct and is clearly legally possible, the discussion comes down to the question of consistency. Indeed, I would also ask the chairperson to try to focus the discussion in parliament in such a way as to really discuss the integrity of the amendments submitted and, of course, in the context of what is the principle issue, but it must be, first of all, in relation to the consistency of the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25874	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would really like to remind you that the debate of the bill has in principle passed, that we should talk about the bill in particular and stick to the subject. The People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Đorđe Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25875	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, very briefly, I have reported on the multiple claims that we are constantly referring to some European legislation, and I would like something from that aspect to say about this amendment. Otherwise, this amendment, submitted by colleagues Omerovic and Nestorovic, in this second part of this position, is only a development of the first part of the first position, but I think that legal technique and legal logic are unnecessary and that prenormation in the laws is essentially avoided. Since the ovamatter that governs this member and constitutional category is defined by the Constitution and international documents, the resolution on human and minority rights and religious freedoms, I think it sufficiently defines what is defined in that resolution, that we have not received any objections from the Council of Europe to this member specifically, nor has the Venice Commission mentioned anything in this article. So, as for freedom of religion, or banning religious discrimination, they absolutely have no objections. I would ask you to pay great attention to European legislation, to the Council of Europe, because this matter in Europe is not arranged in a unique way, as are some other areas. There are many examples of this and not to mention the state church in Greece, which is an EU member, not to mention the impact of the church in Slovenia, Austria, Germany etc. So if you go to Bavaria to go through Germany, you'll see that every school has a cross at the entrance before you go to school. Therefore, this is not the subject of regulation of European legislation and we must be very careful. Finally, just to point out that the EU Association Office has given a positive opinion that this law has given it a statement of compliance with European regulations, i.e. with the Council of Europe's document, so that this is the only document that we are harmonising this law with.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25876	The word has an MP named George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25877	The solution proposed in Article 2 is good and it is actually a solution that exists in international conventions. The amendment proposed under Article 2(1) is bad. First, coercion and threat. The threat is a mental coercion. It consists of putting a certain evil into look. Force in a narrow sense is physical coercion. So, in a broader sense, it contains psychic and physical coercion. That solution is bad, and the Criminal Code provides for what is coercion. As far as fraud is concerned, she's being mentioned here in everyday terms, in a colloquial sense. In the Penal Code, fraud exists when someone leads a person astray or leads him astray, so that that person would do something harmful to the expense of his or her property or property. In an asset-legal sense, it is also a fraud to lead and maintain in error that someone would do something to harm their property. So in this sense, as it's predicted here, it's not good. It was probably a hoax. Deception means something else entirely in our regulations and should make a difference when it comes to deception and deception. Then, on the prohibition to ask questions that require the public’s statement of religion, freedom of speech also includes the freedom to ask whether some religion is a person’s freedom to answer or not. In addition, as provided for by the ban, a proper sentence should then be foreseen, because as expected, this is more of a blank criminal act, and then punishment must be provided, so the amendment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25878	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25879	Mr. Chairman, one piece of information. I am told by citizens from several parts of Serbia that there are no tones in the transmission. Are we playing congregation here or what we're doing? It's a really serious subject. If you can, you can see with a direct transmission service, a public service RTS, which is why it's happening. If the tone is interrupted, anyone can speak, where, in the context of some half- sentence thought, only people can see that they open their mouths and talk without the citizens hearing anything, then further work doesn't make sense until it's removed. Indeed, and I ask you to intervene in the jurisdictional department.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25880	We'll check that information. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Kurjački, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25881	I wanted to report for a comment that was made here by one of the previous speakers, and this amendment. It's a skill to use a pay phone and call on one subject, and then talk about something else. If someone did not participate in the previous principle debate, then we should not now abuse the debate in particular, to return to the principle debate. I need to comment on some things that don't stand. It is stated here that, minority, this law is forced by force, because many NGOs were against certain solutions, so the president of the Integration Committee pleaded against it and the Committee voted. Or the claims that some traditional churches had serious objections, then it is worth a little comment. So, what are NGOs and do they always have to agree to every legal proposal? Of course they don't have to. It's a democratic fluid that someone agrees, that someone disagrees. What are the objections of the Venice Commission? So many times the issue has been raised, but no one has concreteized and said what the objections of the Venice Commission are. I'll read the main recommendations briefly. He says, "to limit the discretionary powers given in this draft, instead of leaving it to be arranged by the minister of some future sublaws." What's so controversial about that? If the promoter felt that it should be arranged just like this and if at this point no further developments can be foreseen, it is normal and in every legislative project some sublegal acts are further discussed by implementing certain provisions. Next, "to ensure the guarantee of religious freedoms of unregistered groups, especially in the part of gaining legal personality properties". It was right here, especially by the MPs of the SRS, that a lot of objections to certain religious organizations that we can call in the jargon sects, which cannot be registered or, if they register, and in this law it is very clearly specified how they register, if that condition is not met, then they cannot have the property of a legal person. It's exactly that dam that such organizations can't get into the legal system with us and that they can't function. Why would that change? (President: Time.) () Since I am running out of time, I don’t talk much about the objections of the Venice Commission, which are mostly about the subject. Therefore, if the chairman of the board or any member of any committee votes against or has something against, that does not mean that the committee must be unison, the minority must be subordinated to the majority. Therefore, there are no objections that this law is forced to force itself, there are no objections that it does not have broad support. It's just the other way around, and this law will certainly be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25882	Replica, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25883	I think the Venice Commission was very precise, and it is not possible to minimize what it has put in place as an objection to this law, precisely the greatest accent, by putting certain things not to the end defined and leaving a broad discretionary right not only of state authorities, but of state. Because many members don't even mention what state authorities are obliged to do, but it just says, "I do." It's not a way to define a law with precision and quality. I don't think that these are minor and insignificant remarks that have been put in place, but they are very important and should be respected, not because they are only by the difolt of an international body that we should respect, what we have committed ourselves to, but I think it's useful for the quality of this law. So, if we're already talking about some objections and we're going to get into the essence of these remarks, let's talk from the point of view of what they really are, rather than demeaning them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25884	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25885	I suggest that in Article 3, which otherwise stands under the title - The restriction of religious freedoms, attitude 2 is reshaped. The proposed version reads: "Faith freedom must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to rank and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national or racial intolerance." My proposal is that Article 3 of Section 2 sets out the essence of what this law wants to change and that it reads: "The abuse of freedom of religion to challenge and encourage religious, racial or national hatred is forbidden and punishable. Especially with the accent on these last words, it's forbidden and punishable. I believe that this is a far more appropriate solution, given that the values are expressed in the position of Article 2 of this Law, both by international instruments, and by the Constitution and by the laws which are mentioned above, above all in the position of the 1st member, and in fact they reflect the essence of what the Proposer wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25886	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25887	The amendment that we have submitted, which Ljiljana Nestorovic, who has just quoted, belongs to those amendments that need to fix something that is contained in the basic provisions, and the work relating to Article 3. It is good, as we have just heard from the chairman, that the Committee on European Integration, which is responsible for this item of the agenda, has adopted the addition of the title above Article 3, so that the limitations and expressions of religious freedom are something that is appropriate and that may be consistent with the intensities and what we, as MPs of the SDP, have tried through these amendments to do to correct this proposed text. We think that the position of 2 in this Article 3 should be changed in a way that is quoted by colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic, precisely because of something that some of my predecessors have tried in some way to ignore and perhaps accidentally avoid deciting what the Venice Commission has said. I would like to remind you, the Venice Commission says: "There are some reasons to worry about this article, inconclusive influence, not registering some basic guarantees of freedom of religion and the risk of discriminatory application of some of the provisions of this bill." Furthermore, the Venice Commission says it is unclear how the request will be reconciled with a personal signature, which comes later in Article 20. The bill, with general freedom, which does not have to be forced to declare religion, which is contained in Article 2 of the previous law, especially in the light of something contained in our Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that I'm the conclusion that my colleague carefully quoted in so-called. The main recommendations, at point 2, to be precise, to read it all the way. "To ensure with certainty in Article 2 of this proposal or draft not to restrict the general guarantees of religious freedoms of unregistered groups, especially when it comes to the acquisition of legal personality." Therefore, especially if we return to what we as a state, or state community, and accept, because somewhere in 2003, we ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in September 2003, and it explicitly says, in the European Convention, that freedom of religion or belief can only be subject to those restrictions that are required by laws in a democratic society, in the interest of public security, in order to protect public order, health or morals, or to protect the rights and freedom of others. Therefore, we think that the proposed amendment, unlike some of the predecessors who have said that it is polluting matter, is in fact an explanation and more appropriate solution, given the values that you have shown both in Article 1 and in Article 2, as I see it, which will most likely remain part of that law, and especially bearing in mind what I was saying, trying to quote the provisions of international organisations. After all, and the provisions of our laws, adopted by the Assembly, or the parliament of the state community. I think that this formulation, the abuse of freedom of religion in order to challenge and encourage religious, racial and national hatred, is forbidden and punishable, is something that should be in this Article 3 in the modified position number 2 proposed by my colleague, Ljiljana and I.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25888	Minister of Faith, Mr. Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25889	It is difficult to accept this amendment because, firstly, nothing fundamentally changes with it and secondly, because the Venice Commission has drawn attention that this milder variant is also at the very edge of the danger of questioning freedom of speech. Among the many objections of the Venice Commission (at least I was the address that received all these remarks, I don't know which one you have and who analyzed, I know professors who did analysis for the Venice Commission), they said it was hard to prescribe that freedom of religion cannot be used by causing some impatience, because it limits freedom of criticism, public speech. That's one of the most sensitive issues in this area. Freedom of religion and freedom of speech are in the ideological system of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission of Two Absolutes, but these two absolutes often come into antagonism, into cohesion. We've heard a lot about certain churches in public these days. I can tell you, by the way, that some of the new Protestant churches are very upset by some of the discussions that were led here the day before and they're asking me now where and who they can sue for an insult. No one, because it is spoken in the congregation, because freedom of speech in the congregation is guaranteed. So, it's a complex question and I'm surprised that you who accept the Venice Commission's evaluations, this recommendation to reconsider whether or not to remain that position is further enhanced. As for objections to the legal status of religious organisations or religious groups, more specifically, those who are not registered and who do not want to register, the remark stems from a complete misunderstanding of Serbia's legal system, and I do not understand from which legal system and logic such an observation comes from at all. She looks like a sophistical. So the law is passed on churches and religious communities and then they tell you – okay, you protected the rights of all existing ones, and what about the nonexistent ones? All right, you guaranteed equality in front of the law for all who are registered, but what about the rights of those who won't register? Those who do not want to register have the right to freely cultivate their religious feelings, have the right to perform rituals in their religious groups, but cannot ask for legal status under this law. The legal person's status will probably be required under some other law, because there are religious groups and churches and religious communities that don't want to register at all, they don't want to register at all, and especially not as a religious community. They believe that by the act of registration, they lose some of their inner properties, enter a legal civilization order that is aside from their dogmats and their learning. They Work — How? They acquire the property of legal persons either through the association of citizens or the property of a legal person by establishing companies, publishing houses, cultural institutions, etc. So that's how they work in the legal system. Indeed, it is not necessary and it is not possible to foresee and guarantee any religious group that does not want to register – which does not want to identify its learning, which does not want to deliver its statute to the state body, which does not want to say what kind of internal relations within the group itself, which will not at least formally indicate how it is financed, where it receives funds for its activities, therefore, which fully boycotts the legal system, boycotts the state, which does not want to have any co-operation with the state – that this law does not get any less than it has to provide legal personality status. It's not possible. I think that observation by the Venice Commission was either mistranslated or people were doing it in a hurry. We live in this country, we know the legal system of this country, we know the constitutional order. If you can give me legal advice: how will the legal personality as a religious community get someone who does not want to apply and register as a religious community, but wants to act as a free, independent social entity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25890	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Excuse me, Meho Omerovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25891	Very brief, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, neither colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic nor I have spoken about it at all and the way you are now transferring it to us. First of all, that's where we got the wrong idea. And secondly, you'll allow it, and I think the honourable fellow MPs will agree with me, and I'm not guilty of someone in the government mistranslated, right? How could I be responsible for the wrong translation? I don't know French, I don't know Italian, what came as a report from the Venice Commission translated, it's how it is. Whether we like it or not, that's one thing, whether it's good or bad translated it's another thing. You know, we can't respect the Venice Commission and accept it as the top of international law when it makes a decision that in Montenegro, 55% should go out in a referendum, and when it brings something that we may not like right now, day-to-day or for some other purpose, then we call for bad translations or that's not so. I just don't think we're mistaken. It's really not our fault if it's the wrong translation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25892	The word has an MP named George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25893	Decision proposed in Article 3(2). The bill should be adopted. There's no mistake, but that's why the amendment is wrong. It cannot be said about the abuse of freedom of religion to challenge and encourage religious, racial and national hatred, that this hatred is forbidden and punishable. Well, that means use is allowed. It's an argument a contrast. Therefore, you cannot say that abuse is punishable without use being punishable. That is why there is no such solution in the bill, in that article and in the position. Otherwise, as proposed in the law is fully in accordance with Article 51. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights, where it is said that it is forbidden and punishable to challenge and encourage national, racial and religious and other imbalances, as well as to challenge or dissipate national, racial, religious and other hatred and impatience. Therefore, it is entirely in line. Only the Venice Commission, when it agreed to the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, makes the difference between hatred and impatience, so they are atheistic hatred, ideological and political, other hatred and intolerance, and are first-class national, racial and religious. This division is unacceptable. Therefore, the amendment should not be accepted, and the solution is very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25894	The Messenger of the people, Miroslav Nedeljković, has the word, and the Messenger of the people Aligrudić, and the Messenger of the people, Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25895	Here, I must defend this member, that is, the position of the 2nd member of the 3rd Government, from the amendment's promoter. What I think is the important thing and what might be the motive for submitting such a text to the amendment. Therefore, Article 3. says: Religious freedom must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property. It's something that the amendment is too much in the text of the law. I think it has to stay because it's very clear, precisely defining that it will sanction the functioning of destructive totalitarian sects. I don't know how it's gonna work in law enforcement, but this has got to be legal. As far as I'm concerned, I said a moment ago, motivation is a vague proposalor or signator of the amendment. I am somewhat sorry that they withdrew their first amendment, or amendment to Article 1. Then we might be able to say some things essentially. They have submitted an amendment to rephrase Article 1 to delete the words "in God". So it's not freedom, right to religion, to believe in God. Believe me, what does that mean? I liked to justify that amendment. Because if we draw out the ultimate consensus, it means that we can believe in something else, someone else, not God, and it can be a church, which can be either satanic or predict that we can bring Serbia back to a time of paganism. I don't see an absolute third option. So I would look at all these amendments through that bat, as the minister would say, from where they're inspired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25896	The word has the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25897	So, the amendment concerns Article 2, Article 3, and we heard from the second speaker what was the subject of the regulation of Article 2. The amendment is very simple, he says the whole attitude of 2 is changing, and now it says: "The abuse of freedom of religion to challenge and encourage religious, racial or national hatred is forbidden and punishable." This reminds me of the blank code, the criminal code. A little while, MP George Mamula spoke of a logical misunderstanding or even a contradiction that exists in the very text of this amendment, which implies that the use of freedom of religion, in order to cause racial and religious hatred or impatience, was allowed, which of course cannot be written. Secondly, the punishment of such an act is provided for in the Criminal Law, which is very explicit and very decadent of the provisions that have found their place and foothold there. What is the meaning of Article 3(2)? Proposal for a law on churches and religious communities? Just to protect, as my previous SRS speaker stressed, certain values that are subject to protection, certain rights, the right to life, the right to health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity, the right to property, and certainly to mention that it cannot be used by causing racial, religious and national hatred and impatience. But what is the meaning of this provision? Not to be a mere declaration. We must observe the provisions of the law proposed in our integrity and in common with other members of the law. We need to know that this law also contains those provisions on the obligations of the state, i.e. the state registration authority of the entities who want to do so. On the occasion of this registration, the Authority must adhere to certain rules. If those rules aren't in principle prescribed by this law, I don't see where else they might be found. Therefore, this law must be implemented in one provision by sublimating the subjects of the protection of human rights and freedoms that must be taken into account at the time when we want to register an entity, a religious community as a legal person. Therefore, the state authority must keep in mind that, when registering in accordance with Article 3 of a religious organisation, what is annexed to it and what it shall, under its official duty, learn as an authority when requesting registration, that all conditions are met in the opposite sense from this prohibition in Article 3. Therefore, the right to life, the right to health, the right to property, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity, and must not be challenged and encouraged by religious, national and racial intolerance. So those organisations that are obviously, it's perfectly logical, insist that they violate these principles will have a problem with those members of this law that talk about how the subjects register. And if someone goes one step further, so as an unregistered subject is in violation of these standards, the provisions that punish such behaviour are in the second law of this country and of course those provisions will apply in that case. Therefore, I do not see any reason for one blank, prescribing standard of punishment, which essentially does not have a sanction in this law, but is realistically in the second regulation, replacing one whole set of references to the protection of those human rights that are in relation to other provisions of this law, so that we can even discuss registered religious communities and churches in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25898	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin, after which Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25899	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this amendment should be accepted because it does not cover everything that includes a norm whose change is proposed. Article 3(2) provides that religious freedom should not be used by jeopardising the right to life, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national and racial intolerance. In fact, the amendment contains only a ban on religious, racial and national hatred and impatience. So basically the first part of the provision, the protective facilities from the first part of the provision are completely abandoned. So this norm as proposed is absolutely incomplete, as proposed by the amendment. As proposed by the law is complete and fully satisfying what is necessary. Article 3 itself has a point of view. Article 1 provides for freedom of religion, according to Article 3 of the restriction of religious freedom, so that the position of Article 1(3) states that only the highest acts, the highest legal powers, such as the Constitution, the law and the ratified international documents, can be limited to freedom of religion. Article 2 determines the criteria and what is what protects these restrictions, and, of course, protective facilities are the right to life, the right to health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property. The amendment doesn't cover it. The amendment cannot be accepted because it narrows down protective facilities and narrows down protection against abuse of freedom of religion. Therefore, it would not be good because it would practically allow certain abuses related to the protection of children's rights, rights to life, rights to health, personal and family integrity and the right to property. It doesn't cover everything. There's also a question here about the legal source of what we're doing here right now. I must tell you that it is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I always refer to the Constitution, and I will always do so when it comes to the laws that we bring here. This is Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or the provisions of the Constitution as a whole from Articles 11 to 54, which are called - freedoms, rights and duties of man and citizen. These provisions were made and adopted in 1990 and are in full compliance with all international documents. As for the acts of the Venice Commission mentioned here, I must refer to the amendments proposed by the European Integration Committee on April 18th. In no amendment, he does not call for an act by the Venice Commission or any act by the Council of Europe in any explanation. So, if the promoter considers that there is something we should stick to, some document that is not the Constitution and the law that has been passed in this country, or a ratified international document, I would ask that we have a document that someone is referring to. We have here amendments to the Committee on European Integrations, which are not called to the conclusions of the Venice Commission at all. So, if someone operates on that document, they need to attach it to the MPs, so that we know and see it. We're talking about a document that doesn't exist and that's unknown to the MPs. If you've suggested anything, please provide a document.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25900	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25901	Mr. Mihailovic, after this debate on the amendment to Article 3. The bill's only clear that I'm not a member of the Venice Commission's fan sect. You who love the Venice Commission, come out and have a nice discussion about translations and other things. We are in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and these religious sects such as the Venice Commission and other things, do not burden the people with these things. Mr. Minister, I'm talking about the wrong concept again. None of your supporters wanted to read to you that member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which it is written that freedoms and rights are enjoyed, the duty is fulfilled, and the law can regulate the way in which individual rights and freedoms of citizens are exercised. We are in the field so that this law, which, if it were reasonable, would have the title of a law on religious freedom or freedom of religion, we now have to regulate in the provisions the way a citizen achieves that freedom. Since you've taken a completely different concept, you've taken the concept that it's a right to political organisation, union organisation and all associations of members of a union, in this case a believer of a particular church, you treat it like a union or a political organisation, then we come into this situation to put everything and everything into the right member. In Article 2, you wanted to give a general standard of banning discrimination. What system? Write something from the International Pact on Freedoms and your Charter of Human and Minority Rights, something from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that is part of the human rights corps at the level of all international acts. Only someone who hates it can deny it, but that quality has existed since 1990. The second thing, in Article 3, you tried to describe the restrictions on religious freedoms and that's the matter of this law, that's the main matter of this law, that religious freedoms are limited and when. There is no principled problem here regarding attitudes 1 and 2. But as far as the initiative is concerned, the 3rd position that begins with "prohibited", and in the end there is no criminal provision, then that place is not there. The situation with many attitudes in Article 2 is quite similar. It's a bill of law. It's not a good norm when it's prescribed by the Constitution or by some international act. This law should regulate the way of achieving freedom of religion. You left with another concept, provoked these amendments. I have to tell you that only the SRS has consistently given amendments regarding how to achieve freedom of religion. Everyone else was giving amendments, I don't know, what the Venice Commission said, what Natasa Kandic said, what the B92 religious sect said, what the religious sect of Women said in black, what the religious sect Zarko Korac said, what the yellow religious sect said. It's all religious sects and you've just noticed what I've been paying attention to at first. In our language there is -- call me whatever you want, just don't kick my ass. We have churches here, religious communities, religious organizations, and then you go out nice and you say some people won't register because nothing depends on registration. They register as an association, as a company, and it still acts religiously and achieves some prominence, allegedly some religious freedom. The very idea of those who love money, what Rotarians are, the Association of Citizens. What are the Masons? The painters who put bags on their heads. They have some religious belief. In a broader sense, I believe in something, but it already belongs to a religion because by the decisions that apply in Europe, everything can become a religion. They believe in Maradona. In Spain, you have two people who pretend to be popes, and those are 60. I want to give you another review, why don't you regulate the way you're doing your religious freedom. Since Benedict XVI arrived, the Devil’s exorcising ritual began in Italy, and even at their theological colleges, they have special courses where they prepare to exorcise the devils. You know, in Italy, there are 10 victims of exorcising the devil. I know you're saying in St. 1st and 2nd you're saying that it's not allowed, forbidden, etc. How are you going to stop the papal nucia in Belgrade or the one who ran this diocese here, and doesn't even know what clerofashism is. You have the wrong concept of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25902	Just a moment, Mr. Wolfie, since it's your time, as far as it's concerned, you have nine minutes left. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, then Mr. Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25903	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I particularly address the citizens of Serbia, because when they watch television reports, and especially a report of what should be called public service, they cannot get a picture of what was really happening in parliament. If you followed the diary last night, it was a real shame. I hear these comments coming and it was worse than how the session is shown. It is true, Mr. Omerovic, that it was a shame as the session was shown. You know that as well as I do. Then they'll talk after how the program is being made, because I've heard, imagine, says one of the MPs has asked to reconsider the responsibility of Vojislav Seselj. There is no answer that only thanks to Vojislav Seselj could they take away the license or I don't know what. There's nothing we said. Imagine, his responsibility should be examined, and there is no reason for Mladjan Dinkic to go to prison. There's nothing else. There isn't. It just didn't happen yesterday. No one said that. It wasn't our replica. Let them do their job, just let them do it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not the government, we are not going to vote for the laws proposed by the government, and it turns out that we come, as we say, to the least of their democratic power, as they would say, in society. But I have to say that after everything and who's been looking for everything and how he's asked for the abolition of this law, if we were the government with the greatest pleasure, we'd just show them how we feel about their objections. Is it possible that, Mr. Ilic, on the board, you got this with fax B-92, where they're looking, says women at the black and Belgrade Human Rights Centre are saying something about the law, and now it's being shared on the board. They have the right to meet them three or four together, and to say whatever they want and whatever they want, and to express their views on anything. We are interested in what this has to do with showing up and providing official material to MPs on some committee of the Serbian Parliament. Do you know, Mr. Mihailovic, that B-92 has some influence on the Serbian Parliament, that it is an authorised proposing or something. I'd like you to explain to me, I admit, I'm not very smart, but according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the last 15 years, as far as I'm concerned, there's no way that an authorised representative has been or has been, in particular, on other issues, which are not strictly media, that B-92 is being advertised or I don't know any NGOs. Things may have changed in the meantime. I'm just waiting for the amendments to come along and we have to answer them. There's one thing you have to take care of here, I understand the promoters, I understand their intention and it's their political struggle to work in that way. Why else can't this be accepted? It can't and is not good because we, people, would re-expand secondary legislation, criminally and insist on it all the time. That you all agree with ideologically. And if that were all the way, we can no longer spread in any way, absolutely no way we can spread criminal acts to hundreds of laws. No one lives to capture them, no one alive can determine whether or not he committed a crime. Now I ask you, you say you should punish racial, religious and national hatred. Of course, it's constitutional norm and there's no doubt about it, and the Criminal Law has it. There's no question about it. Now I ask, how will the state apply it? Every night we have a hate speech against the Serb people in certain media, but every night. Every day, hate speech on TV B-92 is such the most orthodox possible hate speech, directly against the Serb people. When you say something against them, then you'll say it's hate speech. Now let me tell you, somewhere I told you about these DS guys, this biggest tycoon, Gilas, and this pheasant counselor, I said they're thieves, I don't know what, and they say it's hate speech. It's not hate speech when he comes to beat the messengers with sticks, it's hate speech for me to say he's a thief. Now I'm interested in who's going to tell us what hate speech is and what's not hate speech. Who will tell us when, how and who applies certain criteria. It's not in this country, I haven't heard of any racial intolerance, I really haven't. Where you have them or aren't normal or something with them in that sense is wrong, so they need the help of doctors, not law and competent state authorities. Religious impatience, at least so far, has not been when it comes to the religious communities that have been recognized. As for national impatience, it was in years of war, of course, but I don't think there is one in Serbia today, and I don't think there are any serious reasons for any particular concern in this matter, with all those who would eventually find themselves at risk of it being protected. I just want to point out one thing to you, which is that we can't have our conscience in Serbia being the one who's the worst, I'm really telling you, even if it's the only one, even if they put me on a pillar of shame. Not that I'm not the only one, but I see 80 more people like you here and I see in Serbia a lot of people like that who won't. I will not allow my conscience to be Veran Matic or TV B-92, those who are always against the Serb people, those who are apriors against the Serbian state, who would like to tear it down, who would like to humiliate it. And I'm going to ask the Radio-Difusion Council, here in front of the National Assembly, by which criteria they've been given permission, if they're given, and you know they'll give it to them. If you tell me they're objective, if someone says they're professional, then let's say nice things in this Serbia can, can whoever they want and what they want, but if that's true, I can accept the explanation, the occupier ordered. We know we're occupied. That's the kind of explanation I'm going to accept. Stories of professionality and objectivity, that they are a conscience of society, we will never accept that. Because people are increasingly expressing their desire for freedom, the desire for the existence of this country, that's why their influence is getting smaller and that's why the influence of their subordinates is getting smaller in Serbia and that's why we're going to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25904	Mr. Radovanovic, the time is up, no, it was six and a half minutes, so many words, no, let me tell you something, Mr. Nedeljkovic was talking and you didn't add up. I just got that information from the assistant secretary. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25905	So it's a member of the Fourth Proposed Law. Subjects, now if this is thrown out - corporate, as has been done by the adoption of amendments to the Committee, this Article 4 of the proposed law now reads: "Freedom entities within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organisations (hereinafter: churches and religious communities). "My proposal is for Article 4 to be changed and to read: "All churches, religious communities, confessional communities, other religious communities (hereinafter referred to as churches and religious communities), as well as religious groups enjoy the same collective religious freedoms, regardless of their legal subjectivity. Collective religious freedoms may only be limited in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of this Act. "He's the one we've been talking about all over the place. I believe that this division of churches, or religious communities to traditional and others, is contrary to Article 13. The Constitution of Serbia. I remind you, Article 13 reads: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or any personal property. "That's what's in Article 13. The Constitution even if we apply Article 13. The Constitution of this Member of the Law shows that they do not comply, as the proposed Article 4 does not comply with Article 3 either. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which does not distinguish between traditional and other churches and religious communities. Article 4 is the opposite of the principle of equality expressed in Article 6. The bill, which raises doubt and the principle of banning discrimination in Article 2, and we also talked about it, I don't have to remind. Every categorization is dangerous, even if it is declarative. The solution proposed in the draft law is contrary to the Constitution and international documents, as it allows for the enjoyment of religious rights and freedoms only to those organisations that are registered. According to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as the advisory opinion of the Venice Commission, the registration of religious communities must not be forced, and religious freedoms cannot be subject to such a restriction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25906	The word is from Ambassador Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the amendment's applicants just said that I didn't understand, and then that the minister didn't understand, I rebelled, and now I admit that I don't understand and I think that's the most important thing. What don't I understand? This amendment introduces a new concept of collective religious freedom. It doesn't say anything in the law. If religious freedom is a fundamental human right and a sense of every human being, I don't understand how now a new notion of enjoying the same collective religious freedoms. I can assume that it wanted, although a lot of people here have rebelled against that opinion of the Venice Commission, to find some kind of modus, to install what the Venice Commission says: "It should be possible that even unregistered religious groups should be legal persons before such discretionary registration. "Please, no matter whose opinion we take, in my opinion this amendment does not stand at all, because it essentially changes the law completely and introduces a whole new concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25908	The word has a minister of religion, Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25909	In principle, this question, as well as the concept, I apologize for taking my word, and I will no longer discuss this matter. Whether categorization of churches and religious communities is traditional and other discrimination – for a year and a half I have been discussing it with the most diverse structures and I think that the Venice Commission, which we call too often, has made it clear that it is not any discrimination. I think that this analogy is a little tense, what you quoted in the Constitution, because according to that constitutional provision, they're equal citizens, that is, but that equality would be reduced to some kind of totalitarianism if it were literally applied. That would ban us from having the first and second football leagues. So, citizens are equal, why should one team be first league, second league? Then why share schools in elementary, middle and high? In general, to make a difference, because this is not about a value criterion, this is about a historical criterion. There are traditional churches, traditional religious communities, there are new churches, there are those that were created in the 19th and 20th centuries, and there are Parisian and quasi-religious communities and groups that are almost zero every day. What's the problem? The problem is finding the right measure. What it really is is a public community in which citizens express their religious freedom, it must be different from something a small group that can believe, as someone said today, in a fetish. The dignity of the religious community or the dignity of the church is not achieved by someone proving to believe in something. He can believe, that he doesn't believe, that he believes in anything, and this law doesn't restrict him. But he lifts up his threshold; he cannot tell him, because you believe, and five others are gathered together, who believe you are a church or a religious community. Churches and religious communities are, I'm going to say something that you might be very critical of me, a dignified public community. That is, the dignity of the church and the religious community cannot be achieved by every group. He can't, because he must have tradition, he must have it because it's a spiritual elite. No one can now because they can kick the ball to ask to play on the Barcelona team, because last night you saw those people know how to dance. That's right. There is what it is. This law defends the principle of spiritual dignity, I tell you plainly. He won't admit any of the views of the Venice Commission suggesting that it doesn't matter what a man believes, how many people believe, so that this group of fans, music or what kind of ones, should be in rights, in dignity and opportunities to co-operate with the state, equal to the SPC. It's absurd, it's just reason away from principle. Nowhere does such a principle apply, nowhere in the countries that give these suggestions, no small group is equal to the Roman Catholic Church. Some experts from the Venice Commission come from countries where there is a state church and they say there should be none in Serbia. There is no state religion in Serbia, there is no state church (which is controversial, because de facto, by tradition, only that tradition has long been broken, we could lay the same right to have a state church like England; and we won't, neither will our church, not the SPC), but someone can't prove to us that because we don't have a state church, we don't have any. So we have churches, a state church, and you who have been under communism, we prescribe you to respect everyone's religious beliefs equally, one man - two men! Of course, confidence is respected, but one cannot gain the dignity of a public community by believing in anything. It's not possible. No one will defend him from believing, but he cannot enter the same law where traditional churches are. It's not like that anywhere in the West, it won't be like that here either. It is so in some former communist states that this law is imposed. We have called upon the view that in this area every state is sovereign to regulate its relations. We cannot now assume 0.5% of citizens who would like to be organised as religious groups, to insult 95% of people who belong to traditional churches and religious communities or to fewer of them to Protestant churches that were created in the 19th and 20th centuries, which in some countries are very strong and even state-owned. It's not reasonable, it's not democratic. In the name of the individual's freedom, the tyranny of the minority cannot be allowed. No one can terrorise public organisations and public communities that have contributed to the development of Christian culture in Southeast Europe, which have contributed to the development of a common culture, that public community where the state's consciousness rested at a time when we didn't have states. (Mrs. Nestorovic, I'm sorry, I can see that my thoughts are abject to you, but believe me, I can't understand that. You, too, have assessed, and a colleague, Vojnovic, has assessed, it seems that we are people who do not understand anything. This thing I really don't understand, and you don't understand it enough, because you're not able to find me wrong in thinking. ) When asked why a small religious group must have the same rights as the SPC, or why some religious group that does not register can obtain legal personality status under this law, which is precisely suggested, you answer this question – they said in the Venice Commission. No, because that's not possible. The analysis is done by professors, not lawyers, but by cultural scientists or anthropologists. They can make that kind of legal oversight. Their views have not passed any legal order. None of them said that because if someone told them it was absurd, people would understand. It's not absurd, it's completely contradictory and pointless, because there's no point in what you're calling yourself here. It is better to accept that there is no discrimination if we mention traditional ones, to realize that churches and religious communities have the right to their name and name, to their identity; and that they do not have churches and religious communities with the name in which it is contained and identity to reject their name in order to be equal with someone who believes in something, but is not yet able to appoint their community. I think we should respect the effort made in this law to reach some extent, to guarantee freedom for everyone. Freedom is guaranteed by the Constitution. As much as the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter of Freedom of Faith guarantees, is sufficient for every citizen of Serbia. This is not a law of freedom of religion, as one of the MPs suggests, transferring why not. This is a law on public communities through which 95% of Serbian citizens exhibit and cultivate and practice their religious beliefs. We are now trying to tell by law where the place is, in the widest social horizon, these public communities, what the state offers them and what it guarantees them, and freedom does not cancel anyone. And so one such delicate balance was found, that everyone who tries to make a sophism or logical leaps were wronged. It is easy to rely on sophisms and logical leaps and to appeal to an opinion by a Venice Commission or any other. It is difficult (it is not difficult if desired and well-intentioned approach to this text) to understand this fine measure that has been achieved here, this enormous effort to associate with each other seemingly incompatible principles and to get a healthy and good synthesis, which will not limit anyone's rights, but which will not equalise all churches and religious communities. I also said the day before yesterday that this law rests on the principle of absolute freedom of faith and the regime of the recognized church. The regime of a recognised church is something that belongs to our tradition, which we inherited and that we have the right to restore because other countries in the EU, in fact, apply that principle, that is, the regime of recognised churches. And that means you're all free, but you don't all have the same rights. Those of you who don't register, you can't ask the Ministry of Faith for money to send a student to study in Boston. Why can't you? You're not registered. And if you're registered, why can't you do it again? Because your organization is too small. According to the fair distribution of the funds that taxpayers have put into the budget, such small communities do not have the right to use state grants. I hope so, and I wanted to make this more clear, not to sharpen the conceptal differences, but to make them really clear. I apologize to Mrs. Nestorovic if I have hurt her logic or some sense of justice, which dictates that everyone must be equal. I didn't mean to. I do not deny the right of every man, nor does this law deny the right to freedom, the right to every human right. But the reality is that someone has the power to contribute more to the community, someone has the power to contribute less to the community, and someone has the will not to contribute anything out of error or evil intent but to bother the community at all. We can't even everything up. It's simple, that's right. Religious feeling is a delicate feeling and it has a different motivation. The point of the law is to protect the purity of that feeling and to prevent that feeling from being manipulated for any purpose that is not noble. Unfortunately, that can happen, and that's what's happening. This law tries to ban it, to protect the purity of religious sense. If you don't believe that the religious feeling in itself is human, that it has its purity, that it's the value of apriors, and that this value of apriors can be abused, as other values are being abused, then we can't find a common theme, we can't define the problem. For at the beginning we are going – you of all religious feelings are equal, and I of all religious feelings are noble and the religious communities are divided. Don't give them away from this law. This law finds what exists in Serbia, and in Serbia there is exactly what is stated from Articles 11 to 16. It's a reality. We edit reality, we don't edit some imaginary state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25910	Ljiljana Nestorović, Mr Radovanović, and Mr Krstin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25911	I'm really sorry, when I fully well-intentioned in certain cases when we thought we didn't understand each other, not that you didn't understand, I didn't mean that you weren't capable of understanding, nor did you, Mr. Minister, but that we didn't understand each other, but I'm giving up on that. We understand each other very well, only our views on certain issues are completely different, the approach is completely different. I'm really in a big dilemma about whether it makes any sense at all, actually, I was in a dilemma when I was putting up with these amendments. Personally, I believe that such a law is impossible in the way that I personally, and I believe a large number of Serbian citizens, would be acceptable, to amend these amendments. I just think that the intensity that you had in mind, what your intensity was, is something that I personally find unacceptable. You can tell from your speech. I don't want anything bad to you, it's your right, you're obviously someone who came here with awareness that he should represent the church, primarily the Serbian Orthodox Church, speaking literally from the position of someone who's a church dignitary. You're supposed to represent the state here. The Serbian people live most in Serbia. I suppose it's mostly Orthodox, but 30 percent of non-Serb people live. Not all Serbian believers, not all Muslim believers, and you must, as someone who represents a civil state, and I hope that we are still, and a secular state, which we are until this law is passed, to represent the rights of all citizens of Serbia. In that sense, Minister, when you say, I'm relieved, it's unacceptable for you to speak the way you speak here. That's what I mean most deeply. If I were to look at a generic menu, which I am both Serbian and Orthodox, it could fit your way, but it's not your duty, it's not your job. Your job is to protect that every citizen here, as the Constitution says, has the right to guarantee all the freedoms set out in the Constitution. You're talking about the purity of faith. Do you know where that leads us? It leads us to where I said-- theocratic, changing, radical, concepts of a society where the state is separated from the church. He's taking us to the theocratic office and I'm completely convinced after this speech, which I don't want to analyze, because I really don't want to contribute to that kind of debate at all, but I'm in a deep dilemma whether it's possible to accept this law at all. Everything I said in the principle debate, you're changing the drastic character of society here. This is anti-European law. You prove this by contesting and speaking about the Venice Commission. It is not right for your government colleagues to call for the views of the Venice Commission when the rules are to be laid down to hold a referendum in Montenegro. And when those same attitudes are to be respected, when the law of faith is on the agenda, then you are in an unacceptable way disputing it. Either you're comfortable with what he says without the selectivity of the Venice Commission or it doesn't suit you. You can't ask them for an opinion once, and you can't win another opinion, so you can challenge it in this way. It proves my point that this was done in an anti-European spirit. You should have simply made a public debate, which perhaps in a better way than I do here, I don't want to label myself as someone who knows this matter, I'm really trying to make my deepest civic belief, what I'm essentially trying to explain to you here, and to really draw attention to you that the way you're discussing is not the way of one minister, one member of the government, but it's the way someone who advocates a certain religion, religion. It's your right to believe, to be this much or so engaged, but don't impose an opinion, don't violate the Constitution, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25912	The amendment was followed by First MP Radovanovic, so MP Krstin, Ćirkovic, Krasic, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25913	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minister is coming out, and I was just about to tell him he's having a hard time in this room. On the one hand, some MPs are criticising him and attacking him because the bill is too liberal, and on the other hand, the MPs of the SRS, we are criticising him because, on the one hand, he did well to provide for the existence of traditional churches and religious communities, and criticism goes to the expense of, above all, Article 17, where he gave too much freedom and too much liberal provisions on the possibility of registration of some other religious communities. In any case, this bill can only be good if the amendments to the SRS are adopted, otherwise it could not be good quality. As regards, in particular, Article 4. The proposal for a law on churches and religious communities and amendments of colleagues to Article 4, we in the SRS believe that both Articles 4 and 4 of this amendment have terms, terms which should not stand there, and they give the essence of the concept of the provision of Article 4 of this proposal and the provisions of the amendments to Article 4. What's this about? It is also said in Article 4, as well as in the amendment of fellow Members of the People's Parliament - within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, which is fine by the confessional communities; Mr Minister, aren't all the churches that you predict further in Articles 11 to 17. The proposal for a law of confesionality belongs to all churches provided for in Articles 11, 12, 13 to Article 17 belong to a particular religion and confesion as a religious group. If we talk about religion being Christianity, churches belonging to confession, or religious groups, Orthodox confession, Roman Catholic confession, Protestant confiscation, then certain religions, Islam, Taoism, then the Jewish religious community, it's also not a confiscation, but it's a religion. So if we're talking about churches and religious communities, they're all confessional. You could say churches and religious communities and other confessional communities. Then it would make sense and a connection to this notion that we want to stress on traditional churches and religious communities. The colleague's amendment goes into one very large width. A fellow member of the People's Parliament cited, besides churches, religious communities, confessional communities and other religious communities and other religious groups. If, Mrs. Nestorovic, you predicted religious groups only in this amendment to Article 4, you should have worked through the whole law the existence of religious groups, including registration. To make your point, your logic remarks on the bill of churches and religious communities meant to be coherent and consistent, connected and principled. Of course, they enjoy all these churches and religious communities, religious groups, confessional communities, as you say, collective religious freedoms. They can only be carriers, subjects of religious freedom. The pleasures are individuals. When I go to church, I enjoy religious freedom. There is, of course, a right to gather more people, and in churches and religious rituals, to express their religious feelings. Besides, Article 41. Serbia's constitution is clear. The freedom of religion, which implies freedom of faith, confession of faith, freedom to perform religious rituals, is guaranteed. He's very clear. Furthermore, we Orthodoxs, we Serbs, in the Serbian Radical Party, pay attention and special attention to the citizens of Serbia, but in return we also ask other people to respect both us Orthodox and the Serbian Orthodox Church. And no, as I mentioned earlier today, a flagrant violation of the freedom of religion for Serbs, members of the Serbian Orthodox Church, is being done in Croatia, with the participation of the state. It was written in "The Evening List", he said that 30,000 Serbs were translated from Orthodox to Roman Catholic religion. Of which 20,000 children from 1991 to 2003. This was also written by Metropolitan Jovan Zagrebačko-Ljubljanski Sinodu SPC about this phenomenon. It has to react, the state has to react. Once again, I would like to mention Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, who keeps talking about Kosovo being independent and not doing its job, and to invest a protest note on the fact that it cannot violate freedom of religion for Serbs in Croatia, Serbs belonging to the SPC.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25914	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Borko Ilic, appeared, and then Arsen the Korjak (Arsen).
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the presentation of Ms Ljiljana Nestorovic, a member of 104 has been violated, saying that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and we are as MPs elected by the citizens of this country to respect their dignity as well. Mrs. Nestorovic, there are no Muslims who are not believers. You said that, the communist state invented a Muslim nation. It's like saying there are no Orthodox people who are not believers. Therefore, I would ask that for the sake of our neighbours who are Muslims, you can possibly say that there are Bosniaks who are not believers, but there are no Muslims who are not believers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25916	Arsen Kurjacki.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25917	I also advertise an injury to this member who, as my esteemed colleague said, requires that we honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Indeed, this is already an exaggeration, as to how hypocritically this National Assembly is trying to humiliate itself. I feel really hurt by the permanent statements from the Social Democratic Party. So what does it look like to keep saying that this law threatens amazing people, so what is the threat of this law? Is it someone who advocates that this law should not be passed, that more than 60 years of void and communist arrangement of this matter should remain as such? What does that mean with this law are being threatened by unbeliefing people? Does this mean that this may not mean anything in Article 3 where it is said: "Freedom of religion or religious belief can only be subject to those restrictions prescribed by the Constitution, the law and ratified international documents, which are necessary in a democratic society to protect public security, public order, morals and the protection of freedoms and the rights of others. "So, if there is any interference on this matter, it will immediately be limited. But we can't say in advance now that something will happen if we pass this law and regulate these relations between the church and the people who believe. What does it mean to keep mentioning that this minister is acting like a bishop, speaking as a church dignitary? Well, thank God we have a minister who understands his work, that we don't have communist ministers who only propagate their ideology, but are working on the welfare of 95% of the people who believe in this country. Thank God we got such a minister, who knows what's good for this country and this people. Do not convince us any more of what it is not, for it is already humiliating for this congregation and for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25918	Ljiljana Nestorović, replica. What about Mr. Krasic? You're after Krstin and cirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25919	Well, unfortunately, I have to replicate. Really, I mean, I already have enough amendments to come out and explain them, but it's like you want to do it on purpose. You're not listening to what your minister is saying, since he's from your party, I assume. He says that there are cleaner, less pure religions, and since I didn't mention in that context those who don't believe, you've mentioned. I didn't mention the right of those who don't believe at all, but since the minister made a comparison between religions, that's what I did. Now that you mention it, it means those who don't believe are dirty. There you can get about, that's what your colleague said that it's just degutant how I can see that it's not right when you say about this congregation pay phone that certain faiths are purer than some other faiths. Well, I'll always notice that, sir, as much as it bothers you, I'm bound by the fact that I'm a member of the Parliament, and that includes certain obligations. As Mr. Minister, once again, has the right to his beliefs, but it is not his job to speak as a minister about these beliefs, nor to explain them to anyone. It is his job to make sure that proper legal regulations are put in place in the area we are talking about and that instruments are being implemented that the state will best respect and carry out that legal procedure and any other procedure. I also said in the principle debate, the meaning of this law exists, of course, that it should be passed, but only in a way to define the registration of churches and religious communities and to define relations between these religious communities. Everything else is absolutely superfluous. If we say that the church is separate from the state, which is now a situation, the state defines its rules, which must apply to every citizen, regardless of religious, national or any other commitment, regardless of education. So the minister here gives himself the right to introduce a certain kind of elitism, speaking of course of faith. Now I'm asking you, since he's been talking about some things too, I may have the right to act like one, so let me ask what if, for example, one minister has an IQ over 180 and comes here and says, it gives me the right to have an elitist approach to those who have a smaller IQ. And what are we all going to do then? Well, it's the same kind of analogy, you can't talk like that in the congregation. Please, I've submitted amendments to a certain, I have a certain attitude. I'm trying to be perfectly rational. There are a lot of amendments. In the light of these amendments, I don't speak for a minute, you five come out here and literally challenge my right to think differently. Don't do that. Let's rationalize. Your colleague, I admit, I was wrong, but that's some relapse, obviously the society we lived in, and where Muslims were defined as a people. They're Bosniaks now. We understood what I meant to say, in that legal-formal sense, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25920	Replica, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group, mentioned parties, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25921	No one said there were clean, less clean and uncleaner, no one said. The law defines precisely what a church is, what a religious community is, what a confessional community is, and how something cannot be defined as a religious or confessional community. This concerns Article 2(3)’s position that religious freedom must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, the right to health, children’s rights, should not be encouraged by religious, national, or racial intolerance. The law recognises that there are seven traditional churches in this country, because their legal position in the Principality of Serbia, then the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of SHS, and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia are regulated legally from 1804 to 1932. Also, the confesional communities are those whose status is regulated by legal, or sublegal acts in the period from 1950 to 1960. This does not mean that religious communities should be certain organisations that have been treated this way since 1990, which de facto represent sects. We have had sects, which the state has promoted through its own media since 1992, say, that are devastatingly functioning, say transcendental meditation. In some countries, it is forbidden because it has a bad influence in the mental and physical sense of each individual. If this law does not allow such groups to register as religious communities, as confessional communities, they will not be and will then be dealt with by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior and other competent authorities. It's not about being clean and less pure, baptizing, and not baptizing, it's about the fact that the law accurately prescribes what can be a religious community, what can be a confessional community, and what can never be. Serbia is not the only country that treats these organisations in this way. This is what all EU Member States do, so if we want to compare ourselves to Europe, we should also compare ourselves with these legal norms.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25922	According to the amendment, the People's MP Marko Krstin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25923	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for this amendment, I will start with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as I see that there has been a dilemma about whether we are equal, whether this is one or another state. Article 1 says that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens living in it, no less, based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the rule of law and social justice. Article 3 - in the Republic of Serbia is free of all that is not prohibited by the Constitution and by law. So that's the basis for all the laws, and so is this law. I understand the argument of the amendment promoter, I think I also understood Mr. Minister's argument. Legally speaking, the state, whether it is Serbia or another state, respects the existence of the subjectivity of a religious community, called one or more, if it has been legitimated before the state authorities, has applied for registration and has met the conditions to be entered. Why is that necessary? Not because one is limited to the right of religion, freedom of religion, but because of the fact that out of the light of documentation, we are talking about statutes, decisions on establishment, whether or not the functioning of that organisation offends certain fundamental rights and freedoms that must, of course, be limited in the interest of the protection of other rights and freedoms. No right and freedom can be restricted to anything else, and that is constitutional matter, to equal rights and freedoms of other people. Thus, justified law insists on the legal subjectivity of an organization that has faith in God for the basis of the gathering. The amendment proposes that subjectivity be given to one who has no legal subjectivity. This means that we would practically have two types of organizations around which people gather on a matter of faith and belief: one that would have subjectivity and one that would not have subjectivity. Those who would not have subjectivity would, according to this, not have obligations under the law such as those which have subjectivity and could not enjoy the rights that those who have legal subjectivity have. So this amendment actually promotes the legal inequality of the organizations in which people join to celebrate and believe in the Lord God, whatever their name is. So, from one equality, we practically change into inequality. There is a legal subjectivity of an organization that must be respected because it is a principle based on all the laws on religious communities throughout the world. Who listened to "It Happened Today", in a country of America on today, security agents dealt with a religious organization, which was not registered and dealt with various things that did not concern belief in God but were concerned with endangering life, health, and everything else in humans. So this law requires that there be legal subjectivity by enrolment, so that a religious organization can enjoy rights and make commitments. As far as small organisations are concerned, this provides for a right of subjectivity and a religious group that has no legal subjectivity. It is very interesting that the amendment promoter thinks it defines this religious group that has no legal subjectivity. Are these two men, three men, five people, on what principle they're organized, what they're doing, what they can't do, and what they could be equal to the rest of them? I'm going to mention one church, and I'm entitled to it because I'm a Serb, they have the right to mention their own. The Serbian Orthodox Church has existed since 1219, who didn't know that, and that's eight centuries. The Serbian Orthodox Church has a constitution of the SPC and a series of other regulations governing the conduct of believers, ministerial priests, and Patriarch. It's an orderly organization that's been in existence for eight centuries. That's what St. Sava fought for. He chose from Patriarch of Constantinople and the Emperor of Byzantine for the independence of the Serbian Orthodox Church and she enjoys it today. She's fully organized, she has all the regulations she needs, and I don't see any reason why anyone else, who intends to be listed as a real subject in this register, doesn't do the same. It is eight hundred years something, is the role of the SPC in the Serbian people, is that Saint Sava's first hospital was founded, that the father of literacy, the father of schools, the father of law, he made Nomokhanon. So it's about a church that has all the institutes. Everyone else can do it on the same terms, it doesn't make any difference. But the existence of religious groups, which have no subjectivity, have not registered, have not submitted evidence that they meet the conditions, that we can allow such a thing to work. Anyone can think what they want, it's not a dispute, but it can't be arranged to do things that aren't allowed, and that's the essence of this. If they accepted the amendment, they would have two groups of religious organizations, those who have legal subjectivity, who have rights and obligations, and those who do not and can do whatever they want. It's an inequality of citizens, it's not an equality that should be governed by this law. This amendment is, in fact, related to the other amendments that annul the tradition, in which the legal subjectivity of all religious communities and churches is annulled, because these amendments are practically abolished by members where they are confirmed to have subjectivity. So, this arrangement, as proposed by this amendment, is indeed apart from the equality of citizens, except by the law of the declared equality of citizens in front of every law and regulation. I suggest that this amendment not be accepted. It leads to a violation of the system of the law itself and brings to an unequal position those citizens who are members of that church and the organisation that registered and those who did not. I want to remind you about what happened. small religious communities, this law has made sure not only that they are being helped proportionally by the state or how the Constitution allows, but said, if there are few believers, the principle of positive discrimination can be applied. This is Article 31. It just shows that this law does not refer to religious communities as small and large, such as or in a similar way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25924	The word has an MP, Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25925	So really the discussion was extensive on this subject. I would ask Mr. Minister to be less engrossed, for the simple reason he doesn't need to try, 95% of the people are already convinced, and those 5% are hopeless. Ms. Nestorovic's efforts are also unnecessary. These 95% obviously can't be defiled, and that 5% is quite enough for her, 5% is a great thing. The second thing, perhaps a small problem has arisen that in Article 4, if I had written the amendment, I would say that subjects are not corporate religious freedoms, but subjects of institutional religious freedoms. This is simply about representation. There is equality of freedom of belief and it is not disputed, but the moment we enter a church, and in the Serbian Orthodox Church we sign up for an act of baptism, at that moment we have authorized the church to represent us, we consume our religious rights in any way. But it's the institution that has to have a legal entity. He can't have a legal entity unless he's regulated legal status. The second thing is that the Orthodox are registered as Roman Catholics in Croatia for a reason. So, let me say it one more time. By the decisions of the Second Vatican Council, in the 1960s, the act of baptism in Orthodox churches is treated as equal to the act of baptism in the Roman Catholic Church. Thus, those who were members of the Christian Orthodox Church, who were later enrolled in the Roman Catholic Church, did not need baptism. That doesn't justify the proselytism of Roman Catholics. What they do is baptize those who are not baptized, and those who are not baptized are not members of the SPC, and they are for us lost souls. We didn't register them in time. Therefore, it is not a problem in the Roman Catholic Church, and unfortunately there is a problem with us. There's no need to shed those tears for the simple reason we dropped them. That's what this is about. Since this law can cause reactions and replicas, etc., and yet it must be passed, and it would be good to bring it back at the time of this great terrible week, to bring it before the Orthodox Easter, I would like to be a little more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25926	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Hranislav Peric appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25927	Mr. Chairman, you had to warn Mr. Prophetic because he didn't stick to the agenda, but everything comes back and talks about some past tense.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25928	Mr. Peric, please state a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25929	Read the Rules of Procedure, I don't have a Rules of Procedure. Mr. Prorokovic says, if you do not want to pass the law, let it remain in the 90s, 92s, he mentioned some. Mr. Prophetovich, it hasn't been the church since you came to power. The most churches are made in our time, you know that well. You well know that the church is now in a worse position than when we were in power. You use the church when you need it, the race at Patriarch Paul's when he says something that doesn't suit us, don't mix the church in the state. The SPS, you heard the statement by the president of the parliamentary group, that we will vote for this law, but it is not good to talk, and Mr. Prophetovic's exposure, that during 1990-1992 was a bad situation. The church in Serbia was the most built at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25930	Mr. Perić, since you have called for Mr. Prorokovic to have no right, under Article 101 of the parliamentary group, a deputy or authorised representative of the parliamentary group to be able to react, then responds to a replica. I would ask you to appeal next time to a specific member of the Rules of Procedure, because it is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Prophetic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25931	I didn't say that the church was created in 90-92, I was talking about other things, both the state media and their reporting on certain religious sects in the period from 92 onwards. If you're already pulling my tongue, here I am not alluding to you, alluding to my friend Mirjana Markovic. She went to India with one haircut, came back from India with another haircut, a flower in her hair and a big interview in "Politicals", where she talked about Sai Babi as a healer, a savior, transcendental meditation as a religion, as a religion that can heal the soul and body, etc. So that's what I was talking about, nothing more. Far from thinking that the church was created in 90 or 2000, If we're going to talk about legal norms, if we're going to talk about legal legislation, we have to admit that church legal norms in Serbia are much older than world norms, or civilians.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25932	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. By amendment, you have eight and a half minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25933	An amendment to Article 4 submitted by Meso and Ljilja; I will not touch the same amendment submitted to Article 4 but of a completely different quality, which will be seen when Natasa Jovanovic comes out. Mr. Minister, we are in the field of achieving freedom of religion. When we meet on that ground, then there's no more room for the term subject, object, predicate, object, roof, foundation, etc. There isn't. That termology can't work at all. Further, corporate religious freedom; what does corporate freedom mean to you? What's left? A subject of religious freedom. Then it's still good. Please, you from democratic corporate Serbia, wait a minute. There's a democratic corporate, since the party's about to come to him as a corporation. If you left it out, then that's good. How could you define what a subject of religious freedom is? Since I've heard them say here that you're a knower of faith, etc., you know how many centuries there's been a dispute over what church is, who's church, who's who in church. There's a big dispute. However, you have begun to challenge this amendment, the first league, the second league, the zone, etc. Not when it comes to religious freedom to make that difference. It can't be compared and can't be made like that. You've entered an area quite unnecessary, you're supposed to have this occasion in order to define the legal subjectivity of something. This thing has its own legal subjectivity. I'm drawing your attention to one more thing. You said, we are a sovereign state, we believe that this question should be resolved in a sovereign way, meaning by our own will, by the will of the people in parliament, as an expression of the will of the people. However, you also have the Papal Nuncia in almost every country, so there is it in Belgrade. He has been a representative of a quasi state of the Vatican, the Lateran Agreement since 1929 has become a state, 1,500 have special citizens, etc. Please take care of yourself. As much as you are under the influence of that organization. Next, you will notice in the following amendments, because I assume someone will answer, there is a kind of confusion. You will be led here on the basis of your law, as you have led him here, by someone to lead under something of what you have listed here in this article, and order, and mission, and some other form. Opus Dei already reigns in Serbia, you know. Through whom, you know who. How? What do they do, what direction do they work? You have a perfectly legal order formed by Jovan Pavle II, who intervened between Rugova and Milosevic in the conclusion of an education agreement. What's his legal position? In the principle debate, you forgot to mention 1,450 Opus Dei institutes, two satellites, 60% of the world's media space. Don't you recognize some things that come from black, yellow, influence? Just to remind you, in 1937, the government fell, the assembly disbanded, because the SPC threw an anthem at the MPs, who voted for a Concordate with the Vatican. Varnava is poisoned. Anton Korošec organized a gendarme to beat the priests here. This concordate guaranteed the Roman Catholic Church much more rights than the SPC. In a sign of disappointment, Stepinac said he would pay Serbs for the Concordate. And they paid from 1941 to 1945. Why am I saying all this? You've tried for good purposes to rank what the church is, what the religious community is, and what it's something else or third. The other day, you made a very commendable statement about a church, which says it was disappointed, confused by this discussion in the National Assembly, what was heard at the expense of that church. Well, we are also confused by their actions, and Alexei the other is confused by the work of the Roman Catholic Church in Siberia, by the work of the Roman Catholic Church in Ukraine, the union and other things. We send these remarks to you on this concept of the bill, because we believe that you have entered an area completely unnecessary and given cause for some to write amendments, again calling on the Venice Commission and who knows what more, and who rightly calls for that, because you have also called on the Venice Commission's views on another issue, the EU's views on another issue? You gave people a reason to write these amendments. You say, we're going to Europe and all of our throats into strawberries accept what comes from that Europe. And I know what they're going to ask you from Europe, because I'm a little aware of those decisions and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. You recognize the European Court of Human Rights. If anyone makes a statement to the European Court of Human Rights, don't be angry. I am not defending the subject of the amendment, I am just preparing you to understand why it is necessary to accept the amendment by Natasha Jovanovic. I'm just preparing you to accept that amendment and to remind you, you've entered this area in the wrong way. I am absolutely certain that we in the National Assembly here have no right to discuss the SPC in this law, in no provision of this law we should discuss the SPC. She's above the state. The most effective factor for Serbia is the SPC and our statehood comes from it. Which would devalue me with religious sects, release these terms, that doesn't mean anything, why you insult the SPC. Those who speak, believers, unbelievers, in the one-sided system of the West, thought they were believers, they just believe there is no God, but they are treated the same as believers. Furthermore, why did I say at the outset that by any chance you had worked out a way of achieving freedom of religion and the legal restrictions that are possible to prevent the abuse of freedom of religion, I would very much accept working on this law and working on it until the end. But you completely unnecessarily entered a different area and opened a brightness of theme. Be assured, whoever comes out for this pay phone to criticize you, he's right, unfortunately, because you gave cause. You gave cause, because at the beginning you said there was a first league, a second league and a zone, and of course Meho would wave at you the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and I'm not surprised. Another thing, make sure you don't make it possible to create some kind of fundamentalism in this way. Let's get this straight, there's no such thing in SPC and Orthodox people, and there's never been one. But not to cause fundamentalism among others, and it exists in Novi Pazar, old believers in Novi Pazar voice doubts about whether the Mufti have completed schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25934	Donka Banovic picked up the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25935	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I will not now look back on this amendment and why this amendment or any other member of the law should not be accepted, because the debaters have already said enough about the amendment. So the solution proposed by the law doesn't like one because it's too liberal for others because it's not liberal enough, it means that we found a golden environment and that the bill and how it solved the very registration of religious communities in the right way. So, the golden environment is here, and I suggest we don't adopt the amendment. Secondly, as for the observation that the government of the Republic of Serbia is elite, the truth is, most of the ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica do not have an IQ 180, but most ministers have an IQ of 130, 140 and probably more since the scale does not normally record it. So it's not elitist, it's the government of this people, it's well run by the state of Serbia, every day we see that it's not only for the elite, but it's also for ordinary people, or that it's valid to lead the Republic of Serbia forward in very difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25936	Milos Aligrudic reported after the amendment. According to the amendment to the 4th National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meha Omerovic, you have a total of 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25937	When it comes to this amendment, I just want to light up another circumstance that she didn't pay enough attention to. It is a question of the position of amendments in relation to the text of the law and its place in the text of the law itself. Not at this point in content, which was spoken of by fellow MPs before me. Therefore, Article 4 speaks of corporate religious freedom entities and decidently cites them. It's out. We have a Article 4 that looks what it looks like. Now, we have the text of the amendment that speaks of the protection of legal subjectivity and equality against religious subjectivity, and here is Article 4. The bill doesn't talk about it at all. So that's not the place, that's the point of the story. Therefore, for this reason alone, the reasons for the legal-technical form of text, this is not the place and that is the essence of the story, not entering the content at all. Therefore, I think it is a completely missed topic compared to Article 4. You see, you have a second amendment, which was given by another parliamentary group, where it's talked about article 4, and there are different treatment ways of enuming communities. So one way is done in the bill, and another way is proposed, which can certainly cause controversy about what is a better method and whether it is consistent with how this other amendment is proposed. This is about this amendment being completely out of place, so it just doesn't exist in this place. So I can't, in a legal-technical sense, find him here. He's not impossible legally, he's legally possible, but in this place he can't be treated, it's completely illogical. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25938	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Jovanovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my intention was to make this amendment, which the SRS believes is key in this law and which should follow the whole concept of Serbian radicals on the bill, make the law acceptable for both us and the citizens of Serbia. I wanted to talk to the minister about a few things, try to get its clear explanations on new terms, about something that is heard for the first time in Serbia in this area and about termological approaches that really give us one opportunity to operate religious sects in our country. For the sake of the public, I assume all fellow MPs know that this is the key amendment of the SRS, but I will read that we have responded to Article 4. This member says: "The subjects of corporate religious freedom (which is an approach and a term that does not exist anywhere in the world, and you say it has been expelled; I can't speak hypothetically, I'm talking about the bill's proposal, and what's going to happen according to the amendments in the voting day, now I call you to vote for my amendment, it's possible to gather and the parliamentary majority, I'm starting from that, my intention is to convince you whether or not you want it to be your thing, the government has given its answer to that question, and how the MPs will decide, we will see; therefore, all that there are no such words) in the sense of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organisations (hereinafter: churches and religious communities)." On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to amend and specify Article 4. The member should read: "The subjects of religious freedoms within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities (hereinafter referred to as churches and religious communities), namely: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Islamic religious community, the Jewish religious community, the Slovak Church, the Reformian Christian Church and the Evangelical Christian Church". We Serbian radicals believe that traditional churches and religious communities can only be considered those who have traditional, centuries-old and historical continuity and legal subjectivity. The word "confession" introduced to termologically in this law, which is treated by Article 17 that we asked to erase, is nothing but an open door for sects. And all the pseudo-Christian religious communities, as the minister said, are nothing but sects, and they can act in our country. No traditional religious community, nor the confiscation recognises the confessional communities referred to in Article 17. A bill of this law. We cannot accept that, for reasons listed in the principle interpretation of the law and through numerous objections that we have been pointing out for years ago. When it comes to Pentecost and so on. I told you about Najbor, and I mentioned, I reminded the public and MPs of an affair with former Deputy Prime Minister Perisic, and the fact that Najbor, as a CIA agent and as head of the CIA, was sent to this area to expand the Pentecostal religious sect in these areas. Unfortunately, in Kragujevac, where I live, and in many other cities, and sects and so on. religious communities, which have a destructive impact on our society in general and on traditional religious communities, are firstly trampled by what we Serbs and Orthodox people are, because they are mainly going to recruit SPC believers, especially children who are members of our SPC, and we cannot accept that in this way giving the possibility that, as the minister says, "the supporters of other religious organisations" act. First of all, there are no supporters. Tell Mr. Minister, there are believers and those who are not. Supporters can be supporters of a football club or some political party, to the greatest extent living supporters of the SRS, but supporters of some religious group do not. On the other hand, I need to remind you again of what the conclusions of the declaration was made at EU level in 1996 and 2003. At the plenary session, in no letter -- nor the minister in his presentation, none of the MPs of the ruling structure, nor exists in the law -- are marked or defined by religious sects. And I will read to you the conclusions of the EU-level declaration of 1996 and 2003. In a plenary debate dedicated to the destructive functioning of religious sects, many of which are banned in EU countries, Austria, Germany, France, etc., were talking about the fact that in certain countries a decisive fight should be taken to counter the dangerous movements of sectual character that threaten the psychological or physical integrity of a person and are calling for members of the criminal law of civil law to be applied, which is not regulated here. Because if you're talking about pathological and destructive phenomena, if you're talking about what the MUP has as a record of the destructive functioning of those you call "New Protestant churches", you're coming up with the fact that you haven't even been able to sanction these sects by law, you're even giving them the opportunity to keep them uninterrupted registered. I can't accept the minister saying they're smart people who go to school on their so-called. colleges, and they're members of New Protestant churches, because there's no such thing. Those first Protestants, thousands of years ago, rebelled against the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church, but those you call, and the minister, the "New Protestant Church", those as such do not exist anywhere and are not recognized. They're sects. They've been back 150 to 200 years. That someone in the wrong, tendious and destructive way of interpreting Christianity, hitting the SPC, the national consciousness of the Serbian people, the Serbian children, and doing so in this country, and under the word "confession", that means nothing to us. You know, if someone in that way has a picture, one character and a fan is not sure what (Mr. Aligrudić, be a little more patient, you say I'm right; of course I'm right), that kind of action we can't accept. That is why we advocate that Article 4 be defined only by traditional religious communities. We have mentioned many times that members of these pseudo-Christian churches, as someone calls them, in fact sects, and former Minister Vesenov, then Gašo Knezevic, and I am not talking about former SRJ Prime Minister, member and member of the Mun sect, Milan Panic and so on. Because that story will lead us to that point that I will then give you exact information about the destruction and attack on the church facilities of traditional religious communities, not just on believers, members of traditional religious communities, who even recorded those from the Council of Europe, bringing declarations in 96 and 2003, really exact and devastating data. The activities of religious sects, and all those organisations that do not belong to traditional religious communities, for normal people are nothing but sects, various psycho-organizations, commercial cults, similar organisations that uninterruptedly buy dates on all local TVs in Serbia, even among those who claim to receive national frequencies, you have also noticed, which directly want to affect the awareness of young people, and above all the population that is believed in Serbia and belonging to the SPC, is something that will be made possible for them when they register under this law. You say in Article 3(2) that they can be discouraged by the competent ministry, or that they don't act like that or not to be admitted, that they're not registered, and then you're making a classification and you say, these are confesions, which are actually sects under Article 17, and these are sects, so we're not registering them under Article 3 of the Law. The DOJ won't give them permission, and in fact it's all a great opportunity to make, in terms of witch hunting, an incorrect classification of what it is and what it isn't. I want to convince you, as a member of the SRS and as a believing woman, a member of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that you must only consider in the form of recognition of traditional church communities when you are engaged in such a sensitive area, as Mr Nikolic spoke of in principle. I think it is necessary that this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 17 above all, be made to Article 8 when it comes to the stay of those who are to perform religious rituals in Serbia and whose citizens they are and how they regulate. I don't want to remind you of just one of those examples, nobody mentioned, and here I am, members of that Mormon cult. This so-called so-called. The preacher, and there's a danger to you everywhere from what I'm talking about. They say to themselves that some pseudochrist religious organization is nothing but a sect, and they are recognized by Americans as a confiscation, and you recognize these other sects here as confesions. He came from New Jersey and even says to himself it's from a line of Germans, imagine. His mother is a member of the German line. With such fiction, it strikes the consciousness, primarily the believing young people, wanting to distract them from their church and their traditional religious community. I must remind you of the fact, and I will do so, first of all, because the MPs of the SRS for the first time there swore an oath at the temple of Alexander Nevsky at Dorcolo, that there is a center for the spiritual control of the functioning of religious sects in our country. It's really like drug abuse, alcoholism and all the other monsters that exist in our society and everywhere in the world. Something that every sincere Serbian patriot and all citizens, members of other peoples, or religious communities, of traditional ones, should fight to preserve the national tissue of our society, which is being destroyed through such an operation. The fact that they called, some of them, the minister said, was also spoken of by counterpart Krasic, and said who they can say are not members of the church. That's exactly what I'm talking about, that these sectarians, through legitimacy and through the ability to spread and to act more and more, and show this clearly statistics compared to the year 91, so on the last list in 2002, you'll see that they've even smiled so much as members of those sects to make themselves public and declare themselves. They don't cross from anything, they come to people's doors, even the SPC priests meet in the coat after the service on the street. And that's what I'm talking about, and the fact that only through the clear definition of what's been a confessional traditional religious community for centuries is recognised, which is the amendment to Article 4, which I've submitted, we can go into further discussion in one proper and only normal way. One more thing. When laws on primary and secondary education were adopted and religious education was introduced to our schools 60 years later, we also warned that I also did so from this pay phone, then representatives of the Dossov authorities, not to play with concepts such as small religious communities. There's a member of this Nazarene sect from this Vesenov party, and that's what I'm talking about, and you're saying that they're confession, they're not, but they're sects, he's amendedly wanted to act in 2002 and he was talking about so-called. small religious communities. We were then able to intervene through the amendment of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic that through a clear definition of what traditional religious communities are, which I am just proposing to change Article 4, we save our youth and our children that through the return of religion to schools, sectarians cannot hold religion and call themselves members of a church. Think about this and most of all, in this direction, will be spoken further by the MPs of the SRS, because all the other amendments that we have submitted to the bill concern Article 4 and the latter are what I was talking about by submitting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25940	Since several speakers spoke of the need to delete the word "corporate", it was hours ago, but I would remind you only that the Committee on European Integration has submitted an amendment which deletes the word "corporate" from the title and deletes the word "corporate". Since the proposing representative has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, it is an integral part of the text. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25941	Mr. Obradovic, at least it's unusual for you to react from the context of my 17-minute exposure to something I said at the beginning, and now the amendment... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, I didn't mean you at all, but several speakers spoke about it before, so I didn't look back at your presentation at all, but it was an explanation to Mr. Aligrudic. I was thinking of myself. You were thinking about someone else, and I was thinking about what I was talking about. (President: I responded to Milos Aligrudic's exposure. Don’t say that, all MPs have these amendments ahead of them. I knew that, too, but I spoke from the SRS aspect and the way I wanted to say it. You're not here to correct me and direct me to whether there's an amendment or if the promoter has given up on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25942	I did not correct at all, Milos Aligrudic did not pay attention to the amendment that has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25943	Don't get Aligrudic involved in this now, he'll say about my amendment if he wants something later, but I'm telling you in the future that it's not right and it's not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25944	Thank you for your warning. I'll take care of it in the future. The People's MP Dragoljub Vojnovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, because Article 11(1) says the same thing that's been said here, with the second thesis here. I wanted to say something, Mr Krasic is not here, he spoke here in his speech on one amendment about Opus dei's operation. In a way, blaming the DSS that the minister allowed it to operate, talking about how much the budgets are and how it works. I would remind him that the creator of Opus dei is Nikita Remisian. When, speaking in principle about this law, I said that Serbia's heritage of two cultures, Byzantine, which means spirit, gentlemen's and subtlety, Nikita Remisian worked somewhere where I was born, ten kilometers away. In Remisia, which was the capital of the eastern Mesija, he is one of the greatest theorists of that era and is equally heritage and Orthodox and Catholic. However, what happened, which is that we studied little of him and I think his teaching tends more to Orthodox faith. The second thing, the heritage of this scientist, the church's theorist, Nikita Remisian, is that we Serbs also inherit the entire culture, so I can tell you, that Krasic, he needs to know, because my countryman, a large number of cannons around Nis, geographical cannons, has no Slovenian name but still has Roman toponyms. Therefore, the second is the work of religious sects, the second is the work of organized churches, and the third is what is the essence of Christianity and what is the heritage of both the Serbian people and other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25946	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have priority, MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25947	I mean, dear colleague, it would be best to wait for Mr. Krasic to be here, and Mr. Krasic is an excellent acquaintance of this matter, so if you're already replicating then be correct, wait for him to come to the O.R. if he's already out, and then replicate. Otherwise, you waited, as soon as he closed the door, you replicated. It's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25948	We will finish the morning part of the debate, the one hour break, and then Milos Aligrudic and Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day, we will continue our afternoon search work in the details of the 1st item of the agenda of this session, the draft law on churches and religious communities. Before we continue the search of the draft law in particular, I would like to inform you that, by written amendment, the MPs of the People's Parliament Alexander Lazarevic have withdrawn to members 29th and 34th and to the title above members 44th and members 44th and Rajko Baralic to Article 44th. I'll also inform you that I've made a decision, based on article 85. Rules of Procedure item 4, that today we will work after 18.00 hours, due to the importance of the law and the number of amendments, until the search ends in the particulars of that agenda item, which at 18.00 hours is on the agenda. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic about the amendment to Article 4 and then by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25950	When it comes to the amendment to Article 4, I must say that, listening to the reasons for the amendments given by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, I simply cannot agree with the vast majority of those things that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic expressed in her presentation, especially when it comes to concerns about the functioning of certain groups or individual sects. These are certain groups that represent a particular interest or think that they represent a certain confessional ideology, which can in any way endanger the foundations of society. These foundations of society, as I once said earlier about the second amendment, have been defended by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and have been defended by other laws, including by a set of criminal regulations, and these fundamental values in society are thus protected. As far as this kind of concern is concerned, in that sense I have no controversy and I find it entirely justified. And in that sense, I have experienced and realized the motive for submitting amendments to Article 4 which essentially works in such a way as to change the existing Article 4. The bill, from which this word "corporative" fell out on the basis of an amendment that became an integral part of the textusacon, but it changes it in that it resorts to the listing of traditional churches and religious communities, and that the listing of the point that goes at the end is exhausted, and from that it claims that beyond these communities, which are mentioned here, the practical law cannot know anything else. This is the meaning of the amendment, and I understand very well, and in terms of motive, I welcomed what was said when it came to motivation for this proposal. What it makes me say, however, is that I am not in favour of accepting this amendment is something else, and from that point on, I am turning to another kind of argument. So, this kind of emulation, which is being exhausted in this way, implies that the law has set a total number, which cannot be extended further, and thus, regardless of how some would be called to the Council of Europe's position or in 96 years, practically closes the possibility of applying those provisions and international documents that Serbia-Montenegro is a signator, and based on which we would not then be able to realise potential rights from this sphere, from this area. I will remind you that Article 4 does not stand for itself, but Article 4 stands for Article 11 of this same bill, which sets out exactly the list of traditional churches and religious communities, in paragraphs 1 and 2, and of course there is a derogation from that because it is possible to imagine what is not listed. However, Article 22 regulates how and how religious communities and churches register. The minister's talked about it before. The difference between an unregistered religious community and a registered religious community or a church is that an unregistered religious community or a church cannot inherit those rights that are recognised when it comes to the state's relationship with the religious community and the church compared to those rights that are protected in the manner provided for by this law. The decision-making authority within the meaning of Article 22, and that is why I have talked about it earlier, so I have answered the question when it comes to Articles 3 and 2 of this Law, must bear in mind those circumstances and those protective facilities, those rights listed in Article 3: life, health, personal and family integrity, banning the spread of racial and religious hatred, intolerance, etc. So these are things that the organ must have in mind. This law for the application of the State Authority, read the Ministry, is mandatory, interpretations given in the members of this law which determine the frameworks of the operation of religious organisations are for the body which decides to do so. What do we get from the solution proposed in the amendment? We get the closure of one number and we deprive the need of a state authority to think about whether another organisation, which is not counted here as traditional, meets or does not meet the conditions, but rather determines in advance that it can no longer be. What's going to happen in reality? Those organisations or communities that respect the postulates of civil society, respect the Constitution and respect the laws of this country, although their teachings may not be in line with the dogmatic teachings of traditional religious communities, essentially do not endanger the tissues of order. They cannot be equal in this sense of the law, but these people can have their confidence and live, but the change of this member of the law, as proposed, will not prevent the adverse consequences that have been spoken of and which concerns I fully share. Therefore, it will not prevent that phenomenon because an unregistered religious community can continue to act as an unregistered religious community. Some perverse teachings, which may be at the expense of social life in our country, to the harm of family, personality, human health, etc. I can still show myself. The mechanism for protecting these values is, fortunately, not in this law, but in a set of other laws that knows our legislation, which is a set of criminal laws. So whoever kills him doesn't make him a lesser criminal by thinking he's doing it for God's sake. That's the problem with his motivation. That's the problem with psychiatric analysis the next day when there's an art of committing a crime. The fact that we're not going to have an open enume, but we're going to close it, is not going to prevent a negative phenomenon as such, and on the other hand, it's going to do a lot of damage to prevent the law from entering a norm that is fully in line with international documents dealing with human rights areas and their protection. These are my arguments, unrelated to what I've heard as an argument for the applicant of the amendment. And again, all that the applicant of the amendment has said on the basis of justifiable reasons for the amendment, I can agree, only that I have given here a second light, a second angle, a second view of the argument, which is why this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25951	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, as a misreading. The replica is given when it is offensively expressed, but it was not. If the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is wrong, please, Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25952	Mr. Markovic, you did not chair before the end of the first part, and this is about the amendment. Let me explain to my colleague Aligrudic. It wasn't just my motive for the SRS was this reason to fight religious sects, but I clearly wrote in the amendment. Therefore, Article 4 is amended and reads: "Religious freedom entities within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities". This is in direct contrast to this solution given by the minister, or government, where it is said: "Religious freedom entities within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organisations". There is no such thing with us, not only because of the fact that they really, these confessions that you call new Protestant churches, Mr. Minister, do not exist. There are no new Protestant churches anywhere in the world. Those Protestants who have their Protestant churches, traditional ones, they know who they are. These new Protestants you call confesions, they're sects. It wasn't just a goal, and I understand that you interpreted that part of the exposure in the superlative when I was talking about that fight. That's what you realized. You do not realize that this amendment is a trail of events throughout the law, the intensity of the SRS to retain what is traditional, those goals that have these traditional religious communities, founded hundreds of years ago, that is, and their legal subjectivity. There's a big difference in our watching things. You say they'll be sanctioned. They already have countless crimes committed by this so-called. Confusions on the premises of our country. They've never been sanctioned so far. Now they are given the opportunity to expand and act by institutionally recognising them through this bill. And these others, so, and I have to say again, they're going to be by the witch hunt system, these are fine, and these others, which you say are destructive and still the minister doesn't call them sects, they're not right. And those who are confesions, I've only given some of the examples, and politicians and some celebrities, who are classified in the order of these sects and their extraordinary destructive actions. Mr. Minister, let me tell you, when it comes to you. Colleges and so-called Schools, you say that's where smart people go and go to school. How can you be smart people who hit traditional religious communities like that, and who behave like that, and who have such misreading, and who are fans don't know what, and don't respect (President: Thank you. ) what was first established in our SPC and other traditional religious communities. So much for the clear difference I made in my presentation before the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25953	I have just respected the fact that the debate on amendments has begun before, and now I am asking all MPs to respect the fact that this is not a debate on the law, but in particular. Reasons are being clarified, a debate is being held on the reasons for the need by the promoter to propose some amendments. That's what the law wants to improve, we have no reason to doubt it. Also, the reasons, those who believe that this effect is achieved or not achieved. It's not the polemics, it's the reasoning of attitudes. In that sense, I support the tone in which the previous discussion worked. Also, I'll try to do it in the future. In accordance with Article 101, I will use Article 3 to decide whether there are grounds for replication or not, in terms of interpretation. Here you go, Mr. Prophetovich, another four minutes for your parliamentary group for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25954	There are two kinds of reasons why this amendment should not be accepted. The first are formal-legal character, the second are essential character. Formally-lawfully, in addition to seven traditional churches and religious communities that are defined by this law, we don't have forever, but we have a decades-old tradition of certain Protestant churches in our space, such as Baptist and evangelist. This was not formally recognised between the two world wars, but was recognised by the Law on the Legal Position of the FNRJ Religious Communities and confirmed by the same SRS law. It first happened in 1953, the second one in 1977. So, formal-legal continued continuity. Is there a dogmatic problem with the work of these churches? It should regulate churches and churches themselves to determine themselves accordingly. Essentially, the division of religious and confessional communities is absolutely logical. One is faith, something else entirely is confusion. As this is regulated in some other legislation, so is ours. If we are talking about the space left for some other religious communities, it is not fair to say that a formal-legal space for the functioning of religious sects is being opened. I will remind, for example, of our history that took place in the 1920s and 30s, when some unfortunate Buddhists came as refugees to Belgrade. There were a couple hundred of them here. They had their temple around the boulevard revolution, they even had their own street, Buddhist. The accident wanted to be relocated during World War II, to destroy their temple, and to experience the fate of long countrymen who had fled to other countries. It is officially recognised religion in all countries of the world. Their believers have over a billion. I don't want similar situations to be repeated in the future, but it is a religious organization that, according to the letter of the law, should be allowed to work uninterrupted. Something else about religious sects, if they're destructive, then they're subject to the Law of Infraction, the Criminal Code, and they don't need to be dealt with by the law. The law on churches and religious communities has only defined that if there is a problem so far, and what should be declared by the competent state authorities, then these organisations will not even be allowed to register.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25955	Thank you very much, Mr. Prophet. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. Having adopted the amendment by a representative of the proposings and the Committee on European Integration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic. The government and the European Integration Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25956	Thank you, Mr. President. So one of the important members of this law. It reads: "The state cannot interfere with the application of autonomous regulations of churches and religious communities." I completely agree with what was meant to be said in that section of Article 7, so in the first position. For me, however, the second position of Article 7 of the proposed law reads: ''For the enforcement of judicial decisions and judgments issued by the competent authorities of the churches and religious communities of the states provides appropriate assistance, at their request, in accordance with the law. ''I suggest that the second position of Article 7 of the proposed law be deleted, and here is why. I must say immediately that this is one of the members for which I claim that this law violates the principle of separation of the state and the church, that is, the secularity of this state. The proposed solution in Article 7(2). The bill attaches the same legal importance to the judgments of state courts and decisions of religious communities, which I must conclude, indeed, at least I don't know that there is any case, except in the theocratic, fundamentalistic states. The proposed formulation also opens the door to a parallel judicial system, which has been removed from the legislative and administrative authorities. I'd like the minister to give me an example, so, in accordance with this article, when the state acts the way it's defined here. So, really, I can't find an example. She liked to tell me, I may not be hitting the point, but as it's written to me here, this article suggests the creation of a parallel justice system. In addition, there is no precise procedure in making judicial decisions and judgments issued by the competent authorities of churches and religious communities. Is there a right to appeal to these decisions, the right to judicial protection in this case, who is in charge of control of this issue. I'd just like to, since it's very problematic and a para-state system is essentially being created, so I'm asking the minister to explain what this member's idea is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25957	Not to us, you can explain to Mrs Nestorovic, there is no need for all MPs if they do not ask. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic, according to the same amendment. This is a discussion in particular, take care of rhetorical forms.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25958	After a three-hour debate on basic provisions, we have moved on to the essence of what the proposing is trying to propose to MPs through parliament to become an integral part of the law. We have come to the autonomy of churches and religious communities, as this chapter two says. The amendment that we have submitted, which Ljiljana Nestorović read, actually speaks of how unacceptable it is for us to regulate the relationship primarily between the church and the state, for the simple reason that, on several occasions, according to previous amendments, we have said that there is no explicit in this law that the state is separate from the church. No matter what you mention somewhere in the beginning, there is no state religion, so you did not follow the order of what some of the laws of the state union, the recommendations of various international institutions and organisations, and the Constitution of Serbia itself, but that is why we are in trouble, we see it, in this Article 7. Because it can really be felt that what you have suggested allows churches and religious communities to act only by their own internal rules, without any restrictions. Perhaps if it were to continue this text and supplement some new attitude to work there in accordance with existing laws or in something that I am not ready at this moment to clearly articulate, maybe things would be clearer. For example, it is envisaged that the State shall provide appropriate assistance for the enforcement of judicial decisions and judgments issued by the competent authorities and churches and religious communities, on their request, in accordance with this law. You see, that attitude violates the principle of separation of the state from the church, exactly what we have repeatedly apostropheded about, speaking of the basic provisions of this law, these are the first three members. In addition, it is not seen in what you have proposed in Article 7 nor, as I would say, a clearly specified procedure in the decision-making process and judgments issued by the same competent authorities of churches and religious communities. There is no thing that lawyers know much better than I do, because I am not, whether there is a right to appeal to that decision, the right to judicial protection, which my colleague Krasic knows from me in this case, etc., and what is most important, there is no one in charge of control, and it is about this issue. So we have proposed an amendment which deletes this position 2 and we think that if this amendment is accepted, and I believe that most MPs will accept that amendment, simply from the fact that it was said for a moment, we will not allow us to be one of the few countries where what you are proposing is actually happening, therefore, to enter into something that would not put us in a country like some country that has a fundamentalist, theocratic arrangement. And that's why this formulation that we've given and opened the door to what Ljiljana was talking about, which is this parallel instrument or mechanism that should decide and make decisions in these two institutions, I mean the church and the religious community, on the one hand, and on the other hand to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25959	I ask all participants in the debate to address their colleagues and colleagues by their last name. It's simply because of the dignity of the work of the Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25960	I am not surprised by this amendment by Mrs Nestorovic and Mr Omerovic, because as it is written, it can really cause different interpretations. But what's quite certain, regardless of this stupid formula of attitude 2, is just a good start - to execute judicial decisions. So if the state does something, it only assists in implementing some decision made by the competent authority of the registered church, if I have to take those terms. However, it can create a confusion of this word at the end -- appropriate help. There can be anything and everything. I think it's much better to accept this amendment, to throw this out, for the simple reason that the police and these other authorities, by the rule of law, assist. But where you made a mistake, you believe that the state here, through its competent authorities, is getting involved in something that is the autonomous right of the church. It's impossible and it's not even predicted by this attitude. This attitude refers only to the process of executing a judicial decision by a church organ. Now it's just to be clear to everyone, so there's no confusion. It's clear to Mr. Markovic, you should have called him, let him explain. What's this about? Some priest closes himself in the church, and it's broken up. What do you want the church government to do now? She made a decision to tear him apart, he barricaded himself in the church. You explain to me what is the power that needs to be helped, what should priests do to chase an ex-collar around a church or to throw him out of the church? They call nicely on the competent state authority, present their decisions, and stop it. Everyone's gonna talk about this attitude. You'd better accept this amendment, less will hurt the head of both the state and the church.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25961	National MP Dusan Prophetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25962	I must appeal to the comparative right and say that similar legislation exists, for example, in Greece, which has been a full member of the EU for 20 and more years. Just what Mr. Krasic said, there was an example in Greece, where a faction or part of the priest was singled out in so-called. It's a zilot wing. The church wouldn't admit them, couldn't fight each other, broke them up, invited only the state to assist and return objects to those who were church authorities, or who were authorized in the name of the Greek Orthodox Church to preach and everything else. I'm afraid more damage would be by eradicating this member than by staying. I'm afraid the direct consequence would be the State's interference in certain church matters, the interpretation of the state's body of church law. I'm afraid we would come to a situation that exists today in Montenegro, where the state is being appointed as some sovereign to decide whether the legitimate Serbian Orthodox Church and the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, which is older and what has happened in history. That's why I'm not up for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25963	Thank you, Mr. Prophetic, and thank you for reminding us all of the Esphigmen monastery case, which has also affected the state of Hilandar monastery. Any other MPs? Replica? Don't, please, I just told the previous speaker, I don't know if you've paid attention. Since, on the basis of Article 3(3), the President decides on the right to replication, on the basis of whether it was offensive or not, and wrong interpretation, or whether it was merely an explanation of its position, I realized that this was an explanation of the attitude. Please understand. Not on the basis of the mention, but on the basis of whether or not the MP is being offensively expressed. In no way, I respect that you all respect it, no one has ever spoken offensively of it. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and if there is any time left for the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Krasic will speak afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Belief of Radeta, an MP of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. Article 8. The bill treats the right of priests, or religious officials, in the sense that they are chosen and appointed by churches and religious communities, in accordance with their autonomous regulations. Priests, or religious officials, are free to be independent in the pursuit of godly activity, which is carried out in accordance with the law and the autonomous law of churches and religious communities. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the Radeta vernacular has submitted an amendment to add, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Articles 4 and 5 to the proposed Article 8 following the 3rd sentence. Paragraph 4 reads: "The carrying out of religious rituals and the handling of churches and religious communities or their organisational units can only be done by persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. ''Stage 5: ''Foreign citizens can perform religious rituals and be elders of churches and religious communities or their organisational units only on the basis of the previous consent of the competent ministry. "In this case, in the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Faith. I believe it is contained in the proposed amendment and how justified. On the one hand, we respect the autonomy of churches and religious communities, according to us in the SRS, tax-listed churches and religious communities from the amendment of Natasa Jovanovic, MPs of the SRS. On the other hand, if you do not adopt this amendment, we are giving wide freedom and the possibility for many religious communities of suspicious activity, suspicious origin and suspicious learning, not to mention the possibility of registration, as you have imagined in the bill, that they act with the aspect of totalitarianism, destruction, sociality, to break personality, man, citizen, family, society and state, the existence of various cults, psycho-organization, commercial cults and guru of movement, etc. Can you imagine, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that now the competent ministry, under the proposal of your law, registers some problematic religious community, or organization, which we in the SRS consider to have and how the traits and characteristics of the religious sect, so that various followers of these Eastern pseudo-oustic religious sects, guru, those who deal with meditation, mantras, who exercise the control of the mind, who influence the personality and psyche of man. The state has to take care of it, it has to exercise control, and we express that control right through the provision of Article 2 of the amendment. If necessary and if there is a community that you will admit, since I am counting on you to collect the majority and vote this bill on churches and religious communities in the text proposed by the Government, where there are provisions on registration and the possibility of registration of many religious organizations, so you will give someone the opportunity not only to register, but to have their missionaries come. To meet those years back, what kind of missionaries come to our country, what job, what job? It's just an example of us, which was listed here yesterday and today at the pay phone, John David Nabor from the so-called Pentagon church. I know that this control, which the SRS advocates, by the state, will be able to carry out all the priestly duties, to encounter the disapproval of many NGOs, Natasha Kandić, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Borka Pavicevic etc. Of course, that might be the TV, too, and I'm not going to use any abusive title, although I have a desire to say a lot of things ugly to them, this television that calls itself B92, and they, in terms of providing broad freedom to all religious organizations, to all the citizens of the world, to create one world religion, one world government, a new "New Age", without Orthodoxism, without confiscation, without religion, except for one unique religion in the world that they're going to create and that they're trying to create in this way. In order to advocate such a new era, the new world order, they will criticise us from the SRS for such a pledge, even through Mrs Verice Radete's amendment to Article 8. It's a bill of law. What bothers me as a citizen, especially as a representative and an MP of the SRS, is the appearance of some of my colleagues for a pay phone and an advocate not for the control of religious communities in terms of amendments to the SRS, but also to praise the solutions under the bill. It is politically, partyically and understandable, but it bothers me when they state that religious communities, religious organisations are accepted, registered in accordance with the Law on the Legal Position of the Religious Community of 1953 and 1977, which is not true. Here's the law. He doesn't predict any religious communities, which churches can register. Good to know you're going out for a pay phone, on February 1st 1995, the Serbian Supreme Court made a decision, a verdict, that religious communities cannot register as citizens' associations. If that's what you mean, you're wrong. If there is a general absolute freedom that citizens can freely establish religious communities and the position of Article 2 of the Law which you state on the legal position of religious communities, all communities have the same legal position. This does not mean that it can register and that there can be anything that it wants to act with a religious aspect in Serbia. (Milan Radulovic, from the post: It is the law of 1953. No, this is the 1977 law, and from 1953, they're similar. There are some truths here that there are negative legal forms of the work of religious organizations. That's what I'm saying from the SRS aspect that it's religious sects and it's treated by some other laws, special laws, let's say, Criminal Code. What about a large number of suicides stemming from belonging to certain religious sects, mostly Satanism. Here's an example. The 20-year-old, Srljig is concerned, Predrag Djordjevic one day committed suicide, and previously made isolation so as not to leave a mark on the body, as some sects dictate it. Later, on August 7th, Srdjan Svetozarević took his own life with his father's carabin. Both suicides occurred at a time when the moon was full. They both remember each other as calm and withdrawn young men. How's the Criminal Law going to work here? What state institution? Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my dear fellow Members, this is where it seems to be counterproductive. If you allow the law to register religious sects that operate in this way, you give them the legitimacy of existence to recruit young personalities that are now lost in this time of unemployment and hopelessness, where there are not enough material resources for naked life to survive. There's no work, there's not enough money in the family, with individuals and, of course, they're running into a new world. This new world gives them a new world order through the operation of religious sects, and there are such tragic cases as here. You should ask, Mr. Minister, from traditional churches and religious communities for a report on the number of victims, medical services, VMA. VMA has countless examples of treatment of religious sects, satanic, scientological, and others, transcendental meditation, Jehovah’s Witnesses, social service, police service. The police service of countless examples, countless reports can give us and you know it well, and I know it, but I speak for other MPs, for the sake of the public, there are countless data on the harmful functioning of religious sects, about the disturbance of public order and peace, murders and suicides, crimes about financial fraud, and there are specialized scientologists. Now you're talking about Greece, which banned scientology in 1997, following the murder of a protoire, a priest of the Greek Orthodox Church by a scientologist. On January 17th 1997, the Athens court banned the work of scientology based on 4,400 complaints from citizens about their behaviour and work. In Germany and today, scientology has been particularly monitored, despite Germany's conflicting politically, diplomatically with the United States for this very reason. The Supreme Court in Los Angeles, America, in 1994 confirmed the criminogenicity of scientology. Mr. Minister, I know you know this well, but you should advocate through the bill and through certain amendments, which we MPs of the SRS are offering, in order to improve this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25965	Here you go, Mr. Krassic. You've got four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25966	Mr. Radulovich, did you write this text here? What did you accuse the SPC of? She didn't burn down the Federal Assembly. You shouldn't have done something like this. I know you wrote all kinds of things, but you shouldn't have written this. How could you write this about being an associate of the SPC - the state and religious communities in Serbia in the second half of the 20th century, so you found Milan Radulović, Slobodan G. Markovic, Sasa Gajic, Zivica Tucic, Slobodan Durmanovic. My society is much better, Vladimir Dimitrijevic, Predrag Kuk, Smilja Avramov, my society is much better understood in these things than this one of yours. We'll talk about it a little later, especially around this paragraph on the eighth side. That's nice of you to explain to the patriarch how you accuse him of supporting you in the burning of the congregation. So, Mrs. Radeta has tabled an amendment where she suggests that a two-seat supplement be carried out. Performing religious rituals and handling churches and religious communities or their organisational units can only be done by persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in the next position it requires to be complemented, if it is a foreigner, that consent of the competent ministry is needed. Of course, you're going to jump to say - what the state would interfere with in fact churches etc. It's nothing weird. In Italy, too, the world government interferes in church affairs when setting up priests, bishops, etc. Now, since I know you're prepared, you think you're gonna double-cross the SPC, it's not gonna work this time, I'm telling you. Let me tell you that in 1972, when he was elected bishop, this very praised Hitler, the hero Benedict XVI, Joseph Racinger, had to swear in Bavaria that he would be loyal to the German state as a bishop. He took an oath, though German, in his province where he lives the oath. We haven't gone this far and your criticism of the communist authorities, the communist government has never forced priests to swear allegiance to Tito, the party and the youth, the National Assembly, etc. The church was separated from us a long time ago. Let go of that exaggeration. With the church there's a dispute, the state took the property, but that's another question. In another way, he'll get rid of it. So, nothing is anachronous in this amendment, nothing is required by this amendment more than there is in the countries of Western Europe that you are seeking, although I see this report from your accelerated path there is nothing, we will not. Written by - you have it from G17 plus all these possible reports, they won't even think about us, what the EU. Citizens of the EU say goodbye, these five years have passed, five years of lies, false hopes that we will come, etc. Nisha will not be bad at accepting this amendment, so before you force yourself to vote this possibility that, besides churches and traditional religious communities, they will be in the same position as you call with confetti, and this other one called religious sects. Since we know that you will forcely vote it, we have asked for these two attitudes to be built in Article 8, which guarantee that worship and these other things that are important for the achievement of freedom of religion that as priests and as priests will do our citizens. Let me tell you right now, and we're taking a big risk here. You have Natasha Kandic, our citizen. Did you read what she said in Sarajevo the other day when she won the prize? He says it's not that you sued the SCG, it's that you should better represent that Serbia condemns as much as possible the genocide allegedly committed. So, with us, this treasonous mentality has long been present, followed by the Serb people from the beginning, so that what was proposed by the amendment is just a small guarantee and protection so that it doesn't happen, because you'll register both religious sects and all that, so that there's some counterproductive and drive our children astray, so that they start killing parents, grandparents, etc. If Benedict XVI could have sworn an oath, and later I'll tell you what his oath meant, and somehow deny it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25967	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. MP Borko Ilic. According to this amendment, with a included discount that I always give to finish the sentence. National MP Borko Ilic, then MP Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, if we were to accept this amendment, we would violate one of the basic principles that the law promotes, which is the separation of the church from the state. Because, if we accept the amendment, which says that the carrying out of religious rituals and the handling of churches and religious communities or their organisational units can only be done by persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the position 2. that foreign citizens can perform religious rituals and be elders of churches and religious communities or their organisational units only on the basis of the prior consent of the competent ministry. In this case, the competent ministry would interfere with who serves God in a particular church community or in a particular religious community, i.e. It would interfere directly with who would perform religious rituals and manage church and religious communities. Now, what does this mean in practice? It means that Patriarch Moskovski and all of Russia, Alexei, is coming to visit Serbia, as head of the world's largest Orthodox church with some 190 million believers, and it is understood that during his visits to the SPC and the state of Serbia, he serves God in one of the temples of the SPC. He, as the patriarch of all Russia and Patriarch Moskovski, should write an application to the minister and ask him if he can serve God at the temple of St. Sava on Vrakar. Can you do that? He can't, gentlemen. The second, even more important thing, the patriarch Serbian gentleman Paule was born in Slavonia, though at a time when Slavonia was still part of the common state. But what can happen in the future? The Serbian Orthodox Church has dioceses and believers on the entire globe, and a Serb is born in Slavonia, goes and ends the Serbian religion in Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, caves in the Krko monastery in Dalmatia, the monastery comes from the XIV century, the territory of today's Republic of Croatia, becomes the Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljanski, has no citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, because it has simply never been in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Orthodox Church, as the Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljanski, chooses him as the patriarch of the SPC, and we limit him from being a patriarch because he is not a citizen. Well, that's just crazy. I truly understand Mrs Radete's sincere intention and Serbian Radical Party MPs to prevent this amendment from the functioning of religious sects in the Republic of Serbia, or individual foreign citizens that would act negatively on youth in the Republic of Serbia. However, their actions are not suppressed by this law, their operation is suppressed by a general action, where exactly the traditional church and religious communities recognised in the world should be a strike force that will prevent religious sects from functioning in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25969	Thank you. I've seen you before, Mr. Krasic. First a few notes, please. Mr. Ilic, there is no chairman at the moment because I have not authorized him, the president is present. You don't have a problem. So, please, we're all leading together, hopefully, tolerant debate, we're giving each other arguments. Whenever there is, I thank everyone for your willingness to give as many examples as possible, because the good law, you know it best, Mr. Krasic, depending on what happens in practice, can often be pointless. We've given a few good examples, Esfigmen, you've set a similar example before, Mr Krasic, but let's not give those examples that are not in any way solved by this law, not today, not in the future, never in the Church of the Serbian Orthodox Church can serve, can only help serve, serve. It simply raises the temperature and MPs react to each other, and there is no reason. Also, please, the two of you who came forward for the wrong interpretation, please, two MPs, I speak in the male race, Mr Krasic and Mr Radovanovic have been looking for a replica because of the wrong interpretation of the views. Please, let us first hear the MPs of other MPs' groups, because the tolerated atmosphere is necessary, to hear the arguments they make. If these arguments, apart from being different and implying different attitudes, are at the same time misreading or even insulting, I will certainly give the right to replication. And if not, I will act as in the previous two cases, which I have informed the messengers of. Please think while we hear Mr. Nedimovic. Thank you for understanding. Before that, Miss Jovanovic reported in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25970	You are both president and chairman, Mr. Markovic, also, because you are the president of the National Assembly, but you are chairing the session, because if it weren't for us not being able to work here, we'd just be watching each other. I just want to, in line with what you've been saying, to get involved when it comes to this trendy interpretation through examples that were really not the subject of Mrs. Radete's amendment, which was presented by a colleague. To say that she primarily meant so-called. preachers of religious sects and those who go through Serbia and other Serbian countries, and Russia as well. I must repeat to you that the Universal National Assembly was held on this very subject because every sectarian organization and false preachers appeared in the territory of the Russian state, which is aimed at, in addition to wanting to register these sects there, which is a different process, according to the law passed by the Russian Federation in 1997, affecting society and people very negatively and destructively, as all sects do. I'm really surprised, buddy, that you didn't give an example of a Mormon. You're coming from Novi Sad, for now there are registered thoughts in the area of Novi Sad, which is unfortunate, several hundred. This morning, I set an example for such a false preacher. You know, just because they exist, and they're a religious community, and they're recognised by the United States, that doesn't mean that they should have stops here in Serbia, where such sects don't have any foothold and they shouldn't have. And against them every normal should fight with his means, with his traditional faith, and we Serbian Orthodox and other traditional communities. But if one of them shows up and comes from Utah, and the whole of Utah, and their club that plays in the NBA, if they're all Mormons, it doesn't mean that we have to justify their operation here, and that one of them appears, and that even the police are bringing him in, who keeps these "preach" on the streets of Belgrade or I don't know where, and he presents himself as a descendant of the German or otherwise blasphemy of God, and Christianity and I don't know what he's doing. In any case, it was the intention of Mrs Radete and the SRS, with the confirmation of what the President of the Assembly told you, when it comes to the arrival of the Patriarch of Moscow and all of Russia, Alexei II, what you said, and participation in the service, or the liturgy of the SPC, which is the exact information that Mr Markovic gave you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25971	As well as all the information. Thank you. Please, it is not correct for colleagues who have already detailed, respecting the Rules of Procedure, explained their position on the amendment and who have accepted it as a sign of equality, but now as a sign of gentlemanship that, without calling on the Rules of Procedure, one more word about the amendment is being made. There's no reason, the arguments we've heard worked convincingly, and maybe we'll hear it later, depending on what we just agreed on. Here you go, Mr. Nedimovic. Branislav Nedimovic according to the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25972	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I absolutely respect all the views that my colleagues have previously made regarding the amendment, which our colleague, Mrs. Radeta, proposed in the proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. There's one thing I'd like to say, which is that I can't get out of the amendment if I knew what my colleague wanted, or what she meant. I promise you, when Radeta comes, I'm going to ask her for her opinion because from the amendment itself, I can't know that. I would like to say a few other things about Article 8 or Articles 4 and 5 within Article 8, where the legal position of the church and the religious communities is regulated. As Mr. President just said, the laws are passed because of practice, you will agree, and the laws are passed in order to be respected. We can have a few extremely complex situations. I come from the territory of Sremska Mitrovica, I come from behind the slopes of Fruska Gora, where there are an extremely large number of monasteries, and thus we have a large number of monks, a large number of priests. We are also on the border with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. A large number of people come from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's territory to these monasteries, wants to be replaced later on, based on the church's decision, they would also like to become church dignitaries. This can lead to a series of practical problems. We'd have to every time the church wanted to choose them to address the minister. The minister represents the ministry, representing a state body. There would absolutely be State interference in the inner affairs of the church, and we don't want that. We have governments all over the world. What if, on the basis of reciprocity, these countries put in their laws the provisions that we want to put in these amendments here? What if they said in the next year or two to pass a new law on churches that regulates this matter in Sweden and that our bishop who comes there must have Swedish citizenship. What kind of situation would we lead to? One of the fundamental elements of the state is the people, therefore, a collection of individuals who have certain citizenship. I don't want any more of our citizens giving up our citizenship for any reason. I also don't want any of our church dignitaries abroad to have to give up citizenship based on reciprocity, the assumption is that they have to give up their citizenship in order to perform a certain church function. Please, since we are adopting all the amendments here as the Rules of Procedure and the Law require, we respect them mostly. We are not doing any force here, as someone just said, but simply by voting MPs according to our own will, we accept or do not accept a certain amendment. For reasons that I have just cited and listed by my predecessors, I would ask you not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25973	Here, you stayed at the request for a replica, Mr Krasic, on the basis of the incorrect interpretation of the exhibit, i.e. the examples are contrary to the examples and reasons given.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25974	Now I understand why they're making this English course in a small hall. You've been talking about don't touch the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25975	Excuse me, Mr. Krassic, I'll give you your time. It's not correct, we've explained several times that no English course is being held. Don't confuse the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25976	They don't know what member it's about. This is Article 8, and it says, the rights of priests, or religious officials. There is no talk of the rights of those who have come to the invitation of a church that works, lives and works in Serbia. This article 8 doesn't touch Alexei at all, who you took as an example. To make it a little bit clearer, this touches the rights of foreigners in our country. Do you know we have a regulation? I can't explain to you if you don't read the attitude of the first who says, priests, or religious officials, chooses and sets up a church and a religious community in accordance with their regulations. But, priests, those who do the service daily, there are, living, working, having a parish, having a parish, as it is called. This member doesn't touch Alexei the Second at all. How does he touch him when he does not serve? He came for Patriarch's invitation, attended liturgy and went home. He's a foreign citizen. What a foreign citizen. (From the O.R.: How will he enter the service? So don't do the service. It is known who is the elder of the temple of St. Sava. This is where we talk about another topic. There's no talking about the Schengen list here, you don't understand what it's about. There's talk here about who's going to be in church working and do official duty as a priest. Are you making a difference between a believer and a priest? This one goes to the monks, let go of the monk; the monk is not a priest. What does the minister give, what consent? It gives consent that a stranger may be in a working relationship in a church. They give consent to strangers when they come to us to work. These priests of ours going to America have to get their first permanent residence in America. What are you talking about? Gentlemen of the Serbian Orthodox Church, now you understand why they are passing this law. They pass this law to register religious communities, to register sects. The bill does not stand for the Serbian Orthodox Church but for the G17 Plus and other sects, Labus, Panic and these others. That's how it got out. Here's a case that's come out who's pulling this law and why he's pulling this law. Now it's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25977	A basic note for people who believe, if you explain it from that point of view, does not scream at the church and you have no reason to shout so much saying that you are at the position of the Serbian Orthodox Church. I also ask you all, let us hear in peace the objections to this amendment, the attitudes of this amendment, and that this is a toleranceal debate, and there is no reason to alarm the public. Of course, there is no church behind this law, there is no need to publish it from a pay phone, the government of the Republic of Serbia is behind this law, and its author is the competent minister of religion, Mr. Radulovic, who is present all the time and is at your disposal. Now according to the amendments. First, there are seven minutes left, if you do not use all Mr Aligrudić, you will also get the word Mrs Vojić, and then the next parliamentary group. I'm afraid a lot of people haven't been to church in a long time, the way they behave. Mr. Radovanovic reminds me that he remains in the decision. When he answered earlier, he came across a request after which Miss Jovanovic spoke. So, he would like to make a replica of Mr. Bork Ilic's exposure. Then, in a row, the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and then Zoran Ćirkovic, respectively. We're going from one parliamentary group to another. I'm warning you, in case the behavior isn't dignified and simply harassing citizens with incorrect data, I'm going to take a break to clear this up. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little surprised by the reaction of certain members of the ruling party, which, of course, is the most dominant in the ruling coalition. Why? I really don't understand my fellow MPs from the DSS, why they're looking for a problem in the SRS amendment where it's not there. It is no problem if the SPC visits the bishops of Moscow and all Russia, Alexei II, to visit Serbia, to visit the SPC. This is about, and Mr Krasic told you nicely, about priests, or religious officials, about their rights, above all, on social rights. Because here, if we suggest heading 3 and 4 respectively, and 5, that this should be foreseen by agreement, by a foreign citizen and by the competent ministry that he may come. People, one of you said, the gentleman I'm replicating right now is well told, we SRS MPs are concerned that there is no registration of any religious organization that is associative, totalitarian, destructive, which is harmful to family, personality, society and state in general. Can you, dear gentlemen of the ruling coalition, can you gentlemen of the People's MPs, my colleagues from the DSS, imagine a situation that some follower of Maharishi Mahesh Jogi from the transcendental meditation and his guru come here as strangers to hold the sermons of the mantra, or one of the followers of Lafayeth Ron Habart, the creator of scientology, or Alistair Crowley, the creator of Satanist, Ordo Temple Orients, or followers of Jim Jones, the Temple of the People, when in 1978 they committed suicide, 911 on some record, 913 or 923, however, there are a large number of people who committed suicide. Can you imagine one of their followers coming here as a stranger, a foreign citizen and without the consent of the state of Serbia in which we live, doing such things? It's really unimaginable to me as a Serbian radical. My dear colleague, that's the problem. It's not a problem in Alexei II, it's not a problem in Patriarch Pavle if he goes to the Krka monastery, if there's a Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljan Mytropolis and he's supposed to come to Serbia. That's not the problem. You're looking for, Mr. Aligrudic, a problem in that, and we don't see the problem in that. We see a problem in this. I am concerned about the involvement of DSS MPs in the total liberalisation of the possibility of registering religious organizations, and particularly religious sects. In view of the fact that through the bill, this is what democratic society is looking for, my people, a multi-party system was introduced here in 1990, pluralism. (President: Time. ) Of course we live in a democratic society, with a large number of parties, parties, with a large number of people actively participating in party work. Citizens can choose, and now they've elected you, and tomorrow they'll choose the SRS to rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25979	I can't choose, it's been four minutes, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25980	Here, I'm done. If we take into account your commitment to liberalization and the possibility of registering religious sects and the democratic society you insist on, which is present, it is too much to talk about. Can we talk about the democratic sects of Serbia or about the DSS briefly?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25981	Please, please, of course, Rules of Procedure Aligrudić, Jovanovic, then according to the Rules of Procedure Aligrudić and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25982	Of course, this offends the dignity of the MPs, especially those belonging to one of the MPs. Now, please, we're having a discussion today about the individual amendments that have been submitted. The debate was conducted correctly by DSS MPs. We talked about the essence of the amendments and their consistency with the proposed text of the law and commented on the legal and other essential aspects of these amendments that have been submitted. I don't see the reason for that kind of nervousness and that kind of aggressive appearance towards your colleagues in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you call them sects and that you shorten the name DSS by pointing out that these are some sects. So, what you've just said, it's a deep disrespect for our colleagues sitting here and we haven't shown a single moment today at a pay phone in this National Assembly. It's the first thing about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, when we talk about this subject today, we see that we are talking about the essence of the amendment, about what has been submitted and we see that when we talk about this amendment, we are talking about what it says and what it says is the subject of discussion and it is the subject of voting the next day. If the amendment says, and writes -- performing religious rituals and handling churches and religious communities and their organisational units can only be done by persons who are citizens of Serbia, and those who do not have the consent of the ministry. This means that performance can never be done without the minister's consent by Alexei the Second when he comes to our country's guests. That's what it says. If you wanted to write something else, you should have written it. If you wrote what you wrote, don't twist what you wrote for the public. Anyone can come to the National Assembly to make an insight into the written amendment and read what it says here. So if you're wrong, you're sorry now, and I'm sorry about that. This is what it says here. What does that have to do with sects? I have explained before in my discussion that those who act destructively, who commit crimes or who undermine the basic values of a society defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that those persons are subject to responsibilities under other norms of the other laws of this country and that the rule of law will never allow such a thing to happen. What does this have to do with the completion of the emulation of religious communities proposed in Article 4 of this Act and Article 11. Nothing. It doesn't matter, it's a complete detour. Therefore, we are having a serious discussion about the law and the bill proposal, with great respect for most of the amendments that have been tabled here, so far I have discussed the amendments that have been submitted, in relation to the motives of those who have submitted the amendments, with great respect and these motives, even with some agreement, my own personal motives, with the motives that I have heard here in the discussions of the representatives of the SRS, it is completely abnormal for this discussion to turn into something completely different, that the MPs of the DSS or the ruling coalitions are accusing themselves of wanting to introduce vicious religious sects into Serbia and turn the state into a front of religious sects. It's really not normal. That way, if we discuss it, if we talk to each other, then I really don't understand what it looks like. That's very ugly. We discuss the law here, we can look differently at motives, we can look differently at the reasons for the amendments, we can also discuss. We have done this in a very peaceful way so far and have tried to point out why, in the context of the whole of the law, some of the proposed amendments are not acceptable to us, because those who submit have the right to explain why they should be adopted. I don't see that that could be the reason we've had this kind of discussion that we've had a chance to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25983	Thank you. I believe that simply the disturbance of order at the session occurred by incorrect interpretation or lapus, I hope, Mr. Radovanovic. Be kind, please, there's no reason, for God's sake, check in the stenogram, I would certainly warn the MP that a party called the sect here. Please, a 10-minute break based on Article 105, to be checked and to establish order. There's no reason to accuse each other, because I don't think that was the intention. Then first, according to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic will have the word, and we have already announced this, of course. Thank you. In 10 minutes, I hope it's possible to determine by the stenogram what happened. You're on the amendment, no problem, we'll settle after the break. Thank you, Mrs. Vojic. [[After break – 16.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work. I hope that the assurances will be exchanged in the meantime and confirmed by a stenogram. I thank Mr. Aligrudic and Mr. Radovanovic for being prepared to see if that's okay. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, and MP Nemanja Sarovic reported. We go in that order, and if anyone gives up, please give me a sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25985	Mr. Markovicu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the amendment of her colleague, Verica Radeta, who had a clear intention and presented her position as SRS. From our presentation, it was clear, first of all, to the authorised representative, what we wanted to say, but through this amendment, another story was introduced that simply had nothing to do with reality and some details that I'm going to mention now, because it wasn't worth what we were saying or any of the examples we were making. I have the impression that in another way the opposite party, the ruling party, wanted to understand the submission of this amendment. It was unclear to me from the very beginning why the dignitaries of the SPC intervened in this example in favour of the fact that the amendment was not acceptable. I have to tell you what some of you probably know, and some don't. The SPC has its own Constitution and its laws, its own regulations, and no one can, and Mr. Minister also knows from no traditional community to come to the area here, let alone to belong to the sister Orthodox church or to be of some SPC diocese, to perform the ceremony, and so Mr. Markovic told you, just to serve in the SPC. On the other hand, everything that the law gives I don't know what kind of possibility, just listen to me, pal, the church has its own Constitution and a law by which it can tell anyone if it's welcome. As an example, I'll give you that. If a priest comes from America, he must first go to the diocese to which he comes, the Serbian Orthodox Church, simply legitizes, to show when he is in charge, his diploma. And not only that, but that by his bishop and his eparchy he has permission to participate in serving liturgy. And that belief, it can even be three months old at most, don't mind me saying it by heart, but I think I'm right, that it's not under the ban of serving, or staying in some temple of SPC during the ceremony. I must tell you that when Patriarch is mentioned Serbian, Patriarch SPC is here in the Patriarchy in Belgrade and he is always a citizen of Serbia, or SRJ, so that the case is wrong. I still have to tell you, when it comes to the permission to leave our elected foreign bishop, remember Bishop Nikanor, Australian and New Zealand, he was now replaced by retaliated bishop Milutin, at the time he was due to go to the diocese of our SPC, so abroad, waiting for permission for a year and a half. All of this was clearly and loudly written by Radeta's colleague to perform the ritual and to be a foreign citizen. So, to perform the ceremony, first of all thinking of thousands, unfortunately, of false missionaries and those who are doing Serbia, I also told you about Russia. You can also interpret the law any way you want. As long as you know, as well as Mr. Minister, that the SPC has its own Constitution and its laws, its canons, whatever law you pass, you know that it would never allow any such false missionary, or those sectarians to come and perform any religious ritual, because our SPC in that sense only recognizes traditional religious communities, as I stated in Article 4, or amendment to the bill. And then it's pointless for us to continue to argue about it, because I guess you realize that absolutely both the intention and the correctness of my colleague Radete's amendment is in place. The fact that you now want some other counterarguments, which have no basis in reality and in what I said, I have called for Article 103 and 104, Mr. Markovic, I may not have told you at the beginning of the report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, now you want to argue because in fact this law gives these people who do not recognise the church and who would never give permission, our SPC. Don't you think Racinger could come without a call from the church and without a call from the state to Serbia as he will and as he wills, and if he does, I'll be there in three days. Well, if that's the way it's gonna be. It's a very serious thing to look at through these arguments and examples, which are only real and correct, which I've brought out, and that's what the SRS was about and the distinguished colleagues of Ms. Verice Radete.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25986	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic, and for the tone, in accordance with Articles 103 and 104, which restores dignity to this debate. I hope the speakers who asked for the Rules of Procedure in the meantime gave up? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please, now we've had a call, a public call, I hope you've both given up. I ask you one more time, if you're not, please, Mrs. Markovic, then Mr. Sarovic. Indeed, and because of the subject, and because of the way, and because of the willingness of all MPs to participate with dignity and defend their views, and the president's obligation to take care of the equality of all participants, in order to maintain order, I will have to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. Until now, I have shown tolerance, with the intention of allowing debate through time overruns, and through speech about what is not on the agenda, all in the hope that we will respect each other's dignity, but I will really have to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, otherwise, I will have objections, for a reason, from other MPs. Please, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, can you tell me a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25987	Article 103(1) Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad that after these 10 minutes we had to make, we put down the ball and all the anxiety and excitement behind us. It seemed to me at one point to argue between us about who's a better believer than us, and it didn't seem to be the subject of this law, nor did this law want to regulate it. On the other hand, I have to comment on something that goes through the past as well as on today, which is the question of sects. As a believing man, as most people are here in the hall, and as an MP, therefore, a representative of the people, I am glad that we have recognized the danger of sects and that we are trying in our own way to solve this issue and help both the state and the church to solve it. But it seems to me that it's not good that we've deviated from a law that solves something completely different. It regulates a completely legal void that exists between the state and the church and the place of the church in our public life and society. That's why it seems to me that we need to get back on the subject and talk about this article. I would not agree with my distinguished predecessor, Ms. Jovanovic, on whether we are the opposite sides. I'd say we're the same parties, because we're fighting for this law to be as good as possible, for the benefit of this country, for the church and our life together. So I ask you to go back to the topic, concentrate and continue the way we did it during the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25988	Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Markovic or the chairman, however much you prefer, has been violated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 104, and I will say later how, but also Article 27, and you have violated it. This is not the first time that you abuse your powers as president of the National Assembly, that you give yourself the right to determine when you will respect the Rules of Procedure, and when you will not, and now threaten the MPs and say: if you are not good, if you do not stop reporting to the Rules of Procedure, I will be able, or I will decide to apply it strictly afterwards. So, you must, if you are applying, and you should apply this Rules of Procedure, apply it all the time, and not apply it when it suits you, when it's such a day or I don't know in any other way. So don't threaten anyone by applying the Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure was made on your proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25990	You're absolutely right, according to Article 104(2), I give you my first warning. Go ahead and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25991	Mr. Markovic, thank you. What was the basic order, it was to wait for me to finish my presentation, and then to tell me which members of the Rules of Procedure I have possibly hurt, and then to give me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25992	Mr. Sarovic, Article 103: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure." In this regard, I have given you a warning under Article 104, paragraph 2, because you have claimed to threaten the MPs, and I have done the opposite, and I see it as an address without respect. That's why I gave you my first warning, and now continue to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25993	Mr. Markovic, first of all, I demand that you give me my time, you had no right to interrupt me, because this is not the case for the Rules of Procedure. I answered, I got my word and I have the right, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure which, in my opinion, was done. Mr. Markovic, you have now moved from threat to action and are now punishing me because you have abused the previous Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Markovic, are the one who's been talking to the Rules of Procedure for seven or eight minutes. That's what I've been pointing at before. If you do so as president of the National Assembly, then you have the moral right to indicate to anyone else that he has hurt the Rules of Procedure or that he has exceeded the time. So, when you apply the Rules of Procedure, then go away from yourself, Mr. Markovic, and first give yourself, not one, two, there are already three or four warnings, so take away your word, and get yourself out of the gym, and then bring one of the vice presidents to further lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. To go back to what was the reason I answered. In an extremely incorrect way, for who knows which time, you let the authorities say what they have, take out their vision of what just happened, and I don't think that's necessary. They're smart enough and I guess they hear Serbian citizens well enough to figure out who said what. You let a representative of the ruling coalition accuse counterpart Milovan Radovanovic of being incorrect, that he told them that the sect or anything else, and then eventually ended the session. (President:Time. ) So, the main order is to let us out of the SRS parliamentary group to respond, and only then to interrupt the session. It's also obvious that you had no reason to interrupt, and that you didn't achieve anything with that interruption. So, it's not the first time that Mr. Milos Aligrudic...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25994	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25995	Mr. Markovic, I've already asked you to deny me the time you've spent on your intruders. If necessary, I will return to my post and report to the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go, your call.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25996	I gave you my first warning based on the warnings I gave before you came to the speakers at all, not a threat, but a warning to all the MPs for their dignity. Then I clearly warned you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm telling you one more time clearly - be kind and finish, I'm not in a position to give you your time back. Be kind and finish within the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25997	Mr. Markovic, I'm just trying to finish three minutes, but three minutes of time I can talk to. I have no intention of getting used to you here, nor to speak, so politely as you speak. You keep me from making it impossible for the MPs, not just you, to point to the whole Parliament for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and for the third time you have been in my word and spent those three minutes. So, I can get off this phone booth, but be assured, Mr. Markovic, that with that kind of behavior, you won't achieve anything. You are not authorized to warn the People's Messengers that you will apply the Rules of Procedure. You have every obligation to apply it. The very fact that you said "I will apply the Rules of Procedure in the future" is to admit that you have never applied it before. So, I urge you to give yourself first, since you have admitted that you have not applied it, a warning for such behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25998	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I repeat, as I gave the warning, of course, exactly quoted, by strict adherence to the Rules of Procedure. We also adhere to the Rules of Procedure when there is mutual tolerance. That's what I'm trying to support, as I was trying to support holding order at the session. That's an explanation. I took a break to check it out, because one MP drew attention to me that a drastically injured Rules of Procedure and offended one party. On this basis they spoke, and I also spoke with Mr. Radovanovic and Mr. Aligrudic during the break, but since there are MPs who may want to be subsequently informed about the reasons for this break, which did not affect, everyone who asked for a word before the break got after, quote what he asked for and received the MP Milos Aligrudic, on the stenogram, there is no guarantee that it is correct. Milovan Radovanovic, as part of his report to the Rules of Procedure, said, "Here, I am finishing up. If we take into account your commitment to liberalization and the possibility of registering religious sects and the democratic society you insist on, which is present, it is too much to talk about. Can we talk about the democratic sects of Serbia or about the DSS briefly?" In contrast, following the discussion, I realized that it was a lapus, or other kind of association, and I did not give any warning to the MP. After receiving the stenograms, they gave each other an explanation and I hope so, obviously, because they did not report for a word by the Rules of Procedure or by the chairman of the DSS Group, Mr Aligrudic, or an authorised representative for this point, Mr Radovanovic. So it wasn't any intentional insult, or insult at all, but simply a lapus in a way of expression that he misconceived. Thank you so much for understanding. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u25999	I'm sorry, but it's only now that things are getting clear. Mr. Milovanovic said -- will the sects that will be legalized by this law receive a prefix of democracy? As far as I could understand the stenogram, and it seems to me that we all understood it that way, he meant not the DSS, but the sects that this law will give him the right of citizenship, whether they will receive a prefix of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26000	Mr. Markovic, here's a stenogram and you can check exactly what's been said. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26001	Thank you, Mr. President. So Mr. Omerovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 8. Article 8 defines the rights of priests, or religious officials, in a number of attitudes. My amendment specifically refers to item 7. This attitude of the 7th in this bill reads: "The priest cannot be called upon to bear witness to the facts and circumstances he has learned during confession or from other confidential statements given to him in the performance of his priestly service." I suggest that this attitude be changed and that the priest who has been called to testify in any court proceedings may deny his statement of the facts he has learned as a religious confessor. Important procedural laws in Serbia prohibit only those witnesses who are not released from keeping official or military secrets, while in cases of religious law-makers speak of the right to deny testimony. These two institutes are quite different, and for reasons of consistency of procedural law, which is crucial for legal certainty, Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft law should be adapted to the provisions of the procedural laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26002	Here you are, MP Meho Omerovic, and then Mr Stevanović, Bralic, Krasic, Aligrudic, came forward for amendments to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26003	Thank you, Mr. President. A very short addition to what we have proposed as an amendment that should become an integral part of Article 8. It is very understandable that the promoter has paid this much attention to Article 8 of the rights of priests, or religious officials, and what, as Ljiljana said, even nine views were incorporated into this Article 8 because it is indeed a matter that needs to be in the area of very precise and careful data to give an accurate determination of the rights of these priests and priests and priests and religious officials. However, at least we seem to be missing something else here. Part of what's missing has been read by Lily through the amendment we're proposing. We heard something that fellow MPs also suggested when referring to this article on the 8th, and therefore we suggested that this position 7. What the Committee on European Integration, through an amendment that has been accepted by you, Mr Minister, has installed, in fact, is only a reduction of this Article 7-8 attitude, where this formulation remains half. "The priest can't be called to testify to the facts and circumstances he learned during confession." The rest is erased. I think the proposal that we've made is a little more complete and in some other way, I'd say, perhaps, a better way to regulate that part of the church priests' relationship. This kind of proposal, in our opinion, seems to me to be a bit of a concern. Why do I say that? If the place that is mentioned and discussed in worship, in which the service of God is performed, becomes a place where hate is propagated, we have, unfortunately, both in recent and past history that these places were places where these priests also propagated hate, it is something that is both against the constitution and against the law, and no one bears responsibility for it. At least we don't see through this attitude 7, which is just talking about these priests' rights. So where is the responsibility for what is possible, through serving, and breaking the law and the Constitution and spreading hate. There are some more details that I think counterpart Aligrudic and the Legislative Committee will correct through the technical order. If you look closely at Article 8(3), it is said - religious officials are free and independent in accordance with the law and autonomous law of the church or the religious community, which is, of course, fine, but in the last position of the states protects the official uniform, etc. in accordance with the autonomous law of the church or the religious community. Get lost with the law. So, due to the technical draft, Milosh, correctly to insert and what stands in the third position to be just a word, I may not have followed closely, I apologize. It is predicted that priests and religious officials cannot be called to account, I return to the position of the fourth member, before the state authorities for their conduct in the performance of this duty, which I spoke of. So, it's not precise, to clarify that remark that concerns responsibility for something that will be said, you here don't specify who and how it controls these autonomous regulations of religious communities and how it's handled, after all. Furthermore, it is provided that a priest or a religious official has the right to participate in all kinds of public life, which is quite fine, unless it is prohibited by internal rules or individual church decisions or religious communities. However, this position, Mr. Minister, is in collegiate with Article 41. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines Serbia as a secular state, where the church is separated from the state. Many times you have not explicitly mentioned in Article 2 here, and this discrepancy could and seems to me to be removed by more precise definition of how priests might actually participate in public life and how. If you're going to do it through some instructions, now I'm not going to take away my colleagues' time, but here I think this proposed amendment of ours might in some way explain what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26004	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. National MP Branislav Stevanovic, three minutes after the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Rajko Bralic in front of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like, with the support of the amendment applicants to Article 8, where the rights of priests and religious officials are spoken of, to convey the opinion of my neighbours and a number of acquaintances at meetings, celebrations, funerals. I'd like to pass on the remarks, and I know that we can't influence that much, and you, Mr. Minister, can in a certain way influence, and that's, say, an unequal criterion when it comes to the services of our priests, above all, the priests. Citizens' comments are that one pop sets a price, and the other nothing, which means there should be a uniform criterion for the services of priests. Also, I'd like to say, I'd like to support it, since we had a story from Capca that the priest was in business, I don't think there's anything wrong with it, that a man can do business, and I think he would certainly do business more honestly than a certain number of politicians. To make a personal remark, the influence of a number of priests, especially religious leaders, who interfere in politics, and here in this article it is emphasized that influence is allowed, interference in politics literally to say, especially when it comes to the Catholic Church, we know that in earlier wars there have been cases where priests interfered. They were mostly haters, and of course we have more examples, which means that certain priests, or religious leaders, supported some political leaders, which proved to be very bad in our daily lives. To say in the end that your obligations as Minister of Justice, I would like to say that, I apologize, Mr. Minister of Faith, I would like to say that you should pay particular attention to our churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, through international institutions you are affecting the restoration and protection of our cultural monuments. I would also like to draw attention to the impact of happening in Croatia, the mass cataclysm of Serbs, means that the world's public knows what's going on. I would also draw attention to this when it comes to building religious facilities, and it has been announced in Kosovo and Metohija that there will be construction of over 200 mosques, too, to introduce order because it cannot possibly define the structure of the population on that territory, but that there is some normal regulation there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26006	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. So, Rajko Bralic, here you go. Then if there is no one else from the parliamentary group under this amendment, the word will be Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26007	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is very delicate. Whatever we decide, we have a problem. Assuming that the serial killer is confessing, which in practice is possible, the perpetrator of the terrible crimes, the Chedom Seaman, whatever you want, so I'm talking about the most terrible crimes because unfortunately in life it is, and if we have churches that have canonized forgiveness of sin, such as the Roman Catholic Church, therefore, you have the opportunity to be redeemed, which, of course, is terrible, it's, by my understanding of things, being cut off with everything human, with morality in the broadest sense and with all the other things that we can simply give to the rules of the state. That's part of the problem. The other part of the problem is the autonomy of a priestly or missionary or a similar call that makes this the very essence of a religious ritual and religious existence, in such a way that it could happen or, at least, I hope that it happens that someone is interrupting to commit a sin, making a confession from that moment on, doesn't do it anymore. But these are to say God's things, and in life it may seem quite different. I must say, as it stands in the law and as it is in the amendment of distinguished colleagues, it sets a great dilemma, human, moral, and everything else. There are world professions, such as the medical profession, which are sworn to Hippocrates, that spoke to a respected colleague this morning, who can also talk to a patient about the most terrible things in a patient's life and can get the knowledge of the most terrible crime the patient has committed. I have to say, here's the public speaking, I don't know what to do here. It's a dilemma for me that I can't overcome, because it's in an argument for and against so much of each other that it's very hard to make a decision. Article 8 under the heading “The Right of Priests or Religious Servants” states: The priest cannot be called to testify to the facts and circumstances he learned during confession or from other confidential statements; this is not the other, meaning confession and there is the point; thank you, Mr. Minister. And in the amendment, which was respected colleagues, colleague Nestorovic and colleague Omerovic wrote, says: The priest who was called to testify in any court proceedings can deny his testimony by the facts he learned as a religious confessor. I would define myself for what remains in this pro-compromised position of Article 8 of the law to stand. With all the dilemmas and fences I have, this is something I would never want in my life to participate in any quality, because it's scary in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26008	Yes, attention has been drawn that there is another amendment that has in the meantime become an integral part of the law. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to this amendment. Then MP Milos Aligrudic, I presume.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26009	Mr. Markovic, after the warning you gave to Nemanja Sarovic, I'm really a little scared right now, and I'm afraid to discuss it, because I'm afraid you'll take some shoes to my son too, so he doesn't have any shoes anymore. But I took the risk. So at one point, Natasa Micic did, and after three months she was no longer president. But let's take it in a row. After this intervention, attitude seven makes sense. Why does it make sense? Because if a person is proposed as a witness, usually a court, not usually but has to ask a question, and what he could testify to, what circumstances, what is he, what is his status, how has he come to know, so if it is said that it is a priest and that what he has to testify to is an integral part of the confession before that priest, then this is what is written. What is proposed by the amendment makes a little difference, and suggests that the priest can always be called in any court procedure, but when the time comes to testify about the facts and circumstances involved, now this is inexplicable, a religious confessor. That's not acceptable for our language. It also essentially comes down to the same thing, but in the extreme. I think this variant is much better after this intervention. However, this attitude of 7 is a good reason for me to say some more things, and apparently I have no luck with the ministers of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, as I come for a pay phone, everyone gets a wish to smoke. Here's the thing. The Vatican is headed by a very good organization, some call it the "black international", has the most powerful intelligence service, has the largest number of conspiring ranks of organizations, beginning with Opus Dei, societies of Jesuits, Franciscans, Jesuits, etc.; it has a special scheme of mutual communication, beginning with a common parishioner, through bishops, archbishops, to all possible parts within the Vatican structure, through the State Secretariat, etc., a very complicated organisation. It is not as state-owned as religious as it is, in terms of the organization of the Roman Catholic Church that has spread to all continents, with a problem that these 500 kilometers cannot possibly be mastered for 10 centuries and crossed over the Drina, and of course all their frustrations arise. Since the position was used, thanks to Pius XII, an action was launched to unify Europe and create the NATO Pact, and given the fact that at the end of the 1990s Vojtila submitted a memo to the OSCE Member States, requiring Slovenia and Croatia to be recognised as soon as possible, which was the cause of all war crimes that occurred on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, given that Vojtila repeatedly reiterated the request to Clinton and other leaders when they were going to bomb Serbs, the need to see what official documents and papers said, aware of the risk that Vojtila had held a ban for a long time. Since the Vatican archive was treated as a personal archive of the Pope, it was a ban on using data until 1922, and now it was raised by 1939, but practically all of these activities of the Vatican, which exceed only church issues, rather than much more affecting the issues of politics and the preservation of the interest of the Vatican caste, the need arose to search through the Hague tribunal for a warrant that would require the Vatican to open its archives and to see the impact of Vojtile and the Vatican on the breaking of the former Yugoslavia. Of course, no one should have thought to ask them for such information. I'm going to use another example to point out that danger. The second example was recently, a year ago, when Carla del Ponte, after six months of secret negotiations with the secretary of state, informed the public that Ante Gotovina was hiding in Franciscan monasteries in Croatia. Of course, there was a harsh condemnation as she was allowed to say, the Vatican is not hiding anyone, especially war criminals, and then the answer came out that the Vatican is not obliged to co-operate with The Hague tribunal because it is not a state, so they are some times a state, and sometimes they are not a state. Some times they sign international contracts, sometimes they participate in international conferences, sometimes they don't participate. They used to have their Catholic action as a powerful political organization, and before that they banned Catholics from going to elections. Now they have a so-called. People's and demochrist parties. That poor Batic doesn't know what a democratic party means, to stick a name to, and here he swears he's a Orthodox. But, come on, we can do anything because we don't know, people don't know, they don't read books with us. When that dispute came up, that's when the Franciscans from Herzegovina and Dalmatia told Carly del Ponte that they were not hiding Gotovina, and she can carry out an inspection, so in the end she can look under those dresses to look for him. Carla del Ponte, deeply disappointed, said she regrets being a Catholic. Now let me not tell you what it's like to testify. They have a celibacy problem, they have a lot of problems, that's why the priestly order falls, they deprive the kids, the seminaries are shutting down, and I'm not talking anymore. They need Siberia, they need Serbia, and I'm taking an example of something that we can notice and see on a daily basis, an example of our SPC and those who are going towards a difficult attack against the SPC. First, those within the church for Lavrenti, who eight times kissed Papi John Paul the second, even led priests to Canada, and that ecumenical congregation in Assyria. There the Pope called not only representatives of churches, sects, but also of returners, for it is supposed for the Pope to build one faith for the whole world, one economy, one policy, one religion. It's the whole formula of globalism. Make sure you don't fit in, since in some of the statements I heard during the principle debate, I recognize the philosopher from the Shimanovac, the Mirko Djordjevic, the columnist "Today". That's exactly what he's in charge of. Of course, I recognize also in the activities of NGOs and these sects called B92, where SPC, priests, and even in our media are published statements by unnamed priests about some disputes that have nothing to do with world affairs. Take care, because everyone who does this and who helps destroy the SPC I have to call sectarians, regardless of the reminder and other things, because that's the only way in Serbian there is a word that can draw attention to something that destroys the soul of this people, and above all hits the morals and social values of the Republic of Serbia, morals and the social values of all citizens. Therefore, when you see in the amendments of the SRS that a church or traditional religious community is written, then recognize it in accordance with the amendment submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Keep in mind that some other improvisations are not being made because I can tell you, I am now going back to attitude 7, that this formulation as it is written protects the religious sects and something that comes to us from across the Atlantic, which is tasked with destroying the soul of a nation, because then these quasi-priests, which you will in some way admit is the very act of introducing a register to abuse what is written in all the variants of Article 8. Take note, for attitude 7 will also refer to these followers of that belief of Satanic moon, to these sorcery, to these exorcists of the devil and these others, for every desolation will be able to present itself as a priest. Now I return you to the beginning of today's debate when I mention that some don't know what the church is, they think it's a building. They do not know that there are religious sects and some other alleged religious organizations and allegedly religious communities, which do not have a church in a formal and legal sense. For some, it takes mere backwoods, some streets, some of it's nature, some of it's stone. Some reportedly use other objects, and some in every place can carry out their religion and perform worship. An example of this is some of the televisions that exist in us, which do worship, why don't you say so. The anti-straight personality that runs shows, for all of them, is a Happy Day, terra, oh, extraordinary, they say everything and everything. The Sandman show, you can hear such attacks on something that's normal in our country, it's bending, it's getting insane. You have certain sectarians in political parties, especially those financed by Thaci. They used to be on easy drugs, now they're on stronger drugs. You think it's funny. I know it's funny to you, but they're being offered on the Serbian market. They are offered either as a religious commitment or offered as a political commitment. Well, then, because of a dim understanding of how democracy should look, we can just turn around and say where the system of social values is. So the church isn't just a building, it should be remembered.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26010	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here you are, People's Messenger Milos Aligrudić, and the People's Messenger, George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26011	The amendment to Article 8 of this Act refers to the obligation of the priest to testify, as the amendment applies. However, I will read Section 7 as it reads in the original text, as the proposal proposed and what the proposal now looks like. The bill says: 'The priest can't be called upon to testify about the facts and circumstances he learned in the confession of the Code of Criminal Procedure certainly foresees that those persons who are priests and who perform the duty of confession may be freed of testimony in circumstances related to criminal proceedings and persons accused of criminal acts. It's obviously about those parts that society, and that's why it put them in the Criminal Code, thinks they deserve that kind of treatment, that they deserve the position of crime and those who do such crimes, of course, who are accused of such acts, are tried in criminal proceedings. This member of the law, who speaks of the priest’s being unable to bear witness to the facts and circumstances he learned during confession, acts beyond what is said in the Code of Criminal Procedure. This means practically that although the priest now has an obligation in a litigatory or administrative procedure to testify to all the circumstances he knows and must not refuse to testify, not a priest, but a person who has confessed to the priest is not protected from his right to say, to confess to the priest, and to keep what he has confessed to the priest a secret. This provision allows for this law. Therefore, one norm that acts in criminal proceedings is practically extended to all kinds of legal procedures, for all kinds of procedural rules in which testimony can be sought and definitely frees persons who perform the obligation to confess that what they have received and found out does not have to testify. It's the only meaning of this provision, its full and true goal. I think if logic is in criminal proceedings on one side, there's no reason for that logic to change when it comes to other procedural rules in our country, when it comes to administrative proceedings or civil litigation or out-of-party proceedings. That is why I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, because the formulation given in Article 8, Article 7, is quite good and solves this problem which otherwise exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26012	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26013	The solution proposed in Article 8 paragraph 7 is very good and no serious objections can be placed there. When it comes to procedures, especially criminal proceedings, it should be pointed out that there are two types of witnesses. Those who are free of testimony and those who are privileged, those who can testify, and the law allows them to refuse to testify. The priest enters the order of three professions in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which are the defender, the doctor and the priest, who have been released from the duty of testimony. So because of the nature of these professions and because of the trust that exists between believers and priests, clients and defenders, patients and doctors, they are freed to testify. The amendment significantly narrows down what the Code of Criminal Procedure gives. Namely, only one who is also a religious confessor is privileged here from all priests. Since a believer may have a priest within the parish, parish or other territorial organization of a particular religious community or church who is also a religious confessor and a priest who performs a certain service in the presence of believers, it is very important that any priestly person to whom a believer has confessed has a position of privileged person, or person who is freed of testimony. This amendment should not be accepted because it significantly narrows down the rights of the priest who gives him the Code of Criminal Procedure. So, any priest, not just one who is also a religious confessor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26014	I thank Mr. Mamuli. Mr. Matic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26015	Under this law, I have not appeared at all, and I will take this opportunity to commend the bill myself and to praise the fact that the Republic Government and Minister of Faith have had the strength to introduce order in this area, which has been in one of the last years, we can estimate, anarchistally almost dose arranged. But when it comes to amendments between MPs Mehe Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic, it is based on the fact that this amendment is submitted by atheists. The very meaning of faith lies in the sacred secret of confession. Please respect the fact that the meaning of Christianity is based on several sacred secrets, and among other things on sacred secret confessions. If we don't respect that fact, then it's completely pointless to edit this area. If we are missing the fact that it is necessary to preserve the sacred secret of confession as something that is the cornerstone of Christianity, in that sense it is unacceptable for the parliamentary majority to accept such proposals, because the introduction of such amendments in the bill itself, I think it devises the whole existence of the law. That is why, and hopefully all the other reasonable MPs, I will be against this amendment and I believe that the law itself, complete with several very good proposals, and I mean several very good amendments, will pass by a great majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26016	I thank Mr. Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, this amendment should certainly be rejected, because a member of the speech has clearly defined when a priest may be called to testify to the facts and circumstances he has learned in his confession. However, I was encouraged to say what Mr Bralic said. This is mainly about the right to testify and court proceedings, because very often in professions, such as the priest and the doctor, you have to refrain from testifying and when you are not asked to. Let's take one guess that happened in my life, and 42 years as a doctor, that a young woman committed suicide attempt. In confession or interview, she said she was doing it because the child she had with her husband wasn't his. You remain in the dilemma of whether you will testify, tell others, and then what you will do. Will you do moral harm to her or to her husband's moral damage? It is one dilemma that must be considered when defining individual members of this law. What Mr. Bralic said, take it one way or another, we'll always be in a dilemma whether we're right or wrong. There's something else I'd like to say for a second. It is mentioned here that one organization is referred to as a single name, which is in fact a term for canonical rules of worship in Christianity. Just because this organization is as described doesn't mean that we should think of it differently, because that name is also called the bombing of Yugoslavia as a merciful angel. My intensities in the speech in the morning were to essentially explain the name of what was being said by the honourable MP from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26018	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment is an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 9 of the amendment is Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26019	We ask that the first position in Article 9 be changed. Here, for the public to know what this member regulates. This article regulates legal capacity and religious communities. The government suggests that the 1st position reads: ''Churches and religious communities that are registered under this law have a legal personality. ''Three moments are very important, churches and religious communities, 'that's something that regulates Article 4. The draft law, by way of an act of registration, the application by the competent authority, gives rise to the legal personality under this law. Since we have submitted an amendment to Article 4, just to remind ourselves, this is the member who had the title of the Subjects of Corporate Religious Freedom, so it was later re-adjusted to the Subject of Religious Freedom, because this - corporate does not mean anything. Simply -- the church here is seen in this law as an expression of the collectiveity of some individuals. I think that's the wrong attitude. I'm surprised that churches and religious communities didn't ask to change the concept of it in law. Churches and religious communities do not view church and church organizations as a building facility and do not view them as an organisation of randomly found individuals. Now I don't want to get into something that's theological, because we're in the field of world affairs. We ask that Article 9 paragraph 1 reads: "The churches and the religious communities of Article 4 of this Law have the property of a legal person." There's really a question here, what does it mean to register the SPC, and I think it's offensive to think that someone needs someone to register. So, Minister, I know your concept, but I'm giving you my position, and I'm giving you the attitude I have on this issue. Now that you've opened this topic, then I have to tell you some things that are coming up later, where you're wrong again. When you're in the field of human rights and freedom, then to exercise some right and some freedom doesn't need a request for someone, but those rights and freedoms exist by the letter of the Constitution, and some by the act of birth, and you're looking for registration in some places, and somewhere for registration, and somewhere for a request. To return you to what we talked about yesterday, you simply saw the church as a political party in terms of the possibility of regulating their legal position in accordance with the Constitution and respecting individual rights. We are absolutely in the field of human rights, the rights that belong to an individual. What black corporate collective rights are you talking about? So I'm telling you, you don't understand the church, you take it as a political organization, as a union organization, as a collectiveity that was created by a collection of individual believers, and that's absolutely the wrong thing. A theologically wrong thing to do when it comes to freedom of religion. That's not the point of this amendment in what I'm saying right now, that's what we said when we talked about Article 4. We asked for intervention in Article 4 to clearly specify these seven churches and religious communities. It's something that's been admitted. All this other stuff, I don't know what it could be. You can't compare a Serbian society with an American society, you can't, or a Dutch society. It's incomparable. When Reagan began to approach Voytila, great unrest arose in America, because there was some amendment to their constitution, which is very short and says that the church was separated from the state, and they attacked, only later realized that it was a coalition to break up the eastern block and break up Yugoslavia, so they calmed down, since Chicago's diet was one of the largest in the organization of the Roman Catholic churches. So, we recognize by law the property of a legal person to churches and religious organizations within the meaning of Article 4 of this Law, but in the sense of our amendment to which we seek intervention. This other thing can't have a legal personality. Why can't he? It can't be for one simple reason, 50 people find themselves in one place and say, we believe in stone, we believe in Maradona. Now how do believers who believe in Maradona, who played football well, now have to have the status of whether religious organizations, do anything, we don't get into your terminology, and she needs to get a legal personality? It can, under the Law of Citizens' Associations, but there's no faith there. It's not a religious field. He doesn't exist. Or these actors, Tom Cruz, and those belonging to those sects, Milan Panic, Gašo - one of Jehovah’s Witnesses. By that logic, all homosexuals can register a religious organization. If they file a report with you, I don't know how you'd turn them down. They believe in something. Where is God, where is religion, where is tradition? No, but they do, but your law allows. Now you can tell me I'm lying. Last time I told you, when you were talking about the mortgage law, he couldn't live. Last night, your TV explains that five months has nothing to do with that law. There was a law on a housing insurance corporation, and you said that the radicals were lying. Who got the loan? Nobody. That I don't order you the laws you've passed that can't be applied. You challenged everything: you're wrong, it's not true what you're talking about. You're being denied by life. If this law is passed as you push it, you will see within a short period of time who will be registered, legalized, official. Let the story go that they have some sects that aren't responsible for registering under this law. At first, I told you that if you want to prevent something, something that is immoral, which threatens life, freedom, human rights and citizens, and hides behind something that is supposed to be a religious feeling or freedom of religion, and has nothing to do with known religions, known religions, that is in the function of destroying this society and this state. This people, however pressured with problems, still has some faith, faith in God, faith in themselves, so they go back to church, and they get angry at church, so they calm down, and they call for glory, etc. Let's admit what's traditional, what exists, what lives. I may not like some religious community, but it's my personal right, but I can't argue with these people to believe it. But I have the right to raise my voice against religious sects that destroy society, which poison children. It has nothing to do with religion. In the west, religion is made of everything. There's a stone found. How did the Lady get found at Medjugorje? They needed money for the war. So the Mussolini before World War II -- the Italians went to worship some Madonna in France, he saw that the big money went there, sat down with Pia Twelfth, agreed, found that some Madonna and all the Italians had come and left the money there somewhere. Not to talk about Fatima, etc. It's within their faith, let them believe it, I can't deny it, there are believers, they spread across everything, they're supposed to exist here, there's believers, I don't get into their religious feelings, but how you make me feel the same way with Satanists, that I respect their religious feelings, that have some rituals that are unacceptable to the civilized world. Under the influence of these drugs, everyone's playing a movie today, and imagine a religion, and there's this hallucination, and he's seeing something, and now he's talking about it. As many as 60 people walk the globe and pretend to be popes. It's the information of the Roman Catholic Church. And she's got a problem with that, even though she's making sects. The evidence for this is ecumenical assemblies, ecumenical meetings, so for the last 15 years, the work of the World Church Federation. Minister, I hope you know that there is one appeal for us to step out of the ecumenical dialogue, because ecumenism in this space means subjugation, constraint and weakness of the SPC. If you're listening to both those bishops and those theologians who interpret everything that happens at these gatherings, where both the wizards are invited, and a whole series of sects, that SPC doesn't need it. I take my personal stand, he doesn't commit anyone. Like, except for one handful of people who are going to sell a child for a handful of dollars, and a family and everything to give up, I support all those in the SPC who don't want to call Benedict XVI and who oppose it. Jovan Pavle The second set his goal by 2000 to visit Serbia and Russia, and since his visits to Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia and before and Greece, not to tell you what the problems were. In Greece, only about the recognition of a new calendar, the Greek Orthodox Church almost fell apart. Make sure that certain provisions of this law, inter alia, and this provision of Article 9(1), where we say that legal personality is recognised by law, which means that in legal life he can be the bearer of rights and obligations. We like these attitudes that follow, which allow lower organisational forms within the church to possess their special accounts, etc., respecting the fact that the organisation structure of the SPC, what is the importance of the bishop, the diocese and their limited independence within the SPC. We know it's to be accepted. I think that by accepting the amendments to Article 9(1) and by accepting the amendments to Article 4, this law can become serious in this, in our opinion, very wrong concept. Do not worry too much about what someone from abroad is going to tell you, whether you are violating religious freedoms by not acknowledging the status, the highest observed, religious organizations to a troubled family, which is supposed to be a religious organization or a religious sect. No one's going to attack you for that. As for this Western thing, I am full of documents that clearly show that the EU is not thinking about the SCG, even considering Macedonia, BiH. They're not thinking about our reception at all. They're making some modality, some phases: first, second, third, and security, and open list, and this, and that. What they had almost on the Commission for European Integration, it was a memorial session. That's not gonna happen. Don't just disassociate the citizens and keep them informed, like, here's just to fill this out and we're in Europe tomorrow. There's nothing. No matter what we do, there's nothing out of it, a closed business. The integration process in Europe is closed. I'll tell you later why the Pope got angry with the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26020	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26021	The amendment to this article, to be exact, by reason given by Mr Krasic, brought close to two completely uncompromising concepts: the concept represented by the SRS and the one represented by the SDP. None of these two concepts are the concept of this law, and the fear expressed by the SRS and SDP, although completely differently motivated, is something that unites them. Out of fear, you have a completely different concept of the law. However, let's first look at what is the concept of this text we're discussing, not someone potential, someone virtual. What you are now approaching is the understanding of the SDP: that the church is separate from the state, and that because it is separated from the state, it is not necessary by law to regulate at all what are the rights of citizens belonging to public communities such as churches and religious communities. So their rights are regulated in the churches themselves and they, as citizens in public space, should not as a community have any rights. The second claim is the SRS: it is humiliating for the SPC to be registered and that, by the act of registration, it has obtained legal personality status, because the SPC was older than any existing state and any legal system, and that, in general, as any Orthodox church, it was not created as an earthly institution, it was not created on the legal system, but on the discovery. So the son of God came among the people, said something to them, part of the people understood it, and from that understanding was formed a community that lasted 2006. It is an unfounded fear that this law will introduce theocracy in Serbia. Here's why it's unfounded. Your initial assumption, Mr. Omerovic, is the premise that this law introduces a parallel legal system, if I understand you correctly. There's been a parallel legal system since there's been a church. The church has always had its inner order, its legal system, its logic, its typicals and canons and its documents that edit relations in that community. This legal system has always lived in the same form, in the horizons of different legal systems of states, from the time of persecution to the 313th year in secret, and from 313, when the Christian community was recognised, its legal order was recognised. The legal order of the Byzantine state and the legal order of the church were compatible. They didn't fight anymore. Both the legal order of medieval Serbia and the legal order of the SPC are not entirely identical, but they are very close. Dusan's code is not the same as the church constitution, nor is any Middle Ages law the same as the typical of a monastery, but these two legal systems did not crash. The legal system of the church also survived the medieval state, and the age of enlightenment and before that the Renaissance, and parliamentary democracy and monarchy, and the republic of the 19th century, and lived in parallel with the communist legal system in both Russia and Serbia and other countries, where it exists, and lives today. Everywhere and always implies it's a parallel system. It's amazing what you're asking, Mr. Omerovic, and so is colleague Nestorovic, who controls the system. That system has internal control mechanisms. No one ever managed to control him on the outside, not even in the age of the most powerful emperors; all the pretenses of controlling the inner order in the churches were ended by failure. The legal system has its own internal authority, self-control. He is directed so that he is controlled by whoever is at the head of the church, and at the head of the church is a Man. It's control of that order. This law does not introduce two parallel systems. He, Mr. Omerovic, only finds that these two legal systems exist and that they always exist and that there should be, and the law does not deal with it. The law deals with the next question - what are the rights of the citizens of Serbia, not the believers, but the bearers of faith, the citizens who have subjected themselves to this legal order, the church law, and who have dedicated their lives to the faith? Do these people who are bearers of faith, who accept canons and church order, have their civil rights? As an individual, does every student of religion or medress have any rights and does the church and the religious community as a public community have some real rights in society? What are these rights, what do they serve and how are they used? That's what this law does. It's really just that. He's not involved in any form of theocracy. The law refers to about 8,000 people in Serbia. Those 8,000 people who are bearers of faith, who bear faith, do they have rights; what are their rights? Is there a right for a student of theology to be touched by the state in boarding school or not? Is there a right for a student of Medresse in New Market to receive a child's allowance or does his Nana or mother have to come and ask if he can or can't? That's what the law does. He deals with the question of whether the priest has any rights and what his rights are in society. I would love to, and one of my colleagues mentioned this problem, and the faithful loved that this law prescribed that churches and religious communities must say how much the ceremony cost. In one version of the law, it stood. I gave it up for one simple reason. We give too little to the church, give too little to the priests to have the right to seek. That, by any chance, as in some normal countries, we pay the priests, that the Orthodox priest in Serbia gets paid as he gets in Catholic and Protestant Slovakia, we could tell that priest – don't charge the rituals, don't charge anything, you get paid, and that's all. If by chance a priest in Serbia got paid as in Romania, we could do it; if every parishioner in Serbia got two gross incomes from high school equipment, as it gets in Croatia, whose legal system today was said to be very bad, we could ask some of the priests. We don't give them anything, we can't ask for it. In Croatia, every parishioner, which is the lowest church unit, receives a monthly two gross salaries of high school equipment, which means one for the priest and one, since it is high, for two church girls. That's what this law is about. Is it about someone who has dedicated their lives to faith, does someone who creates, iconotypes, someone who sings in the church choir, who tries to combine original music with some modern trends in music, does he have the right to apply for donations? He's never had one before. We tell him - by law you are right, because it is a culture that is not narrowly confessional, it is not a culture that is only for you five thousand, it is a culture that belongs to this people. That's why you have the right to have your institutions touched. This is a law that tells the museum SPC and the museum, if it is in Novi Pazar – you have the right to receive money from the state register because you are performing an important cultural service. This law tells monks – you have the right to general health insurance, because it is heartless to live in monasteries and to ensure only one of you, you all go to his booklet, so his chart says he suffers from everything. What's wrong with that? Where's the theocracy? Where are some special rights given to the church?- I'm sorry. This is about people, about bearers of faith. Of course, Article 8 provides certain rights, natural rights that belong to priestly dignity. It is natural that the priest cannot be called upon to bear witness to the circumstances he learned during confession, for this right belongs to the dignity of his ministry. It simply cannot; just as someone is protected by keeping a state secret, the priest has the right to be protected by keeping a sacred secret or by any secret he keeps. It's a sign of his priestly dignity. By this law of the state, he tells the priest: we respect your dignity. He tells a student of religion and a student of theology: you have the same rights as other students and, of course, as far as I'm concerned, I tell them: your role in society, your role in humanizing relationships, in fostering solidarity, modesty, in developing co-operation with other people, in fostering self-sacrifice, self-sacrifice – is enormous and irreplaceable; your role in defending dignity is irreplaceable, your role in expanding the idea of freedom is important for this society. It's a message from this law. If you want to engage and help this society with your energy, your experiences, the state allows you with this law. If you don't want to, you don't have to because you have full autonomy. Autonomy, i.e. a parallel legal system, has been a default state for 2006, more specifically from 313 to today. When some people tell me that this law gives Serbia 200 years back, I can figure out exactly how many of them are returning Serbia back to their church -- in 311 years, and that means 1690, and I don't know how many years. They fear -- when the 313th year comes, when the church is recognised, when it is no longer marginalized, defamed, ghettoized, when it enters society and when we normally recognise people of faith -- that there will be an end to the world, constitutional shock and a turn in Serbia, that Serbia will become a theocratic state. They won't, because no state has ever become theocratic in this law. On the other hand, the other is afraid. Indeed, all these discussions are beneficial; I thank the MPs, above all, who have given amendments, for they have shown some fear. I have a lot of understanding for fear because for three years, sitting in these benches, except for the law on national and other holidays, before the election of every law, my hand felt a little scared because I was wondering, what will happen when this law comes into force, what will be the consequence. I don't have any dilemmas for this one. I understand the fear they're trying to radicalize to pass on to the citizens. But we must, gentlemen, still discuss some things seriously. Seriously, it's a question of who registered the sects and where the sects came from when there was no law. You say: This law will create sects, and you talk about Serbia being killed by sects. Where did the sects come from, does this law make them? No, gentlemen, it was the law of 1953 and 1977 and the Law on Citizens' Associations. I never used to say one, not only bad, but no critical remark at the expense of the people who were in my place before me. But, Mr. Radovanovic, you've been in this place longer than I have. Why didn't the Serbian Radical Party pass the law and ban all churches except these seven? Where's your law? Why didn't you close and break all those secret organizations you're talking about here today? Why didn't you -- not your ministry, I know it wasn't your ministry's jurisdiction, and you had all the ministries? Why didn't you do it? Mr. Krasic, this cult-related law has nothing to do with it and don't really convince me that this is a law that was wrongly set up and that this was supposed to be a law against false religious organizations. This is the law on rights, authentic churches and religious communities, not the law on false religious organizations, on false representation, on abuses of faith. These and such phenomena and processes are treated by criminal law and many other laws. Don't ask us now to pass legislation on banning sects, and we haven't provided any dignity to the SPC, which was both state and culture, and which for 500 years was a state factor: it passed on and preserved the memory of the people to a free state, and raised the people, and gave them spiritual strength to endure slavery and to re-create a free state. Now we're chasing some phantoms out there, and we're not in a position to make a deal and act normal to whoever we owe us. This law wants to establish this normal relationship, not to pursue phantoms. To make mistakes or to ban sects, it's best not to register anyone? Since this law will use sects, let's not even register the SPC, so let's continue to be in a position for your lawyers to interpret that the SPC is a physical and legal person; so let's continue to be in a position that when the diocese registers the car, it addresses the Ministry of Faith to get confirmation that the diocese exists and that it is a legal entity. We can't do this anymore. We need to establish order. We have to pay back first to whoever we owe. And after this law, of course, the law will come immediately on the return of property to churches and religious communities. So, gentlemen, the sects and the Parisian organizations you're talking about are being registered today. These laws will not register them. You yourself cite examples of some foreign politicians belonging to sects. Tell me the name of a man in Serbia who leads some destructive sect. You don't know. Why don't you know? Because you don't have a law to tell him: if you want to register, you deliver a name, last name, seat; you describe internal organisational units, internal structure; you expose the basics of learning and you give evidence of who funds you. So when we look at it all, maybe you'll be registered, and maybe you won't. But today you don't even know who they are or where they are because no one offered them any registration. And you, Mr. Krassic, don't have to be ironic about what I told you there when we smoked and drank coffee (smoking is a vice); don't be ironic when I tell you that this law is afraid of sects. They're scared. Why are they afraid? So they're fit by the law of 1953, they're fit by the 1977 law, they're even against some little new Protestant churches -- against which, as you can see, I don't have anything, I don't need to judge in dogmatic disputes. I've had enough of my Orthodox faith, and if anyone's left thirsty on that faith and his soul has asked for someone else, he can find it in another church, but if his soul is really thirsty for meaning and faith. So I have no prejudice towards them, but some of them have convinced me that the communist law was ideal. Why is the communist law ideal? First, because there is no one; the law does not recognise the Serbian Orthodox Church, admits no one. It all comes down to a common noun. Mr. Radovanovic quoted today a member of this law where they are all the same, and no one is anything; no one has names, no one has traditions, no one has done anything, no one is offered what they offer. It is simply a law that allowed churches the right to perform their worship and protect them from persecution. It has been said, "No one will touch you, close yourselves in your own port; you better enter the altar from the gate; do your work here; do not go out. That was the case at one time; that time was, of course, changing, there were co-operation and good examples, but that's not the point. It is said that every church and religious community must have its own name and name and that we did not in vain provide for one member of the law. Not only must it be known who represents the church and what its internal structure is, except for these traditional ones, and where it is funded and what its learning is - except for traditional ones, I repeat - but it is envisaged that anyone who comes forward to the public, who betrays the Watchtower, who holds the theological college, who has a humanitarian organization, must say who it is. It is an honor that Adri has done during the war by sending help to the people in Sarajevo, but Adra must say: Adra – a humanitarian organization of the Christian Adventivist Church belonging to the Union of Southeast Europe. It is a great honor for Baptists when they want to give the children gifts for the New Year, but they cannot say that Santa brought it, but they say – we are a Christian Baptist church who wants to do this and what is good to children through its humanitarian organization. Whoever receives this service has the right to say yes; he has the right to say no. Radio, publishing work, colleges, humanitarian activity – everyone will have to name their founder so that citizens know when someone offers them something, who it is. I think it is an unfounded fear that this law introduces theocracy, not introduces but provides rights for religious bearers in Serbia. Faith bearers are students of religious schools, priests of the lowest rank, priests of the highest rank and religious servants. They must have their rights. Faith bearers are cultural followers who work in museums, libraries, who will be established tomorrow by this law by scientific institutions that will study and protect and perfect the methods of protection of cultural goods. They're all bearers of faith. Do they have the right, gentlemen, comrades, from Social Democracy, whether they have civil rights or not? You gentlemen and the Radical brothers, when you talk about sects, don't slaughter a calf for a kilo of meat. Don't ask us not to pass a law that will allow for the rights of these eight thousand people who perform a very important social function, who perfect our morals, where they come for comfort, who help us in trouble, whom people turn when they lose all their orientations, ideological and historical, who from their experience gathered in churches seek to open our paths, to feed our souls. Don't ask for some of your actual or imaginary phantom organizations out there to flush these eight thousand people down the water. Secondly, I apologize only to my colleague Radovanovic, it is not correct to ask the Democratic Party of Serbia and today the Government to pass a law by which they will ban everything but traditional ones, and you who have been on a much more favourable occasion to do so have not passed such a law. You were in a more favourable position by completely ignoring Serbia's European orientation. Today's government doesn't ignore, it has to be negotiated, and it won't enter into the law of the provisions it discriminates against. He cannot enter into the law a provision that worship can only be done by a Serbian citizen when we know that in Serbia other than the SPC and the Islamic community all religious communities and churches have their supreme seats in other countries and that bishops, priests, come from other countries to worship. How can we forbid them? We can't ban it, there's no reason to ban it. There is reason to be in good relations with all churches because they connect us with Scandinavian countries, with Western Europe. We have no reason to shut ourselves down as a society and say, "We only have SPC and it's enough for us." It is not enough for us; and even if it is enough for us, we have citizens, 30% of citizens who belong to other religions and other communities. These citizens are constructive citizens of this country. This is a law that wants to show good faith to everyone, this is a law that the state offers to cooperate with everyone. This is the law that the state is trying to correct the mistake of ignoring the church and the religious communities, to give them identity, subjectivity, and then, God of health, to bring the law to Vidovdan and bring back everyone's taken property. Because the seized property of the church is not the same as the taken-off factory. It's not a physical property. That was public good, that was good in the service of all people. It was no private good, and therefore it should return to the churches: for the churches have no other property to which the people gave it. By returning that property to the churches, we return it to the people. This is a simple law, very simple with all the indiscretions, with all the possible stylish horns. This is one very simple law, like all states have. This is the law we need because we're the only one who doesn't have it. We cannot now pronounce ourselves by not bringing a new constitution, because the existing Constitution allows it. The earlier constitutions did not allow this law. The 1990 constitution requires this law, not only to enable it. This law was late. It should have been brought a long time ago. There will be no adverse consequences of the application of this law, there will only be very beneficial consequences. On the one hand, we will correct what offends us, what we feel like pain – this injustice and discrimination that people are exposed to by believing people. Because, I have no doubt, if Mrs. Nestorovic had been a minister of faith for me, she would have noticed the same day that something was wrong and tried to protect those people. It's not about someone's whim. So we're correcting one injustice. At the same time, we provide space for traditional churches and religious communities and all others who have cultural, spiritual, educational potential to participate in the transformation of society, in its humanization, in building a harmonising society, in harmonising social relations. That's what we do with this law. On the other hand, this law introduces the order that turned the law from 1953 into chaos. We want a law that introduces justice and order. We did not make the law according to anyone's fears – no radical fears of the sect, no fears of the church. We didn't satisfy anyone's wishes, but we settled justice with this law. Everyone's got what's rightfully theirs. The state made a very fair offer to churches and religious communities. And churches and religious communities, no matter how we think about how the state and the church are separated, there are state partners everywhere in social affairs. This is a law that recognizes a new partner who respects him and invites him to cooperate. He doesn't call on him to take over the state government, who would agree to give power, but to invite him to help, to cooperate. It does not invite any sects to register because they are already registered and exist, but invites them to legitize; if they exist to say who they are, who founded them, when they are founded, where they live, how many there are, what kind of internal organization, what kind of learning, and, very important, and this will come with the law on NGOs – how they finance themselves. It's natural to know. So let's replace fear with caution. Caution is necessary before this law, I know it. But caution should not grow into paranoia and should not be brought down into politically incorrect interpretation of the very text of the law. It is the easiest, best, simple and clear provisions to read as they are written. There is nothing to load, read, read, and enter their projections – either fears, or hopes – into something that is completely simple and completely ordinary. This is the simplest law you've had to consider. I said yesterday at the beginning of the debate, this kind of law is rare, and you are the fifth assembly meeting in the history of modern Serbia that was called to be held accountable and secure under this law. They are not often brought, they are rarely brought; and not all MPs are fortunate to say that they participated in the adoption of such a law. That is why it is necessary to be responsible and correct to the text. In doing so, I have no right to prevent any interpretation. I have the right to say that the talks so far have been a good part of the talks not on the text of the law, but on the social environment in Serbia and the religious structure of Serbia. This law, however, stabilizes the religious structure. But how you live and what you do in a church, what some pop did, or hoja, or rabbi, so whether he should enjoy rights or not – that's not what we can do. We're dealing with principles. Here only principles are exposed, nothing else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26022	After an exhaustive explanation by the minister, MP Zoran Krasic called for the replica, please. After Zoran Krasic, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic called for the replica. Mr. Markovic, you do business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26023	Mr. Obradovic, 32 minutes was a response to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26024	Mr. Krasic, this time will not enter your time for replication, according to the Rules of Procedure for the Proposer's Representative, a member of the Government, there are no restrictions on time. You know that, of course, as an exceptional knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, I've taken up your time for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26025	Mr. Obradic, you're the ones in that place, so you didn't understand me. I just realized: 32 minutes took a response from the government's representatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26026	Whether I'm sad or not, it has nothing to do with what it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26027	Can I finish my sentence without you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26028	Please don't flaunt with the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26029	The most basic order is when someone finishes a sentence, if you have something to say, but not in half a sentence. Hang in there, you're sad, you're new, you need to get to know that Rules of Procedure first. So 32 minutes lasted the government's response to the SRS amendment concerning... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26030	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Krasic to explain the reasons for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26031	Do you mind? Okay. Of course, there was no mention of the amendment within 32 minutes. Fears were mentioned. I'm not afraid of you from the DSS or your government. Okay, can we do it now? [[Sagar.]] People don't need to be afraid, because you're traditionally uninformed. But the people know a saying: whom the serpent burns, he is afraid of the lizard. It is an interesting thing that during the same period of time you used the right to respond as when Vlahović, Djelic, Pitic, that Milosavljevic, Natasa Micic, all who are now a fat opposition, the fat ladovina. Usually it moves somewhere from fifteen to six, counting then it's prime time. I was very happy about what you said from this pay phone for 32 minutes. People remember fears, people remember that the Social Democratic Party is afraid that you are introducing a theocratic state. Don't be afraid, there's nothing from the theocratic state, it'll be sectarian. She's a sectarian by her name. It's all parched. The G17 sect, the Wolf sect, the DSS sect, it's all sects. The departments are sectarian. Now that UBPOK is under his control, the Wolf is holding that General Inspectorate, etc. Let's move on. You said the SRS advocated that SPC be a physical and legal person. Who did you hear that from? You'll read the stenogram, it says very well what you're saying. You say a lot of things, and you end up denying it. You're referring to some law of 1953. I was born in 1956 and no man was born before 1953. You call yourself, and then you say, Mr. Radovanovic was a minister, which didn't shut down the sects, so then you couldn't shut down the sects either. First you accuse him of not shutting down the sects. And then Mr. Radovanovic couldn't shut down the sects. I don't know, I find that process of judgment problematic for you. You're talking about getting some property back, and this isn't even touching the return of property.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26032	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26033	Please, Mr. Obradic, I expect you'll be making a period of disquieting that wouldn't allow the Assembly to work on regular terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26034	Who's question?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26035	You've been warning some, Mr. Beard, it wasn't me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26036	It's all calculated, your replica time is three minutes, now expires for five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26037	I know, but you were the one who warned, Mr. Beard, it wasn't me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26038	I've included it all in this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26039	Okay, there's no problem. I've got to take care of it, 'cause 3,000 are shoes, I don't have anything to do with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26040	According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr. Markovic. You answered, Mrs. Nestorovic, for the replica. First according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, then Mr. Aligrudic. This is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26041	If the minister does not know his obligations, then the chairman should show him how to behave in the National Assembly. This is our home, our place of work, the minister is here to try to explain the legislative project he proposes, and the previous exhibition of 30 minutes to the minister and this exhibition has now served much more for such subtle insult to MPs than for the interpretation of the legal project. Therefore, Mr. Minister, many legislative projects have been done here and processed and adopted, or not adopted, without ministers sitting there. If you're gonna sit or not, it's not just your problem. Secondly, you mixed up a minister from your coalition at the federal level when he said to that Englishman, please don't mix frogs and grandmothers in English like that. I was learning French...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26042	Please don't throw away the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26043	Now I'm going to read you, we dont mix frigs and grandmothers...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26044	Please, allow the speaker the opportunity to expose...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26045	So, please take this time away from me, this indifference to calm down. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no amendment to the SRS, no letter, no comma against the right of traditional churches, no comma against the right of religious communities. But the bottom line is that you want religious sects to turn into religious communities and traditional churches. Therefore, Minister, the moment you register them, they will have absolute rights like both SPC and all other churches. Minister, don't throw me out of place. You're not the minister, and when you do, I'll talk to you like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26046	Please allow conditions....
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26047	Don't throw me out of the place, let me finish, because this chairman here is making time and watching, in three minutes and one second he'll say, Mr. Markovic, please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26048	Mr. Markovic, you'll be compensated in time, don't worry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26049	As soon as I'm done, I'll leave this booth. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments to the SRS have just tried to fix this otherwise bad legal project, not to let something that's going on somewhere in that Europe and in that West that you're trying to do, and there's a sect calling for you to be an official church here. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26050	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26051	Article 104 insults the dignity of this home by Mr Krasic. I can't believe we had a controversy two hours ago on whether we should be offended when we talk about the bill and the amendments that are submitted here, and then I said that we were talking about these amendments, trying to defend the text of the law by hearing the arguments and explanations for the amendments that are submitted, which we think are good. It's all the subject matter here. The minister, of course, has the right to discuss the law indefinitely whenever he wants and at what time he wants. That doesn't mean that you can, Mr. Krasic, repeat the accusation that, I think, two hours ago, we agreed with Mr. Radovanovic that my mistake was perception, that the DSS was sect. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Yes. ) Please, if you have now repeated this and claim that this is the position of the SRS... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: My position. ....................................................................................................... I will, of course, ask that I be established by asking that a stenogram of what you have said be taken out and, of course, that in that sense I do not advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure towards the Chairman, but towards you. You're the one who broke the Rules of Procedure, as you can call your colleagues sectarians, that's not right. None of us have ever in the discussion, nor the ministers nor the DSS MPs have ever called any of you by such a name. That's really not right. I would ask, if the chairman could give a break of 10 minutes, to take out the stenogram and look at exactly what you said, and then, of course, I would report, when these business reasons are exhausted, on the subject of Mr Krasic's amendment, as is the order of the reported ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26052	In order to return to the debate on amendments and to make this debate worthy of this home, I am giving a break of 10 minutes, as referred to in Article 111. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and I ask you to carry out all consultations at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26053	We can keep working. The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, a replica of the presentation of Minister Radulovic, and a National MP Radovanovic, also a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26054	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, you have just had one longer presentation that is in no way different from the previous two longer exhibitions you have had here, and it was not about the essence of the amendment, it was about one principle story. Again, I must repeat my deep confidence, since you have once again convinced me by your exposure to this, that you do not represent the ministry here, namely the state itself, namely all citizens, in the way I believe you should do the job. I must say that I fully agree with Mr Krasic and the people of the SRS in one thing, although we are obviously performing here from completely different positions for many things, but in one thing I agree: this law has completely missed matter, this law deals with things that are not to be dealt with. He should ensure that every citizen has the right to believe in what he wants and that he is in no way threatened by the state by any individual who would make it impossible for him. So trusting anyone else doesn't endanger his right to believe in something else. It's the only thing this law has to deal with. We have been brought into an entirely unpleasant position by this bill, given that this is also a lay assembly and that many of us don't even know church canons, they don't know many of the things that you've imposed upon us to know about this law. So we're dealing with something here that we're not invited to, we're dealing with internal arrangements of churches, come on, SPC, but imagine some other churches. I really don't have any interest or obligation to know things that this law just makes me talk about, and I can't do it in a good way. You're dealing with a matter that shouldn't be subject to this law at all. As for the endangered rights you spoke of, those that represent the church today, I must again tell you that, as a Social Democrats, above all, I advocate equality and equal opportunities for all citizens, regardless of what their profession is, regardless of what they believe. Simple, one general principle of equal opportunities for all. I can't help but think that in the way you've defined some things here, you've consciously or unconsciously tried or tried, and you'll succeed, most likely, by the power of the majority you have, to create a privileged caste. I really think it's a privileged caste, because many things that don't apply to other citizens, many benefits that won't be possible for the consumption of other citizens, you give people just because they're priests. For example, you give the opportunity to establish universities, schools, preschools and give the possibility that anyone who is a member of these church educational institutions, for example, will receive assistance in the form of scholarships. We've only got every sixth student on the budget. It can't be that unselective either. If you've already gotten into it, there must be certain conditions under which someone can get some material gain from the budget. I am also, as a believer, deeply convinced that those who represent the church, above all my church, must share the fate of citizens at a certain historical moment. I also believe that doctors today, to the extreme limits, are underestimated, that the job of teachers, in terms of material compensation, is also underestimated. But if, at this point, it's hard for us as a society, if we can't get out of the budget anymore, then I don't see any reason why anyone else, just because he's in business, and being a priest is also one kind of business, especially if you intend to give them salaries and various other budget reliefs, we all as citizens have to be in an equal position in this society. In that sense, I think you've brought a certain group of people here into a privileged position. I know that many priests do not show the kind of solidarity they should show to their colleagues. There are very poor priests, but there are also priests who ride in jeeps, who live in very comfortable apartments, which even, as one case in Šapac, build five-story buildings. Will they be released from VAT tomorrow for the income they get from it? It's troublesome stuff. That's why I'm saying that it should be arranged by other laws, budget laws and other laws that regulate where the money from the budget will go, not this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26055	National MP Milovan Radovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26056	Mr. Minister, with all due respect and respect for your function and you personally, as a man who knows this area and this matter, we saw it yesterday and today in this assembly, in this room, however, the concept differs between what you stand for here in the performance of the speaker and what it says in the Bill of Churches and Religious Communities, on the one hand, in relation to the concept of SRS MPs and their view of what should be in this bill. You can see that there is fear in the SRS of the operation of totalitarian, destructive, social religious sects, guru of movement, psychoorganization, commercial cults. These are all, to call them one word, organizations that can cause devastating consequences for a person's personality, for a family, for a society and for a state at all. It's not our paranoia, as you said at the pay phone, that we might be hallucinating out of fear of that happening. It's not our prevention against some phenomena that are far from us. I've already listed them today, and I know that you have them at the Ministry of Faith, what do all the traditional churches and religious communities, these seven that we have listed in the SRS, say about these problematic religious sects in Serbia, what do the medical services say? There are countless data in VMA, there are in the social service, in the police service, in homicides, suicides, financial frauds, where the specialty of scientology is present in our fields. It has completely mastered Albania's public finances. They aim to mount the financial system of every state, where they usually penetrate, where they find people to bring them into that structure of public life. The Association of Citizens has documentation on guided social records and on average receives about 102 victims a year, 150 talks, which is 500 families. There are a number of incurable cases among them, completely psycho-emotional in corrupt personalities. Is our fear paranoid saying that in Milan in 1997 twenty-nine scientologists were convicted of creating a criminal society and that I do not list everything, that scientology in Greece was banned in 1997, that there was no recognition of scientology or religious or humanitarian status in the UK. Did we have paranoia, someone mentioned one case, after two cases of killing soldiers in Capac and Vranj, not to mention details, I have them written down by soldiers who belonged to religious sects, and that satanic religious sect? Did paranoia, are we hallucinating, killed by militia Satanists, newspapers, March 30, 2006? It's our fear, Mr. Kojcic, it's not paranoia. That's our fear. The next day, if the competent state authority registers a religious organization through registration in such a way as to enable them to act in a religious manner that is perfectly fine, what is behind it? What are they actually doing? Let me just say about the part of Mr. Minister's performance regarding the law on religious communities at the time when we of the SRS were in the Republic Government. That was the time from 24 March 1998 to 24 October 2000. In 1998 we made a draft law on religious communities, here it is in my hand, look. This bill dates back to June 1998. The first year we came to power. So in 1999, you know, the bombing, the rebuilding of the country after that, we had no intention, but we didn't have enough intention of our then coalition partners to pass this law. They're your coalition partners now, they had no understanding of this. And one more thing, it took you two and a half years, I'm not saying that matter is so harmless, it's sensitive, agile matter, but it took you two and a half years to give a bill on churches and religious communities in this assembly for consideration and adoption, and we've had a draft since the first year of government in the Republic government, but unfortunately we haven't let it into the procedure and adopted it eventually in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26057	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26058	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I simply don't know whether to worry or look forward to one of these sublime topics causing this kind of discussion, this much polarization. After all, I think maybe you can even see it from an optimistic perspective. Maybe it's a good thing, maybe it's because most people are worried about this aspect of our social life, but that's why I'm going to try to make a contribution to channeling the discussion itself. If you'll excuse me, I'm not looking from any special party angles, but I'm looking at it universally, which is to remind ourselves once again of the very being of the church. The church is, among other things, the organization from which the first thoughts or proto-ideals came about about what human rights are and what human freedoms are. The church first institutionalized freedom as a universal rule in humanity. Not to remind you now of the great names that once said there was only one soprano or despot, or ruler, and the others were unfree. It's only in the church's lap that there's the idea that everyone's free, that they're all equal. Should I remind you that this great idea will give rise to ideas about the natural rights of man and citizen, as it is with Russo, that all people are born free and equal? Should I remind myself, too, that at one point the church was also an educational institution, that the church had produced literacy, it was the forensic duties and missions of the church in the history of this people. The church was also a social institution. The first hospitals were built around the monastery, etc. Of course, however, it is good that society was secularized. We live in a secular society, this is a secular state, and it's been since 200 years, and even the secularization of the state has inspired the church to separate itself from the state. In her own foundation, the church ran away from exercising world power. And there was this: Emperor of the Emperor, God of God, raised even to the maximum level. What is the function of the church today is spirituality, a quest for meaning. Gentlemen, as not all people deal with art, not everyone in Serbia is interested in the existence of the opera, so there is a discussion on how to make an opera anyway, to allocate funds from the budget, that Serbia has one opera, whether at the mouth is in the Republic Square. It is that the church is focused on a serious social need, which is spirituality, a quest for meaning. Just so it doesn't happen that 50 percent of the population, as in some countries, needs to use psycho-pharmacology to get on their feet in the mornings and into some working regime. Here in the bill of this law in no way, Mr. Radovanovic, leaves no room for what you have spoken about as to the sect. This is about setting up in public space the role and position of the church, and not in the state, the state has nothing to do with it. So, in public space, where there really is a church, the presence of a church and the need for a church as such. But there's one problem, where I'm asking you to try to feel the momentum of one time, which I thought was behind us. It is that two percent of people simply do not care about church, who do not believe in God, try to impose their vision and their view of the world for 98 percent of people who believe in God.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26059	Please, Mr Kojcic, and other MPs when they advertise the Rules of Procedure at the very beginning to indicate exactly what provisions of the Rules of Procedure they mean. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? National MP Milos Aligrudic, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26060	So, amendment to Article 9. Zoran Krasic, who suggests that attitude 1 be changed and read: "The churches and religious communities of Article 4 of this law have a legal personality". It is of course that this amendment is a fully consistent amendment to Article 4 which has been submitted by the SRS when it comes to the definition of Article 4 and the guidance of subjects of religious freedoms. Of course, when I called in to say something about the amendment itself to Article 4, so since it's close to that, since it calls for that member, that's why I've called this opportunity. So, what's the point of Article 9 as proposed, since that's the essence and I'm trying to defend the proposal. Article 9(1) states: ''Churches and religious communities registered under this law have legal personality. ''The amendment calls for Article 4 of this Law, where there is an emulation of traditional churches and religious communities, as proposed by the SRS, and I assume that this amendment does not refer to the bill to pass as proposed, but assuming that the SRS amendment to Article 4. That's gotta make sense. Then he says that the churches and religious communities of that member have a legal personality. What would destroy the concept given here is that there is no registration as the basis for the recognition of the entity in terms of the legal person, and the interpretation given when the proposal is read as given. This is not a dry interpretation, formal legal interpretation at the moment of recognition of the properties, whether he is an ipso facto by the act of being a registration, it is understood that registration must be, but that it potentials another type of message the minister spoke about during the principle debate, which is that not all those who consider themselves to be religious communities to be registered. That is exactly the opposite message to what was heard today on several occasions. Why? Because, I repeat and repeat to the unconscious if it is necessary tonight, Articles 3 and 2 of this law define the protection facilities in terms of human rights which this law recognises and particularly protects, recognising them from documents, first of all from the Constitution of our country, the Small Charter that follows the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as from international documents which this country has ratified and which are part of its internal rights, including other international agreements which in some way bind us here, and concerning the protection of human rights and freedoms. Therefore, Article 22 of this Law answers all these questions, he speaks about registration and when he speaks about registration he gives the right, because it must always be so, to the state body, the ministry that will run the register, to assess whether he will allow the registration of the person asking for it. Anyone can get into the register, anyone who comes to mind, but not everyone gets the right to sign up. He can't get the right to register someone who claims to be satanic and has the habit of occasionally killing someone, and that's how it works in his program, so that's how we're gonna legalize Satanists here because occasionally, there's people who wouldn't, but it's in their program. So it's just amazing how they replace the thesis here. So I repeat in the law it writes well, in Article 3 paragraph 2: 'Religious freedom must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national and racial intolerance. 'That's the law, that's what it says in Article 3(2). The authority making the registration decision must comply with these rules. You can see that all the other legal rules that we write in the state are never so detailed and precise that they don't allow certain arbitration of the organs. When we have a private problem with understanding whether or not a right belongs to us, the final word gives the court an interpretation of the law. Well, nowhere up to the small intestines and the details of how all the judge has to do to make a decision, he has the right to interpret the law because it's legally given to him by the Constitution of this state. Therefore, this law clearly gives certain powers to the Ministry in respect of registration, and when it stands out here in Article 9, so I think it's a lack of understanding of the proposal. So I'm saying more by explaining the proposal than by criticizing the amendment itself. The amendment is consistent with what has been submitted as an amendment to Article 4 as regards the SRS, it is not disputed. So I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about what was attacked by the amendment, which is Article 9(1). So, what's the point of that provision? To make a difference, to separate what is capable of registering in this country and what, as able to register, can be an object of respect for this law, and what these conditions cannot meet. Someone can tell me formally that it might be unclean, maybe even excessive, maybe it shouldn't even stand, maybe it's implied, but it's his purpose and it's his meaning. Therefore, in this context, and in order to be consistent with myself in relation to what I was saying when it comes to Article 4 of this Law, when it comes to the listing of religious communities, then in that sense I do not think that this amendment should therefore be accepted, as we had the view that no amendment to Article 4 of this Law should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26061	Replica, Zoran Krasic. You mentioned him in the discussion, now we'll hear the reason. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26062	I answered the line, first, because Mr. Aligrudić mentioned me several times during his speech. And, secondly, he commented on my amendment - what I didn't propose. Now let me just get you back to it. During the interpretation of my amendment, I never once referred to Article 3(2). The bill of law, so I haven't called once. But now I have to distract the public who's watching this transmission. During today's debate, when we pointed out that this law should regulate how religious freedoms of citizens are achieved, we are told here that this is being arranged, but that some other issues are being settled. So now I'd like to read what's the point of this law, which means why this law is passed. The government says this: the objectives of this law are (first objectives in the plural are not right, the goal is one, but good: 1. to establish democratic and free co-operation relations between the state and the church (Cooperational relations between the state and the church). It's not Byzantine sinfonier, you know. ; 2. To establish a place and guarantee the rights of churches and religious communities in society (So that is the collectiveity. 3. to contribute to the harmonisation of our legal system with the EU legal system in the area of the achievement of religious freedoms and rights. Here it is, only at the end of the third goal came something, religious freedom and some rights. So, the concept is missing. We don't have a constitutional basis for something like this. In the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you criticised was unnatural and bad, and now you begin to praise him for the fact that in the work that regulated the declaration of human rights, from members 20th to 50th and someone, fully included all the standards prescribed by the European Charter of Human Rights. After all, it was done by Ratko Markovic, and he is a man and the greatest expert in this area. So the subject of this law and what it's about is not a way of achieving religious freedom, but, I don't know, it's not clear to me at all, a democratic and free co-operation relationship between a state and a church. What are these democratic relations between the state and the church? I have one variant of how the government sees it, what democratic relations are. Of course, I didn't just talk about my amendment, because I'm using the legitimate right that when one of the MPs of the government abuses a pay phone, I always abuse it, my God, by making sure I'm not being punished like Nemanja, because I have big kids, and they keep pulling shoes and I have no intention of giving the congregation shoes. She only took Natasa Micic from me once and went into the past. So, the amendment refers to the status of the legal person of the church and the religious community, and, yes, it does connect with Article 4. It's a bill, but it's just our concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26063	According to the Rules of Procedure Milos Aligrudic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26064	According to Article 104, if we're going to insult ourselves, you know. You know the point here? What is the point of the discussion of the amendments, of their essence, if whenever we hear someone else have any other argument, which is particularly resting on a completely different argument that has been heard, where this argument has not even slowed down, we find that as a reason for the replication of the Rules of Procedure. No, and so it can be done, it's no problem, but believe me that we're not going to participate in this way, I just took it to say, for one simple reason which means now, when I'm discussing as a representative of the ruling coalition and I want to point out why I don't like the amendment, just tell me that I don't have the right to do it, then just by saying it, however I choose to say it, it automatically means the right to reply to whoever submitted the amendment. Just because I read that amendment of his. Well, I guess I have to tell you about the pay phone I'm talking about, it wasn't the amendment that fell out of the sky, it was someone who filed it, so he has a name and a last name. Well, it's not a roll call, it's the name he called himself for making the amendment. If I were to submit an amendment, they'd write my name and last name, so I wouldn't jump out of the place every time someone was apostrophe from a pay phone or from the chairman's seat if I had submitted the amendment. That would mean the next time the president reads that someone submitted the amendment, he has the right to raise his hand immediately, to jump up and say, wait, my name has been mentioned. I didn't misread what you were saying, I even deliberately pointed out that I didn't want to go in, I accepted as being completely overly and normally that there was a consistency between the amendments that were submitted, but I, not wanting to vote for that amendment, tried to explain what it really says in Article 9(1) as I saw it. Maybe I don't see it well, maybe you see it great, maybe you see it in the best possible way, maybe we don't know anything, all that's possible, but how can it be a reason for replication? I don't get that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26065	According to the amendment, Milica Vojic-Markovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26066	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on this amendment, I will start with the law of 1953, where registration, if it was at all the registration of a church or a political organisation, was obtained by mere reporting. So, without any information, no generals, you don't know who he is, what he is, where he comes from, or what he does. In Article 20. The bill states what is mandatory in the application submitted by each religious organisation interested in entering the register and becoming a legal person. Here we have the name of a religious organization, address and seat, name, last name and attribute of a person authorized to represent and represent the organization. In addition to this application, they should deliver a decision on the establishment of a religious organisation, with names and last names, identification documents and signatures of founders of at least 0.001% of full-time citizens, etc. In addition, they should deliver a statute or other document of a religious organisation containing: a description of the organisational structure, management, rights and obligations of members, a way of establishing and shutting down an organisational unit, a list of organisational units with a legal personality and other data of importance for a religious organisation. In addition, it should provide a presentation of the basics of religious learning, religious rituals, religious goals, and basic activities of the religious organization, and data on permanent sources of income from a religious organization. Doesn't it seem to you that there's a complete record here of what this organization or church is doing, what it does, who it represents and everything else. Based on this, it can either be registered or not registered. Not to be registered will be particularly affected by Article 3 in the bill that says - Religious freedom must not be used by jeopardising the right to life, the right to health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity, the right to property, or by causing and encouraging religious, national or racial intolerance. What do I mean? I want to be very clear, reading, sir, and if it isn't, I'll explain. What I'm saying is that all these fears you're trying to present to us as very important and you're trying to tie up this law on the legalization of sects in this country, because here you have a serious attempt to finally put in order all those who apply, you have full insight into what they're dealing with and you can run the state in a way that you don't endanger rights and freedom of religion of some others.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26067	The replica was reported by Zoran Krasic, misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26068	Mr. Obradovic, I was hoping you'd come as prepared chairman, which means you know which member you're talking about and what amendment. I must draw your attention, in Article 9(1), to which I have submitted the amendment, there is no call for Article 3rd or Article 20. Please don't waste your weapons on Article 20 because we've submitted the amendment there, and then we'll talk about it. Don't honor the law of 1953. I'm 1956. In the SRS, as far as I can see, these MPs sitting here, Moma is the oldest, 1954. When we get to Article 17. The bill, and Mr. Radovanovic has submitted an amendment to that article, then we will discuss the rules of 53 and 77. You're either quoting or uncritically going out, and every story that comes up, that's your tactics, your style, I don't mind the style figures in the National Assembly, but I'm just distracting you, if that's how you think you can mislead the viewers that the SRS stands for the rule of 53 and 77, then you're making a really big mistake, because we haven't come to that point yet. When we come to this topic, I hope that many things will be clearer and that you will then support the position of the SRS, a critical attitude relating to either the silent or the direct enabling of sects to perform. I'm not in a position to let them. I'm known as someone who fights those sects because I can't understand that they should exist, like I can't understand a man who, like, joins the GSS. Well, 250 parties exist, and we're not going to say 250 religious communities are needed. The problem with your concept, I read it, is in the wrong goals. You have come halfway from the beginning to prove that you consider the church as a building, as Cirkovic said, and some consider it a union organisation and some as a political organisation. I don't mind your understanding, but leave it for some other regulation. This regulation should be a law of freedom of religion. You see how we've masterly brought you into a situation, how we go to which member opens the topic, and it turns out you've missed the law, you've absolutely missed the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26069	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26070	Article 9 under the heading - The legal capacity of churches and religious communities, as the name says, defines this topic and, among other things, it is said that organisational units and institutions of churches and religious communities can acquire the property of a legal person in accordance with the autonomous regulations of the church, or religious community, and based on the application of the church and the religious community. Paragraph 3 goes on to say - churches and religious communities can change and abolish their organisational units, bodies, and institutions that have legal personality. I think that this is also one member who is more of an argument for my claim that I have made here several times, and that is the claim that you are essentially creating a certain privilege. Whether the organisational units of the church will acquire the property of a legal person or not they cannot be the applicable autonomous church regulations. I don't know how to explain it, that possibility of someone autonomously declaring themselves a legal person. This can only be done on the basis of relevant state rules. This would mean that the church can decide who and under what conditions will have the property of a legal entity, e.g. some other society, a commercial or an institution, can't do that because they, like its parts, acquire the property of a legal person by law alone, and never by autonomous regulations. As I have already said, it is about indulging in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as a state and on constitutional grounds, Article 72. The Constitution speaks of it. Therefore, such a proposed solution is unconstitutional. I understand that the church makes a decision that its part or organisational unit should acquire legal personality and then the competent state authority does so on the basis of that autonomous church decision if the conditions are met, but that the church itself grants that status, I absolutely cannot understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26071	MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26072	Mr. Angelkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it could be said here that everyone could be right, but they're not. Let's say, if one diocese or diocese, or mixed, or depends on who is organized, does not have the right to be an organisational part with the rank of a legal person, then it enters into some other questions in the church itself or the religious community itself or in the religious organization itself. Because, for example, one bishop or bishop, or one mixed elder, is autonomous, as you know, in relation to his parent organization or church to the extent to which he is fully an elder of all things, namely, formal things and money in the field of the diocese. I don't think this is a problem with large religious communities, where this has formally existed since there's such churches and such religious communities. That could be a problem, I agree with the applicants of the amendments, with small religious organisations, which will now be registered under this law, and then they will be able to say, I don't know in every formal district, region or where, their organisation will have legal personality status. I remind you, and I apologize, someone might interpret this inappropriate comparison, but the Law on political parties is not allowed for the legal person to have any organisational integrity except for the party that has the political programme, logo, stamp, etc. It's not a good comparison, and I know I can handle criticism. I mean, even though it seems to me that the applicants of the amendments are formally right, that we would do more damage if we accepted the amendment, because then it enters into the internal organization of the church itself. It's not that simple, not to deal with it, there are different approaches to this. They have, churches and religious organizations, they have a way of controlling, the way they control these things and there are courts there, there are church prosecutors, there's one very strict procedure. Unless there were serious abuses, and there were situations like this, where civil courts would interfere, and no one would want to. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. I remind you, the country's foreign minister has signed an unauthorized act to fully protect the citizens of other states, members of the NATO Pact, from anything that could be legal action for crimes committed on our territory. Now that that's the case, and that's upside down, I have to say, then what's the subject of this article in this law and this amendment is really for a song. We don't have any trouble here. I think this is one of the sources of autonomy that we shouldn't violate by accepting this amendment. With that in mind, I think, with all the dilemmas I have, the Proposer measured it to be the least harmful, yet useful to churches and religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26073	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26074	I think this amendment should be accepted because it may look like a state interference in the internal affairs of the church, and it may even look like the church in a sense does not respect the state. Namely, if you know, ever since you came to power and since civilian control of the Yugoslav Army, then the SCG military, the organisational units of the army that have so far had the autonomous right to supply equipment and weapons, in accordance with the plans adopted at the General Staff and the Supreme Defence Council, have lost their right to do so. Now no military unit has the right to dispose of any means whatsoever. And now all of a sudden, you're putting in the organization units of the church. Do you know how many parishioners there are in Serbia? Now let's not talk about eparchy, but here's to starting with eparchy as a higher form of organization. The government can force dioceses in which the bishop is not opposed to the interests of the government, co-operates with the authorities, weighs the candidates of the authorities, and you know it very well in Serbia. There are bishops who are at the will of one, the other, the third, somehow sharing the feud and all that can be done through money. Because the church depends on the state. By collecting funds from the people, the church cannot be self-financed. It has to for capital investments, to restore or raise new facilities, to get money from the state. Now the state is going to say, I'm going to see this legal person in this diocese, or that legal person in that dibs in that dibs in that dibs in that dibs, and it's not interested in whether someone at church level sees it and thinks where they need to help the believers find a place to gather, where there's a lot of objects. Therefore, I would not agree that the very state decides to register legal persons, with which legal person it will cooperate, which it will not, with which it will no longer and with whichever less. At the same time, it may be a sign that representatives of these organisational units, paros, representatives of church municipalities, come directly to the ministry, as a legal person, and provide funds for which they think the moment is the most important. Don't let the state decide what's most important to the church by funding certain purposes. Let go, I repeat the discussion of the principle debate, you register the church's giro-account, you control, of course, the spending of funds on the giro-account, you have the full right to do so, especially those funds that the state intends to do. Let the church within that giro-account, as the political party does, and now I will rightly demand from you that every municipal board, every organisational part of the political party has its own giro-account. Then why did you deny it to us? What, we're not honorable people, we're not going to have the means honestly. One system you adopt in the state applies to everything. No more systems, no more double standards. I repeat, the political party can only have one jury account. The church can't have 100 giro accounts. No one in the church can control, believe me, the most important thing is how people in the church control each other. They know very well who will be able to use these funds and use them. So I would ask you, and of course you decide on everything in voting day, to respect the purpose of this amendment. It is also necessary to change attitude 4, since it mentions organisational parts that have legal personality, but if it is not in the first three positions, it does not matter, although the Legislative Committee can throw out. The amendment is good and regulates relations between the state and the church. The state at the level of co-operation with the church at the level, the state should not bring that co-operation down to lower organisational parts in the church.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26075	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on European Integration has submitted the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Sarovic will explain. Mr. Sarovic, they say the whole member has been deleted, but it doesn't matter that it was deleted, Mr. Sarovic is right, he didn't say to delete, he suggested the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26076	I thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I hope that she's the one who ruled during Mr. Markovic's reign, there's finally a little democracy in this National Assembly. So, as for the amendment to Article 10, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, of course it is not an amendment that is deleted, because we consider this to be an extremely serious law. Unfortunately, it's obvious that some others don't think so. It took you a long time to come up with this proposal and I disagree with my colleague Radovanovic, who says it's two and a half years, five and a half years, because despite the government's leadership with Vojislav Kostunica, there has obviously been continuity in many things in power since that DOS regime since 2000. The amendment stipulates that in Article 10, "the churches and religious communities registered under this law" are replaced by the words "the churches and the religious communities of Article 4 of this Law". In this way, a link is being established with the amendment to Article 4 which has also submitted to the SRS and we continue to hope that you will still adopt our concept and our vision of the regulation of this area, because what you have given in terms of reason and teaching, as you say, and in order to, as we say, adopt this law, is to establish democratic and free co-operation relations between the state and the church. I really don't know what that relationship should be and what you mean by the co-operation relations of the state and the church. This is a term he could sooner find a place in some other law, but not in this one. The way you see the church and how you see the state is clearly very different from ours. I would take the opportunity to say, among other things, something else that is very important. This resembles what the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Vojislav Kostunica, is currently working. In several municipalities in Serbia, extraordinary local elections were held. You, using the levers of power, have greatly accelerated your success in these municipalities. You used state capacities in local campaigns, so those voters who vote for your candidates, they're good, and where there's an election, there's something going on, and where there's no choice, you're not interested in those municipalities. What is a change of attitude, and it is obvious that the Democratic Party is, since you are the most numerous here, and here we are damn sure to take advantage of the presence of senior officials of the Democratic Party, so let's hear more about these topics. In fact, it's the Surdulci municipality. For months now, the government of the Republic of Serbia's huge pressures on the So Surdulica councils have been taking place, all in order to bring down local authorities. It wouldn't be a bad thing, or incomprehensible if you were doing it with regular and democratic means, so that your SO committees would go out and possibly go out for the assembly speaker, the way we do it where we are in the opposition, criticise what that municipal government is doing. But instead, you chose a different path, and again through the ministries, through state institutions, and above all through the Ministry of Energy, EPS and the Ministry of Capital Investments, you started to do, through the managers of the EPS company, or through the own hydropower plant, pressure on individual committees to cancel the support of local authorities. So for example, you threatened Branislav Todorovic, a member of the SPS, and the threats were supported both by Sanja Cekovic and Srdjan Sredkovic, all on behalf of the DSS, who in this way is trying to fight for some new elections there. I ask if you support or do not support such an action, whether it is your state-of-the-art position or if you simply decided to make it look like you're destroying everything that can be broken down first in southern Serbia. I have to mention some things that are related to the Bujanovac municipality. For a month and a half already, negotiations between Serbian parties, i.e. parties that accept the state of Serbia in the Bujanovac territory, have taken place to form a common list of local elections to be held there. We from the SRS, as the most convincing party, not only here in parliament and in the people, it is even more pronounced on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality, we were, I say, very active in these negotiations, we had a few, a dozen meetings, and we were trying to agree and remove this danger that lurks over Serbia. I would remind you that Nagip Arifi, the president of the Bujanovac municipality, has recently presented a political platform on some sort of resolution of the crisis in these municipalities, or has put forward a proposal to separate these municipalities from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am not surprised that, in an indirect or direct manner, the Democratic Party agreed, because we do not long ago count the Democratic Party as state-run parties, because it does not need to remind that Novica Manojlovic, deputy president of the Bujanovac municipality, continued to sit at press conferences with Nagip Arifi, to smile and to support those parties that require secession from Serbia and who are asking in their recent actions that Albanian terrorists, who have been legally convicted of killing members of the state service, to be released and that what they have done, to commit amnesty and to say that it was a liberating struggle. This is the moment when the DSS needs to show whether it's a state-run party, are you ready to have certain agreements with other parties in order of higher interest, or is the only interest that you have in a personal and continuum way. You, which really disappointed me, came out with the fact that you have to have your own candidate. So, your position is that as a party that has a Prime Minister, there must be a candidate in the local elections. The SRS, aware of the dangers that exist in the municipality, is aware that the laws of the Republic of Serbia are not respected there, that there are some references to the liquidated Albanian terrorists, ladies and gentlemen, and this primarily refers to those who are yelling at the subject, on those names, wrote -- suffered in the account with the Serbian occupier. Is that the government policy of Vojislav Kostunica? It's that place where the mast of the Albanian banner is winding up. Things have been happening again in the areas of the Republic of Serbia in the 1990s in Kosovo and Metohija. Again, some citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have to pay for electricity, while the Serbs in KIM are cut off by electricity, in Strpc for an hour or two a day, when they are lucky, have electricity, yet some electricity does not pay in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it's time to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia and say whether you want to take over or not to take responsibility for certain things. In these negotiations, we have been perfectly correct and that fact can be confirmed by colleagues from G17 plus, from the SPS and all other parties involved in these negotiations. As far as the number of mandates is concerned, we gave in to the maximum. The deal was to make some coalition for higher interests, but now, unfortunately, it's become obvious that you don't want it. You know how many times we've put off the deal, Monday to Wednesday, Wednesday to Friday, Friday to Monday. So it's high time you came out and said what you wanted to say. These are things that are of paramount importance. We were more than correct, more than open to any deal. I urge you, in front of the citizens of Serbia, identify yourselves and tell who you want to support.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26077	Thank you. I think we've made this amendment clear. National MP Karaičić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26078	We haven't cleared anything up, I think we've complicated things, not our fault. My colleague, the previous speaker, used the pay phone twice. First he talked 11 minutes about something that was not on the agenda, but it was the manner of his party, and I think he did much more abuse by saying that the coalition was in power, and he thought, first of all, of the DSS, he won the local elections in the King, Smeder and Vienna by misusing the state apparatus. I think a lot of things are said in the campaign and anyone who says anything should be responsible for what they say. The abuse of the state implies abuse of public enterprises, implies everything seen before October 5th, that, for example, the director of a public firm threatens workers by firing because they do not vote for his candidate, threatens to cut wages and force people to vote as they do not think. I don't think we can because there's someone in the campaign, whether in Vienna, the King, or anywhere, in any of the stands promised anything, to bring it down to the fact that the state has misused powers and that someone from the top of the state has ordered that it's exactly how it has to be done. You know well that, if anything has been done for these two and a half years, it is that opportunities have calmed down in Serbia, that no one, nor you talk about potential election thefts, that there is no doubt that all elections are fair, whether local elections in local communities or elections at all levels, never, ever since the DSS took over the helm of power, there have been no such grudges, unlike earlier opportunities. If we've done anything, it's that we've calmed down such tensions and such tendencies. Therefore, do not let any leader’s words be seen as an abuse of the state. The abuse of the state is something very harmful, very dangerous and horrifying money is used by the state for personal purposes, but if anyone has never done it, it's this party, and if no one will ever do it, it's not this party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26079	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26080	Let's not kid ourselves, this pay phone is not a place to talk naive, and you don't talk naive. This can't even get through with the people. The behaviour of the authorities in Serbia in the latest local elections is adequate to the behaviour of all authorities before you. Your defeat in The Tower has forced you to approach the additional local elections differently. The entire apparatus is engaged in additional local elections. All budget funds, public fraud and worst, the minister of capital investment was on vacation for a month and a half, from village to village. What's the worst? He said if he wins the DSS candidate, you'll get that, too. Now you do what he promised you to do in front of the cameras. Now I ask you, is it the trouble of other municipalities that they don't have additional elections, so they won't get some time? It is, isn't it? Do you divide municipalities into those in which your own are in power and in which they are not? Is that why you go to local elections, disband municipalities where other people are in power? Of course. Don't kid yourself. The government can win any additional local elections, it can't win general local elections when it's bad authority. Don't convince me at all how partial local elections are being won. The way you started doing it, which is immoral, and you judged it until 2000. It was a general condemnation - what the authorities do when the elections are going, so it opens up open objects, as they hit the cornerstone just when the local elections are. You're doing it all. Where was Minister Bubalo all the time during the local elections, where was Velimir Ilic, where were the other ministers? In a local election campaign. Now you're saying it's not a topic to talk about. This one from Presevo tells you: if KIM gets independence, we join KIM immediately. That's not the point for you to talk about. No, we'll go with our candidate to Bujanovac. You're very strong to have a candidate in Bujanovac. What, will Velja Ilic and promise down the roads, so you can win the election in Bujanovac. No, but to break the Serbian electoral body: you candidates, we as the strongest candidate, the others group together -- candidates, so it will be like in Prijepolje -- a majority Serb animal, and two Muslim candidates enter the second round for the president of the municipality. They don't reflect the state of the municipality at all. That spirit of yours was painted in the local self-government election. Very bad. It turns out you're the kind of guy who gets you to the wall. We'll pay attention to that before the next election. You're capable of acting like Berlusconi. It doesn't answer to you that someone else is in power, although it is by the will of the people in power. It's not a community to you. When we speak to the Minister of Local Self-Government to help in municipalities where you're not in power, he doesn't react at all. When your partners turn around, the issue is resolved 24 hours from now by hearing the wish of the one who helps you rule. That's who you are. I don't know if they'll all be like that, but that's who you are now. Our job is to criticize you, and it's your job to prove that that's not true. I'm saying it's absolutely true. You use the same methods of conduct as we used before you. What do you want us to change you the same way? You want us to set the Federal Assembly on fire to prove you're stealing? I'm not that rude, nor do I have as little concern for a country as you are. For you, burning down the assembly isn't a crime. What are you talking to me about order, order and democracy, local elections, church law? For you, burning down the Federal Assembly is not a crime. Not only was no one answering, no one was prosecuted, no one was on official duty, because you did it. It's the only difference-- we're on and there's no chasing. (President: Time. On October 6, you must have boasted to the neighbor that you were there and that you were on fire. Now you can't brag. It's been a little longer now. I'd like to discuss important matters. This is a campaign. Your bill's proposals are a pre-election campaign, and our reaction to that is a pre-election campaign. Who would make you correct your sins 60 years ago? You suddenly do churches and religious communities before Easter. You're doing some rehab, you're thinking diaspora, you're liberating children who didn't serve the army, like someone's naive. Don't treat us like naives. If we were naive, we wouldn't have 40% of the electoral body. We're reading all your moves, but that's why you're putting up with it. You have attributes of power, leverage of power, money in your hands, co-operation with the EU in your hands, we have this speaker. What, do we have something left? So you use the pay phone, we use it, try to avoid the insults of the personal nature, and let the parties accuse each other. Of course they should be accused. If I reminded you of what your opposition struggle was like, you'd be ashamed of it yourself. You justified it, the dictatorial regime in Serbia. Watch out, motherfucker. In that dictatorial regime, you all lived well. Or this 25-year-old child died in the regime, now he's an MP. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. You've learned good methods of governance, and you're starting to apply them slowly. The more you're forced to lose a foothold in the people against the wall, the more you become rigid. Just make sure you don't cross the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26081	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26082	Again, I wouldn't have reacted if it hadn't been for this congregation. If I go to the congregation with a group of friends and I set the assembly on fire tonight, then it's a whim, a crime, and it's responsible. But neither I nor anyone can order that a hundred thousand people, half a million, come to some place anyway and just walk into some congregation, hall, hall, television, stadium, whatever. Please calm your colleagues down.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26083	Mr Karaičić, I try in every way to allow everyone to do their job, in the spirit of what Mr Nikolic was talking about before, and as far as I understand you wanted to speak to the Rules of Procedure. Please really talk to the Rules of Procedure. Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26084	Let me explain my position. So when it's done by 100,000 people or more, it's a message to one regime or any government. And when it comes to local elections, just one more thing. Two months ago, the newspaper was full of stories of DS, Karic, less of you, but it was here and there, give the elections, you have no support. Your entire coalition in power has 12 percent, 15 percent, 17 percent, etc. Then there were local elections, where someone won. Then it's not a subject anymore, it's a subject of abuse, baggers, tractors, roads paved, promises, campaigns. If it had measured what anyone said in the campaigns in the last 15 years, I think you'd be in a very high place by the promises you made and you didn't keep. So I can't judge it, neither can you, but only citizens who vote on it. And if the citizens of the Kings are so naive, that whoever made false promises gets 73 percent of the votes in the King, then that means that 73 percent of the votes in the King are given by people who don't know anything about that man who got those votes, that they don't know anything about life, and then you're right, and 73 percent of them in the King have no idea about life. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26085	I'm sorry, you'll get the right to a replica, I really thought it was a matter of correcting the incorrect facts of the number of years, otherwise I wouldn't allow it, but only by the Rules of Procedure, without an explanation. Here you go. Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26086	First of all, it's a lie. The one in the King didn't win 70 and some percent, it was in the second round of the number of outs. Don't manipulate 73 percent of the electoral bodies, because in the first round they divided the six entire electoral body and were very close, and maybe he had 30 percent of those who went out in the first round. It's about power, and it doesn't matter. It wasn't a committee election, it was an individual election, the president of the municipalities. Of course, the people in this situation will now vote for the candidate who will have government support. That's how you spread ideology. Whoever we choose will have support. I don't want to convince you, we'll come up with a choice when you're so strong. We haven't worked in three months, which we didn't have a choice, which we didn't hold elections where you would win the assembly, so now you're here if there were at least 80. Another thing that is very painful, which is your reaction to the burning of the Federal Assembly. That lit-up excuse, I'll never get that. You had a hundred thousand men ten days ago in front of the congregation, indignant. You've committed a crime, perhaps equal to what you thought was a crime on October 5th. I guarantee you that. Did these people come to the assembly? Did they set the congregation on fire? Did they break a window on the Federal Assembly building? Indignant people, you've made them sick, shown that you don't appreciate them at all. With regard to Milosevic, you have shown that you do not appreciate any of them. What do you care what the president of Serbia was called, he was the president of Serbia, what you will never be in life and what your party will never have in life - the president of Serbia. For you, it wasn't a man. For you, those people weren't human. You went to throw balloons, to wave, to laugh that day. Serbia's government. Get out of that coalition if you disgust Albianic, get him out of the coalition. If you don't get him out of the coalition, he's yours. He waved balloons. Mashe, there's just a funeral, and he's waving a balloon over here, looking forward, freed himself from the bad guy. I'm telling you, if it were a fool to lead that people 40 days ago, the Federal Assembly would have been on fire. Now I'm interested in who of you would have filed criminal charges against someone who set the Federal Assembly on fire when you made one precedent. Whoever fires the Federal Assembly must be punished so that your brother is born. So don't let your brother go and burn down the congregation. That's why I'm telling you. We're not going to take you down on the street, because I don't know if you're going to get 200 people to fire up the Assembly. I won't risk it. I want to beat you in the election. I won't risk it. You then had the support of Europe so that no one would be convicted of burning down the Federal Assembly. There's another state where the congregation and this one are incinerated. I haven't heard of a third one yet. So we've cleared this thing up. About the additional local elections, you use the additional local elections to set up your candidates. Do whatever you want, but don't disband parliaments where you're not in the majority, don't stop supporting municipalities where you're not in power, because you have no right to do that. That's where the citizens who didn't want you live. If you were honest people, you'd say, for 600 million dinars, we'd buy meat and bread and give it to the people, rather than pave the way for Nemanja's street again. That doesn't occur to you. You waste hundreds of millions, billions of people waste to pave the paved streets. What someone else doesn't have the bread to eat, which someone doesn't have a meter of sewerage, which doesn't have a three-phase current yet, you don't care. You've given up the even development of the country. No, you're developing urban environments where everything is, and you expect a large number of voters. You don't care about the village anymore. I've seen that. You're not interested in any streets that have under a thousand voters. It's just as criminally as if you were stealing the election. You are depriving a huge number of citizens, in huge territories, rights to life, and don't be surprised that Belgrade is getting bigger and Serbia is increasingly empty and increasingly empty. Don't be surprised that there are only new streets and houses on Belgrade, because you are investing in Belgrade. For you, Belgrade is Serbia. Then don't be surprised they're starting to cut off all kinds of territories where citizens live.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26087	My colleague, just tell me according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Angelkovic. To address where Dusan Prorokovic's party is recognised, the deputy will receive a replica. Mr. Karaicic, you won't get a replica, because it doesn't exist, it's discreetly right, I didn't recognize the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26088	Mr. President, I heard Mr. Karaicic speaking here, you can't speak against the law. Yesterday, Mr. Bajro Omeragic here said what it means when MPs call for a violation of the law. It's an end to the state. And you just called for a state to be abolished, by talking about the fact that when a 100,000 people can start a congregation, it's calling for the abolition of laws and legal projects and even respect for the law. Now, how do you do it, to see how you do it. When three members of the SPS, the president of young Socialists Dusan Jelic and two others apply to the Embassy of Great Britain to submit a request, a protest over their position, theirs, I will not mention his name, regarding the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, and they are scheduled to talk at the embassy, then they were accidentally found by a police officer on February 11th, 2006, in Belgrade, on the street, of course Resavska number 46, outside the Embassy of Great Britain, police officers found them, according to the reported Jelic Dusan in a violation of non-reporting of the public assembly and the Law on Citizens' Gathering and filed him with criminal charges. That is how, when Dusan Jelic comes to apply, to protest the position of Great Britain over Kosovo and Metohija, about the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, the police stop him and say, you do not have the right here to report him, nice and fine. Here, look, there's a date when he's supposed to pick up. It's not about a cop. It's about breaking the law. When three individuals go to a registered meeting at the Embassy of Great Britain, they get criminal charges, and you here say there's no criminal record against the one who burned the Assembly. It is calling for a violation of the law, it is a violation of this Rules of Procedure and it is a violation of this Parliament's dignity. You have no right to do that. You can never file criminal charges against those who burned the Assembly, but you have no right to legalize it, to say it's legal and that 100,000 people have the right to fire the Assembly. This must not happen in this country to Serbia, regardless of the occasion. They're double arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26089	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Of course, you're entitled to a replica now, but we're going in a row. Here you are, Mr. Prophetovic, a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure, and then Mr. Karaičić will receive a replica, as you are personally called by Mr. Angelkovic. Here you go, Mr. Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26090	Many things are mentioned, and they have nothing to do with the bill or with what's on the agenda. Yes, the Serbian coalition in Bujanovac needs to be discussed, but the parties need to discuss it with each other, as they have agreed so far, not to talk through a assembly pay phone. We need to discuss the situation in southern Serbia for the assembly speaker, we don't mind. Whenever there was an initiative to discuss similar things here in this assembly room, we accepted. So, nothing is disputed, if we could benefit from that debate, here, we'll open it. Does the government abuse its resources to win local elections? I happen to know that the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection approved large funds for several municipalities in Serbia yesterday, in most of the opposition in power, in order to resuscitate wild dumps, in order to bring down certain land for purposes. Here, let the presidents of the opposition take advantage of the funds, spend them the right way and make certain political points and win the next election, I don't mind. But there is absolutely no discrimination. Where's Minister Bubalo? Again, I happen to know that today he is in some municipalities, headed by opposition parties. No looking black and white, and I think it's the biggest legion of two-year-old government in which the DSS is involved. For sixty years, this country had no law on churches and religious organizations. I'd like to go back on the subject, because if no one else, that's what the representatives of seven traditional churches and religious organizations expect from us. I'd like to pass this law as soon as possible, to regulate their status. This will be another contribution from this parliament to normalising relations and conditions in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26091	Thank you very much, Mr. Prophet. Here you go, replica, Boris Karaičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26092	I see some things haven't been cleared up here five and a half years after October 5th. Here, if it's up to criminal charges, it's my fault. But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26093	Please, no throwing, please. The MP has the right to use immunity and to plead guilty. Right? Here you go, Mr. Karaicic. Please, we're taking it easy. Excuse me, Mr. Karaicic, I'll give you your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26094	It's very interesting how you try to lower the subject in all ways, dissipate, but it won't work. One congregation that burns, any institution is not a collection of bricks, windows, ticks on that building, but a symbol of something. It was believed to be a symbol of something wicked for the number of people who far surpassed or exceeded that number of 100,000 when what happened happened. And when you consider the ten years that preceded it, any possible thefts in the elections, appeals, requests, calls for that authority to come to its senses, and not to do what it did and where it is fortunate to have gone in 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, it would not have burned that assembly, but the things that are happening now would have happened. The power would be won and lost in the elections, no one would meet at night to declare a non-existent victory, it wouldn't go to you in Zemun on October 5th for the election results, because the government raped and turned to those who won and for the fifth-sixth time in ten years, in just ten years, refused to admit the most normal thing, which is that the government is replaceable. That's why the assembly burned. And if you're making fun of it, I've been there. I didn't go in unfortunately for tear gas, but later I entered the Mothers of Jevrosima and the Politics. I didn't take the gun. Politics has prevented the theft of property and abuse. I say, that the same thing happens again, that someone steals elections, abuses power for personal gain, be it, but know that no institution, any television, police station, congregation, any one of you, was in it, was I, not a collection of bricks, windows and scratches, but a symbol of a state, and it was not designed by the one who destroyed it, but the one who made a mockery of that institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26095	Please, please, just keep your voice down. Please, don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared, according to Business, MP Hranislav Peric. My position is very clear to you. Efforts to list the reason to burn down whatever building I'm always going to be incomprehensible. And that's one thing. Others are metaphors and advocacy, in a rather unusual way, exposed, which I hope is shared by everyone in this assembly, which is that only the elections are coming to power, that there should be no vote to steal votes and that no people's will should be let down. I accept everything else exclusively as a metaphor spoken for by all the participants. If you agree, there's no need for us to continue this controversy except for the replicas. Let's slowly bring this dispute to an end. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic and Peric appeared, and Mr Angelkovic answered the line. Are any of you giving up? Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, for giving up. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26096	Mr. President, I answered because the previous debate here was saying what was not on the agenda, but what he was saying you had to warn him. I have to say, and I always want to talk about this talk about the truth, that you, Mr. Karaicic, burned down the Assembly, and after five years, you don't understand why you burned. You have a problem with you burning down the Assembly, because you must know, and that is known to everyone, lately you Democrats, who have burned the Assembly with you, are constantly calling that Kostunica has not won the election. Kostunica didn't get 50% plus one, and you started the assembly. That's where most of the weight is. If you were right, to burn it down, so that someone could see through your fingers, but I repeat, you didn't win that election, and since we have that culture to do no harm to this country, we let you rule a little bit. But for what you've done to the Serbian Parliament, you'll answer eventually. Nobody burned until dawn. When the power changes, you with those black T-shirts that say "Resistance" will have to pay for the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26097	Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26098	I'm sorry that Mr. Karaicic is a young man, he's not in progress, but he has to read a little bit, read the data, and when he reads the 2000 data, he'll see in fact that we're not talking about presidential elections, and of course no one has ever said from the SPS that Slobodan Milosevic won, it was just a matter of talking about whether he has 50%. The point is that the SPS has received 56 MPs since 108, 2000, Mr Karaic, without the SRS. You were confidently defeated in the election for the federal MPs, and you forgot it. That's your problem. The fact that Pedja Bulatovic then betrayed because of your pressure, so you went to the other side, so you made an artificial coalition, that's a second question, but in 2000, the SPS won convincingly when it comes to federal MPs. Keep that fact in mind. This is a replica and president of the Assembly, then there is no failure of the electoral will of the citizens, but respect for the will of the citizens, and I remind you of the Sava Centre, when you violently failed that parliament, and we had the courage to come to the Sava Center to have 56 MPs from 108, Mr Karaičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26099	Thank you very much, Mr. Angelkovic, for this courage I know very much, as I know you are not an old man, and therefore this was a compliment that you sent to the MP and thank you for continuing to hold a session based on your youth. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26100	Finally, let's get back to what we're supposed to do, discuss the amendments. I'm sorry we waste so much time fighting, as ordinary people say. In order to help the debate in the next session, the SDP amendment, that article 11 should be deleted, just like the members 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, go with the same reasoning we have written. And in order not to abuse your time, and I can see that there are a lot of nervous people, we simply need to appreciate our work and the citizens, especially because it would not be a good thing for a law like this, which is entitled to speak of the rights of believers, churches and their dignitaries, to enter into some days that are near the greatest Christian holidays. Article 11, we suggested that he delete himself, with a very simple and simple explanation, I will not bother very much because I will not report for the next seven members, who have a factually identical proposal, with almost identical reasons, but it is interesting how suddenly the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee have accepted that Article 10 be deleted. In fact, Article 10 was the member who sublimed the history, the genealogy, and the constitutional and legal, of all traditional churches, and we are still standing on the point that it may have been more logical for that member to remain in the 10th, and that these members are deleted as we have suggested, because members from 11th to 18th are actually members who copy in which acts are in the former states, state communities, where these traditional churches are registered, they were included in the lives of those countries. But it's the government that accepts what she wants and thinks it's meaningful at this point. What I'm going to say and what's the explanation of all these amendments, and I'm going to say just a few more minutes so I won't pick up after spending an hour and a half as much time as I can, so by publishing certain churches, we think it's putting the principle of equality at risk. That's what we repeated in the principle debate, that's what we repeated in some of the first members of this law, because the foundation of religious freedom is that no one is privileged. This inequality that we point to, when it comes to churches and religious communities, is causing some concern from the point of view of these famous human rights and their respect, because the opposite is, I must repeat, Article 9. The European Charter for the Protection of Human and Minority Rights. If we share churches with traditional, confessional and those who are yet to register according to what we will determine to members who come behind Article 20. The bill then provides an opportunity for registration in this respect to be subject to the ministry's discretionary law, contrary to the Charter of State Community members Serbia-Montenegro, which does not know at all the possibility of restricting religion. Simply, it was established in one of the next members that the SPC has an outstanding historical, state-efficient and civilizational role in the formation, preservation and development of the identity of the Serb people. Every serious man who knows anything about the state of Serbia and the history of the SPC I suppose he knows and I don't see if this finding is a place in the law, simply doesn't have a dispositive character, what lawyers would say, and there's no binding character, because it singles out a church, describes something that might be possible to put into preamble some declarations, maybe some constitution, etc. I don't know if it's her place here, so I'm going back to the explanation that this separation may put the principle of equality at risk, in general, not only when it comes to relation to citizens, but maybe to others. And to stand this foundation of the SPC in the statehood of eight centuries, it's every smart guy and one who's learned and read a little bit and knew about our country and the history of the SPC, I guess he knows. So once again my repetition, we won't report for the next seven amendments, until Article 19, which we also withdrew, is our fifteenth amendment where we suggested that it be deleted. Ljiljana and I aren't gonna answer, we're just gonna get this debate back into something that's our job and, in a way, we're gonna speed up, because it's already half past nine, and I want to believe that we're going to be discussing amendments and the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26101	Thank you. I also thank you for not reporting and for contributing to speed up the debate. More on this other one. The word is Mr. Aligrudić, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26102	I would like to respect Mr. Omerovic's position that we cannot report to all amendments by Mrs. Nestorovic and Mr. Omerovic. We'll see, depending on what's written in certain members where they're asked to delete. I can appreciate that it applies, practically, to the numbering of religious communities that are given here from Article 11 to Article 17 of this Law. So the question is very simple, we can make a law and so we don't count any religious communities, that there's no system of emulation in the law at all. But there must always be some kind of restriction. We can say this, there are religious communities, religious freedoms, among other things, are expressed by feeling to the members of a certain community. It doesn't have to be defined, it doesn't have to have an active definition in the law, but there is still a Constitution of this state. Nevertheless, there are certain restrictions, if anything else from the basic principle that no one can use his right by using it to harm another, by using his right to endanger the rights of others. It's a basic restriction. However we write it in law, we can't avoid this. What are those rights? I said I'd be out of my mind tonight until it's understood what the meaning of the law is and why this is meant to be here. When we regulate the question of religious communities, we also refer to religious freedoms as one of the basic constitutions of guaranteed rights. This right, as well as other rights in the Constitution, cannot be used in such a way as to endanger other people's rights and other rights and freedoms provided for by international documents and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, religious freedom, I repeat, must not be used by jeopardizing the right to life, the right to health, the rights of children, the right to personal and family integrity and the right to property, nor by provoking and encouraging religious, national and racial intolerance. Furthermore, freedom of religion and religious belief must be subject to only those restrictions, and clearly stands in Article 3 of this bill, there are no restrictions, but only those restrictions prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, valid and probably new when it is adopted, when there will also be certain restrictions. By law, it is thought of all those laws that regulate certain substances that touch human rights and freedoms in any way, counting also criminal and legal regulations, as well as ratified international documents, as I have already said, which are necessary for a democratic society to protect public security, which is a standard of public order, which is also a standard of morality, which is the broadest standard, but which is understood in terms of the standard of secular state and the protection of freedom and the rights of others. There are no other types of restrictions, and these restrictions are extremely clear. What do we get by erasing emulation? We're only getting one very bad side of this thing. We're losing sight that when we delete the numbering of the religious communities that are given here, we lose that fine distinction that exists between something that represents 95% of the population. It's a declaration code. She doesn't put in an unequal position anyone. The fact is that there are religions and there are religious communities, which according to their nature are traditional churches and religious communities, are listed simply because it is a list of facts. No one made that up. We didn't go here with some kind of convention, we sat down, and we agreed to throw a cube that we'd call the community, but the ones that actually existed for hundreds of years in this room that, over a long period of time, brought together a significant number of people, who, using their rights, considered themselves members of that community. There's no exhausting that list. It goes on and on, unlike those who believe that there is a danger of registration of the Satanic sect, and I don't think it exists, because the state knows what it's doing, so it won't allow these freedoms, or this right, that I've previously listed, to be compromised in any way. We practically have protection, on the one hand, basic freedoms and the rights that are stated, and we do not have a principled limit to what is considered a religious community. We have a clear instruction to the state authority on what to register and what in the sense of this law can be registered religious community, or church. So there's no such thing as a restriction. By erasing the members, we want to deny reality, deny what exists in society. This is a list. No one can tell me that it's insignificant that there's a SPC because it's an extremely important thing, it has to find its place in the law. Not that I am against eradicating these members, from Articles 11 to 17, but I believe that it completely destroys the law, the essence, the foundation of the regulation that was proposed. It is absolutely impossible to delete, it is legally possible and that is why the Legislative Committee has said that amendments are legally possible. It's essentially impossible compared to this text of the law. We can't change that. I understand all the motives, but I think those who have that motivation are on the wrong track, like we don't understand each other, like we're talking in a wedge and someone in a record. We're either telling the same story, and then we're deliberately pretending like there's a problem. I don't understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26103	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic, for the clarification. The word has been given by the MP Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26104	Of course, the link between members exists with members of the fourth and tenth, and it's a direct link. I am opposed to an amendment submitted by Mr Omerovic and Mrs Nestorovic. I object to the concept of the law, because we are trying to tackle the adverse consequences that can come from this bill, as it is given in the original text. Of course, Mr Radovanovic will especially discuss our amendment to article 11. However, I must point out one more thing that has missed all of us. You wrote that traditional churches are those that in Serbia have centuries of historical continuity and whose legal subjectivity is acquired under special laws. Their legal subjectivity is not the result of some law and is not the basis of some law, because before it is a modern Serbian state, and it has been treated as existing for 200 years, and started to regulate its laws, there were other religious communities on this territory, and that is the first great inaccuracy. So now we can go back to Dushan's code, as per continuity. We can go back wherever we want, I think there's this big irregularity here, and people are smiling, they don't get it, because this is a very important question. If you're talking about the legal subjectivity of a church, specifically the SPC, based on some law, then I ask the question, how are you going to solve the property issue, whether it comes from the acquisition of legal subjectivity, or if it has its own historical pretext? You didn't write that it did, you wrote that it was traditional, if it was based on the law, and this country was built by the SPC. I'm not going to compare what's older now, but you've passed the law completely unnecessary, you've missed the subject, you've had to regulate the way you've done it. You're trapped in churches. You churches, religious communities, organizations share the players who play in the first league, second league, zone and what falls out of the competition system. There is no greater humiliation for religious communities in Serbia than this bill. It doesn't exist. On the occasion of each member, I explain what the gap and lack are seen in. Be careful how many logical problems there are in the bill. Ten minutes ago, 15 minutes ago, two hours ago and this morning, the law of 1953, the law of 1977, is not recognised, under those laws was done, probably according to the one from 1953 Micunović rode, only talking about it, and then you go to continuity and you call for those regulations. You weren't there, Mr. Angelkovic, there was all sorts of noises here, so even applause fell, after 32 minutes of some insignificant story, a frenetic round of applause fell, and therefore applause was attacked by the law of 1953, and yet poor Milovan Radovanovic turned out to be the one who brought it, he was not born then. How bad that is, how bad that is, and now this article is talking about continuity under the law, and the SPC is older than this period called the modern Serbian state. You see for yourself, the minister a little bit and escapes, but I know they're gonna run away, that they're gonna use this time, you've caused a bad subject for some propaganda. The SPC and the traditional churches that operate in the Republic of Serbia, some of them don't share my opinion, I have to tell you. I know these representatives of the Roman Catholic Church have a very bad opinion of my performances, as I have a bad opinion of their church, but since I am a religiously tolerated man, I do not dispute any believer of the Roman Catholic Church his right. Of course, we don't touch that part and these amendments don't get us into the religious feelings of individuals. It's just that I have to figure this out, this is where history goes. Mr. Radovanovic will talk about our amendment. I'm surprised you didn't accept our amendment, we even fixed the names in both attitudes. You don't even know the names of the churches, I can understand that the MP doesn't know, but as the minister doesn't know what those churches are called, they're subscribers with him, he's giving something there, he's fixing churches, whether it's Christian, whether it's reform-Christian, he's confused everything, and he's writing some books about religion, he's investigating something. In the end, I'm gonna have to read that book of his so people can laugh a little bit, you've got the wrong counselors. Serbia has a strong theological school, there are people who do theology, you have a young man, Vladimir Dimitrijevic, why didn't you consult him to tell you, Zoran Milosevic, that you didn't consult, that you didn't consult Avramov for not consulting. Why haven't you consulted some people who know that, who have a profession. You have very high-quality columnists who write in newspapers, Svetozar Radisic, so Kijuk, a gentleman who knows this matter very well, for not consulting people who present themselves there, who perform, who know everything, to give you beautiful lectures in the field of theology. I'm not in charge of these things, but I have to show up sometime, because I have an elemental logic, so it would be a shame to sit here and say, look, a common sense of judgment is a problem with the promoter, and you haven't noticed. We see problems in judgment, which are manifested in the text of the law. You're referring to what you're attacking, it's nowhere to be found. I wouldn't be surprised if you finally submitted an amendment if Vojislav Kostunica had made SPC.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26105	The word has been made by the People's MP, Prophetic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26106	The amendment is against the spirit of the law, because I support the law in general, I cannot support this amendment, or correction in particular. In fact, in some previous members, the law defines that the freedom of every believer is inviolable and that his commitment, as his personal matter, is absolutely invulnerable and that man cannot therefore be subject to any discrimination or sanctions. But collective rights are also defined, because religious communities function as collectiveities, and in this sense, seven traditional churches and religious organizations, five Christian churches and the SPC, the Roman Catholic Church, and also the Protestant Evangelical Church and two religious communities, the Islamic religious community and the Jewish religious community are particularly prominent. For me, the separation of these seven churches and religious communities is politically important. Serbia thus shows that the state with a legal continuity, which has regulated the position of different religious communities since 1804 and one of the first indications of Milos was an indication of the position of Jews in the then-Književina of Serbia. Serbia shows that it is not a pumpkin without roots when it comes to this legislation and that our legal tradition and political tradition and how it differs from the legal and political tradition of some other countries of Southeast Europe, which should serve us for pride. In political terms, this is very important, because it once again shows that Serbia is a multi-religious and multi-confessional state, that it is, throughout its whole modern history, with all the advantages multi-confessionalism and multi-religiousism bear.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26107	The word is made by MP Rajko Bralic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26108	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, there is not a single colleague, I accept the argument, and I couldn't support the amendment, and I'm sorry, it's not an abuse, just half a minute, I'd like to say here, since it's about continuity, traditional churches, I've been thinking for a long time whether I should say it, but I will, since there's been a lot of attacks on the previous state. So the state project was to strengthen the factions of the Roman Catholic Church in the Socialist Yugoslavia. That's what I want to say with full responsibility, I can bring a document about it, and whatever it sounds like today, and whatever it is you're looking at here tonight, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia and the SPC, and now is the time to find out. We can talk about this on some other occasion, there's a saying in the people -- you don't always need to blame yourself on a smoke. All things should be well learned, read, not so naive and harmless. State policy in this country has been serious and at some point we often spit on, and for that we have not enough reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26109	I understand there's no one else in this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26110	Mr. Chairman, as far as I can tell, I have here a government report saying the amendment has been accepted. I don't think we should discuss this amendment that's been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26111	The following amendment is said: "The traditional churches are those that have a centuries-long historical continuity in Serbia and whose legal subjectivity is acquired under special laws, and this is: the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Slovak evangelical Church, the Reform Christian Church and the Evangelical Christian Church. "In Item 2 after the word "Islam" the word "religious" is added, and after the word "Jewish" the word "religious" is added. The secretary informs me that the government has accepted in part. Minister, does it mean you accept the amendment completely now? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26112	Let's just figure out exactly how the amendment reads. We thought that in this form in which we got it couldn't, but the one you delivered to me was acceptable and the government accepted it. This is about a technical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26113	Minister, please take a look at this text, so tomorrow it won't be a problem to publish in the Official Messenger if it's accepted. Mr. Tadic can give us back the law, so we can sit here all night.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26114	This is the amendment that was in the government and that was accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26115	So the amendment I read was accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26116	Absolutely. Not all churches have been typed here by technical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26117	I suggest a two-minute break, so the service can clarify this amendment, so we don't get in a position to make a technical mistake. Minister, please, along with the service and with Mr Markovic, clarify the amendment. A two-minute break. [[After break – 21.15.]] We can keep going, so I don't get criticized from RTS if I didn't press the bell when they were supposed to turn on. So this is clear: the proposing representative accepted the amendment, but did not become an integral part of the law, given that the Committee on European Integration, although I do not understand where this committee is responsible for religious communities, did not accept it, so it must vote on the amendment when it is there. But the president's representative accepted it, that's the point. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I understand that MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic will not speak. They just made a statement. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Someone doesn't want a word. The 17th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic and together by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. A bill on churches and religious communities, which requires that this article of the bill be deleted. Article 17. The bill stipulates that the confessional communities are the Christian Baptist Church, the Christian Adventist Church, the Evangelist Methodist Church, the Pentecostal Church, the Evangelical Christian Church and other religious organizations registered under the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities of 1953 and the 1977 Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities. The amendment to this bill is in line with the concept of the SRS, which we have regarding the entire Bill on Churches and Religious Communities. The essence of our concept refers to the amendment to Article 4. The bill, which we taxed seven churches and religious communities, and the whole law is in the spirit of that amendment, so we believe that all of these others, as you call them, in the bill of another religious organization, should not be mentioned in the Bill of Churches and Religious Organizations. I want to say something first about article 17. When it is said that other religious organisations are registered under the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities, it is true that the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities of 1953, as well as the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities since 4 November 1977, have been very liberal. The 1977 law in the provisions of Article 4 states - citizens can freely establish religious communities. So whoever comes to mind can form and register a religious community. What's so controversial about that? What do I want to draw your attention to? It's said of these other religious organizations -- registered under these laws. It's not the minister, just to answer me one question -- which state body registered religious communities, any religious community, religious organization, religious group? None. That's the problem. No state body has registered any religious community, no church, no religious community, no religious organization, no religious group. It's not. Is that the Ministry of Faith of the Republic of Serbia? It's not. Is the Federal Ministry of Faith? It's not. Is it another organ? It's not. What was the MUP of Serbia, the MUP of Yugoslavia doing? He didn't register. He only received applications for registration, i.e. registrations, but not religious communities, but associations of citizens from the religious area. So they didn't register. Only without any conclusion, without any solution to registration, did he receive to know the application of a purely consistent action on the existence of an association of citizens as a form of association of citizens in the field of religion. This was abolished by the Supreme Court of Serbia on February 1st 1995, banning the finding that there is no association of citizens in the religious area. You can take a look. I have a photocopy of that decision by the Supreme Court of Serbia. What's so controversial about it now? There are no registered religious organizations. Neither are these religious organizations listed in Article 17. It's a bill of law. There's no state body that registered them because there's no registration. Why are we in the SRS stressing this if there is no potential danger to spiritual health, mental health, human health, family, state, society in general. It's not our guess, our fearsome, pure, empty story. On the basis of a large number of examples, we form such a fear for society in general, for individuals, for family, that we do not want to stand as the possibility of registering a religious organization. What are we afraid of? What's happening today. You all know of scientology, the most dangerous religious sect in the world. Is Scientology in Serbia? It does not exist under that name, but it acts as a religious association, as an association of citizens under a different name and under other motives and a numbered description of its operation. It is a problem that the future state body, under the Bill on Churches and Religious Communities, will be able to register, which we have challenged to the amendments, that there is no registration, just keeping registers of traditional churches and religious communities. Eventually, they file a religious organization, where it writes a second name, where it says in a description of their action that it is a religious organisation that is okay, normally works, not destructive, not associative, in line with the state, social system of the Republic of Serbia, etc. She'll be registered that way. And what is the real form of action of such a religious organization? That's the question we in the SRS are afraid of. We are justifiably afraid of such a way of registering and operating such religious organizations, which are absolutely religious, totalitarian, destructive, associative religious sects. Here in article 17 you provided for the registration and existence of the Pentecostal Church. Let me tell you in the words of a man who deals with this area, Sladjan Myaljević, when it comes to the Pentecostal Church, that totalitarianity is reflected in the conduct of their learning and only learning is right and rescue, so they think. For the general public, they want to show themselves in the best light, that they are very positive members of the social community and even have a humanitarian organization called "The Bread of Life". According to the interpretation of psychiatrists and psychologists in their departments, people introduce into mass hypnosis, be careful, lead people into mass hypnosis. The Pentecostal Church, which is provided for in Article 17. Proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. I don't know, I didn't see the amendment erase. But okay, let me finish this for a little while. The destruction is seen with several aspects, according to itself, according to the family, according to the social environment, towards state institutions. They are using their missionaries for intelligence work, and you know for example John David Najbor and 2002, he was a pastor and professor of pentectology for the public, and, of course, when he was arrested in that spy affair with Momcilo Perisic, he showed the CIA's identity to Blakan. You know that story. But since you say she has an amendment to delete herself, that's good. These others are also problematic. It's all wiped out? Well, we'll see about that. In Article 17, which I asked for the amendment to be deleted, a religious organization that you predicted, the Christian Adventivist Church. Look out, recently, the Israeli Ministry of Interior made a decision to banish 11 Americans, suspected of planning, as members of a Christian sect, to witness a new millennium, in a violent way, to mark the second appearance of Jesus Christ. Adventists were expelled from Israel, a country of Israel that has close diplomatic, military and political co-operation with the United States. What, they don't know what they're doing? They're crazy, right? They were described as a dangerous religious sect, those 11 Americans, as people who have no place and need to be in their own country, made a decision and expelled them from their own country. They are not our citizens, but we are talking about the members and activists of the Adventist Church, which in all the world, because of the shape and manner of action, destructive and associative, and therefore the state, or the Ministry of the Interior of Israel, has decided to banish them from Israel. Americans. That makes me happy, Mr. Minister, if you want to banish Americans like that from our country, who are harmful to society and Serbia in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26120	You're not worried about that, are you, Mr. Radovanovic? I'm just asking. Mr. Aligrudic, please. Milos Aligrudić, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26121	So, indeed, most of the things that the predecessor made stand, especially the argument that has been made here in terms of the reasons that stand for deleting Article 17, in the way that the amendment promoter put it. But, of course, I can't judge whether the Pentecostal Church is what you said, Adventistic, etc. simply because I didn't do it that way. Just to remind myself that, when it comes to such churches that have been registered with us, I agree with everything that you've been saying about not being a register, that it was a system of application, etc., so that practically something that looks like a community of citizens could be represented as a religious community, no matter how much that community is, and certainly that at that time Communism served to relativise the talks on freedom of religion, because that was probably the one-sided communist regime at the time. Of course, that's what it stands for, but I just want to ask you, do we have in mind that these people we talk about are citizens of our citizens, our citizens, who have the right to someone's commitment? Why am I saying that? It's simply because this law, it's precisely one of the arguments that was against the law, I respect that, in this law in terms of registration as a new category, a new concept, is a certain discount in that formal sense. This means that religious communities and churches must still be registered within the meaning of Article 22 of this Law. And then I'm going to say what was not heard or not known, so let's get this straight. The amendment is not submitted, so it is more physically, formally not related to that member of the law as it has been read, because that member of the law in the proposal has been amended by the Committee, which was adopted by the Legislative Committee, so it is actually now as follows: The confessional communities are all those churches and religious organisations whose legal status has been regulated by the application, in accordance with the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities ("the Official Journal of the FNRJ") and the Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities". What do you say here? In fact, this defines the concept of a confessional community without emulation. Well, you say, I think it's worse, so it looks like it's a larger number. On the other hand, you would be right, but the point is that Article 22, as Article 11, speaks of this, is determined by re-registration. It was another argument against, but we claim it's okay. So, re-registration, this basically means avoiding emulation, listing in the confiscation communities as it is now stated, all those who want not to register but registration must come under attack, and unfortunately I must repeat, those provisions of this law that provide, i.e. protect certain values of society or certain rights in accordance with the Constitution, which are strictly mentioned in Articles 2 and 3, life, health, personal and family integrity, such as public security, morality, so something that is linked to public and social order. That body of rights protected by the Constitution above all and international documents, or international contracts ratified by our country. Therefore, do not slow down any moment all that you have stated and believing that it is safe because you have done it correctly, related to some organizations, and perhaps it is not true, don't be angry, I won't go into it. I'm just giving up one fence. It's about our citizens, our citizens. When we talk about foreign organisations or those operating outside the borders of our country, it is possible that there have been various stories or even evidence of an operation, we are saying this from the aspect of what is a phenomenal form in our country, and we are looking at it and we can only look at it from the aspect of the threat to the rights and freedoms of others and these values that I was talking about. If that's not there, since we're a secular state, we're not theocratic, so we only take care of that aspect. Now, of course, we can start by assuming that we don't trust the ministry and the government to make a regulation on the implementation of this law in registration in such a way that these fears will be made justified, so someone will happen to register Satanists. But is that possible? It's just not possible. Why isn't it possible? Because when a state body adheres to the rules laid down by law, that kind of organisation cannot register. It's the same story that I gave you today an example of a judge who judges in a litigation procedure, where you have two sides, every one thinks he's got some right. One of them is certainly wrong, and he's judging by the law. It is not prescribed by law that a concrete dispute will rule, but by general norm. This means that the judge interprets the general norm, pimps it under an individual case, and so there is a legal order. The same is true when it comes to the powers of the state authorities given under the laws to assess, and who else but the state authority will do so, has one organisation met the requirement to be registered in accordance with this law without insulting the Constitution, other laws, legal system and social order, in the broadest sense, the words understood? I think that one part of the discussion that stands in the explanation of the amendments simply when it comes to the facts that are absolutely standing, the concern in one part of that story certainly exists and we are completely dividing it, there is no difference in us in this regard. In relation to the qualifications of certain churches and religious communities, I can't say it, I didn't come out to claim it either if it wasn't, but I'm trying to explain why the proposed text is just as good as it is, so that this amendment intervention essentially doesn't make much sense in relation to the proposed text.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26122	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26123	Of course, I support Mr Milovan Radovanovic's amendment, but I must explain that when MPs vote on this amendment, they have in mind and the following, that we are on the ground defined as autonomy within the legal position of churches and religious communities, that there is a member of the 4th bill, these are so-called. Entities of corporate religious freedom, or subjects of religious freedom, as they subsequently accepted that it should be read. So it is said: The subjects of religious freedom within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organizations (hereinafter referred to as churches and religious communities). So, under the name of the church and the religious community, there are confessional communities and other religious organizations. You have not accepted our amendment that asked for Article 4 to be re-formed in terms of traditional churches and religious communities. That has to be taken care of. Furthermore, you have accepted whether our amendment, whether or not something else, matters, and deleted Article 10. It's a bill of law. Article 10 states that continuity exists, i.e. continuity is recognised with the legal entity from before. Why am I saying that? Because you formally deleted this member, but after Article 10, it was almost possible to come to a new chapter, where you list traditional churches and religious communities and as a result, within the framework of churches and religious communities, the confiscation communities go. Mr. Radovanovic requests that this provision be deleted. You've accepted one formulation of the offered three. You accepted the formulation not to state what the confessional communities are, although in their name they have the name church, but you called for the law of 1953 and 1977. In doing so, you share your opinion with Mr Radovanovic that there are some communities that have been formally reported only, nowhere is registered. You just before attacked Mr. Radovanovic for not shutting down the religious sects, so you said immediately, yes, you were not even running the register, but someone else. Now we see no one ran the register. It was just a simple application. I also remind you of our amendment to Article 8, where we talked about religious servants, priests, and those who do worship. You also tried to downplay it, but you can see for yourself that you are walking into a trap, because my goal is to trap you so that the public of Serbia can convince you that this is a paper you just want to fantasize with. Now we're going to come to chapter Registrar, where you have the wrong concept again. I must tell you, when we are in the field of human rights then, according to some views of the European Court of Human Rights and according to international documents that apply in Europe on human rights, if there is a need for something to be recorded, then applications are filed, and not applications are filed, because only the state is notified and does not ask for human rights, because human rights spring from the very fact that a man is a free man, that the Constitution guarantees him the minimum of freedom and rights. That's the problem with the concept. That's where we disagree absolutely. You did not accept the concept that came from the Constitution, you wanted to go on, you entered into something that was forbidden, to share in the first, second, third league of the church and the religious community, and now you are suffering criticism from us, which is principled according to the Constitution and you are suffering criticism from some that is not principled, but based on one utopian view of the rights of satanists and these others. When all of this is considered, and in particular Article 10, from which it is logically followed by Articles 11 to 17, which you repeat in later members of the register and in registration, it would be much better to adopt our amendment to delete Article 17. A team before, if they remain in force of the registration provision, you get the right to do so, which you think you have set up with the amendment of the Committee on European Integration. So if you really share that opinion, and I haven't heard that Mr. Radovanovic's amendment is being challenged, then it's much better if you accept that amendment and keep what you wanted by amending Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26124	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Under the name of Chapter 2 above the 18th Amendment, MP Zoran Krasic submitted. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26125	It's very simple and simple, it's not hard to understand, under Arabic 2. You've given a new chapter that says "registration." It moves with Article 18 and ends with Article 27, which has a title for the member - Oversight. What's the point? The point of all provisions from Articles 18 to 27 is in fact the way of recording. You gave it to a combined method, to imply that you regulated the registration procedure, the registration procedure, and, literally, here you show that what you call corporate religious freedoms, for the first time I heard about that term, you might have deleted the text, but that mentality, that essence and the way of thinking remained. It's funny to you, but it's sad for me, because you show that the church is a political party and that the church is a union organization, and you have prescribed for them an almost identical procedure as when the union is registered. The union is registered with Lalovic, the political party in this Stojkovic, or whoever for the state administration, it doesn't matter, and there's some thinking about changing the Constitution, and it's one of those variants that happens in one of these courts, the highest courts in our country. It is much more precise, better and more correct, from the point of view of the matter that should be dealt with by this law, that this chapter has a name - Registrar, so as to prescribe what is listed in the register to be kept with by the competent national authority. You, unfortunately, do not want that, since you obviously intend to accept, as I heard in the opening statement, a very affirmative position of the government's representatives regarding some religious organisations, which are not churches or traditional religious communities, even so affirmative that some of their colleges here are doing well, I later heard from Milovan Radovanovic that those belonging to that group in some countries were expelled because of subversive action. But that's your political attitude. A moment ago, during this debate, there was a problem, so what, something was done in 53 and 77, so someone was reported, and it wasn't a registered register, it was just a report. They were opening up to the world, so you know. Maybe not in 1953 so much, but in 1977 they opened up to the world. Ten years before that, you yourself know that Krunoslav Draganovic came to Serbia, our Introduce kidnapped him out there at Trieste, transferred him here and then told everything what the Roman Catholic Church was doing against the SFRY. Of course, he didn't go to jail, that's where he lived, there's a funeral, but it all came out. I have to tell you that these ecumenistic arrows you're sending, it's a failure, like you're missing this European integration. You would do anything for these European integrations. The same thing was done in 1977. It was also accepted that any drought could be registered and religiously functioning, it was enough just to file a report, then there were 500 applications left, it was the state's security watching on the side, sometimes it was appropriate for them, and sometimes it wasn't, they used them, they had them in their hand for some things, and who knows what was going on with them. Now you want to put some order back in the wrong way. You are opening up to the EU in another way. I have to tell you, the fact that America put pressure on Germany because it doesn't recognize any religious sect, be sure if America puts pressure on you, you'll register it. You'll have to register. Why? You follow that policy, like they did in 1977, which they allowed, come and file a report, settled. In that context, the president of Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce, he sold his house in Zemun and the entire salary to a church, gathering some there. I think when you worked and thought about the concept of this law, you had to take advantage of one of your people who was close to the Ministry of Justice and who had the opportunity to read some of the European Court of Human Rights decisions. There are 25 very characteristic examples of European Court of Human Rights decisions concerning the functioning and registration of certain churches and some sects. Based on that, you could understand what part of the state and what it could prescribe, what it was authorized to regulate. And yet I'm going back to Article 3. The bill, because I think you should have worked this out much more precisely in this law, where there is the possibility of limiting freedom of religion when it is in the interest of a state, a democratic society, to pay attention to proportionality, to the allowed procedure, to applications, registration and other details. Practice exists, something that can be drawn as a standard also exists, but the problem is that I don't see it in your bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26126	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering for a word on the same amendment? (Arsenal runs with one zero, so I forgot to put my glasses on. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment, the Committee on European Integration proposed that they be deleted. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment proposing that article be deleted. It's on article 19 you pulled. Thank you. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn at the very session of the Assembly. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26127	According to the idea and concept of the SRS, the registration of religious communities and organisations should not exist in the draft law on churches and religious communities. A fellow MP, Vojislav Milajic, from the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment that, in a member of the 19th church and religious community, would have to change, Mr. Minister, would have to change, but Mr. Milajic submitted an amendment to this article of the bill, which says "Articles 11 to 17." replace them with the words "Article 4."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26128	I'm sorry to interrupt, but maybe you weren't following, the whole article, I was just reading, the amendment was deleted, the whole member no longer exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26129	The government official agreed to delete it?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26130	Yes, the title above article 19 and article 19 are deleted. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26131	Then all right, we're looking for the same thing, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26132	Thank you for your willingness to understand each other and to clarify. The title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The representative also proposes that the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26133	The essence of the amendments to Gordana Pop-Lazic, the MPs of the SRS, is about the same as the essence of the amendments to the previous member of Mr Vojislav Milajić, because it fits into the concept and vision of the SRS that this area should be regulated, i.e. the proposal for a law on churches and religious communities. There should be no registration and registration at all, and this amendment requires that the title above Articles 20 and 20 be deleted. The Committee on European Integration has submitted an amendment and has not been accepted, is that right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26134	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26135	I didn't get that amendment, if accepted, does that mean you're a member of 20. Delete?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26136	No, it's just the 19th deletes, the 20th doesn't delete.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26137	We in the SRS parliamentary group, in line with the amendment of Gordana Pop-Lazic, are asking that this Article 20 be deleted, as we have provided for the possibility, by amendment of Mr Zoran Krasic, to introduce the Registry in the competent ministry only churches of traditional and religious communities, without the possibility of registering other religious organisations, groups or what is foreseen by the amendment of the Committee on European Integration to Article 17. Especially since Article 20 requires that the founder of a religious organisation can be at least 0.001% of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are resident in the Republic of Serbia, according to the latest official census or foreign nationals with permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is about, if we have about eight million full-aged citizens, even less, 65 full-aged citizens of Serbia are asked to register, or to apply for the registration of a religious organisation, which is absurd. Because of all this and the concept of elimination of registration, as a possibility, religious organisations, Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to this article 20. The bill is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26138	Someone about the same amendment. Here you go, Mr. Palalyc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26139	I'd like to say, this particular article of the 20th proposed law is a key member. So this member of the state shows its seriousness to settle this issue after so many years and exactly how it will protect its basic values and itself. So much here during the discussion, it has been pointed out that, on the basis of the application, a few citizens registered various associations of citizens, who later proved to be truly religious sects, harmful to morals and society, destroying families, spreading different teachings that had a destructive effect on society in general and the environment in which they worked. It is precisely the fact that a Member of the 20th State introduces a registration procedure, and starting from the fact that the Constitution guarantees religious rights and freedoms and, as defined in Article 3 of this Act, the conditions in which this registration can be carried out speak of the fact that this law is the very thing being serious and regulated. The number of members of a religious organization is mentioned here, not 65, but counting the number of full-time citizens of about 6.5 thousand, and that is one of the conditions, very precisely listed conditions that must be met by a certain church and religious community if it wants to register. It is precisely the fact that these conditions, which are tax-listed here, confronting that Article 3, where conditions for registration are generally provided for, speak of how seriously the state has approached. It will not be possible, when the competent state authority receives a request, to register various sects that have so far been able to act uninterrupted and affect our society, our youth, our family. This will no longer be possible after the registration made pursuant to Article 20. It is also very clear in Article 22, and in Article 4, the Ministry will say in what way it will react if these rather rigorous conditions are not met, and that is the fact. That's not possible so far, and that's the first time this law has ever done that story and that thing is being arranged. It is therefore important to fully understand the meaning and spirit of this law and it is not clear why this question is being moved into a very vague situation, not to see how this record will be carried out. According to us in the DSS, in this whole chapter, so Chapter Two, clearly and in a precise way, introduces and serious stories and states here demonstrates the seriousness of the situation that we had before the bill, when various sects were made on the basis of only one application that could be made in the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26140	The amendment that follows and which is accepted is detailed by the amendment proposed by the Committee on European Integration, therefore both the way and the type of enrolment, and that, consistently from Articles 20, 21 and 22, the word "application" is replaced by the word "request" so that you simply have everyone in mind when you are discussing. Following the same amendment, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and my main objection was that the word application should be replaced by a word request, and you know why, but do not fall into the trap that you have fought against the sects by this law. Because the basic question is what is the sect for you and whether each sect is a group of people to be persecuted. So when you say "sect," you have to tell me what you mean. Is that, since we've singled out traditional churches, are they all other sects? If they're not, why aren't they singled out? It's a very extensive and delicate question and I just want to tell you what's devastating for our youth. Every action outside the church, at least as acceptable to someone else, is the basis on which I base some resistance to some of the solutions in this law. You are now seeking with a request, not on application, that the founder of the organization submits the religious teaching he will study, that he agrees with the SPC, with the Roman Catholic Church, with the Jewish religious community, with the Muslim religious community, he would have no other teaching. What's the basics here? Each one of them who sets it upon himself takes the role of having a better knowledge of Christ’s teaching or of someone else. How do these branches that the church won't admit, as they did, you've had these Pentecostals before, how do they come into existence? By saying they know better about learning than they do in a real church. It's a cult to me. There's no blood in rituals, no sacrifice, no Satanism, no Christianity in theirs, and that's devastating for children. So he's going to provide you with religious learning and the minister is going to grant him registration, and that's devastating. You know, a child born in the SPC is baptized, for him every other act is devastating, each other, and it's forbidden for classical churches to kidnap believers, let alone those whom no one recognizes. Therefore, it is easy in newly populated countries, no traditions, no history, no basic faith, but everyone there, you have a church from song to song, every song a new church. That's why you're careful and careful with all this. That's why I was against the fact that by applying him, where he meets all the conditions you're asking him to, he's starting to deal with the story of faith and demand. I'd go a lot further here and a lot more seriously. He tells you to learn, behold, you have seen the new end of Judas's role in Christianity, and he now tells you, I will teach you that Judah has not sold Christ for silversmiths, and you will allow him to do so. Where do you get the right not to allow, like when there's 5,000 and some signatures? You don't say what kind of religious learning you want to admit just to dogma, which then you predict another way of thinking. Don't you realize how divided I am when I'm talking about it, and just how you're gonna fit because you're passing this law? Every teaching, therefore, you accept everyone in whom there are no express forms of satanists or other forms, absolutely forbidden in the conduct of faith, but you approve of a different interpretation of our basic faith, which is what destroys both our youth and our children. It's a different interpretation than the SPC, from the Muslim religious community. And you know, there are some in our church who say that they interpret better, please, you may not have heard, but there are people who know, I don't want to mention names so that someone doesn't call me in the paper. It's a very careful matter, and this member is the most important. You don't have to brag about registering everything, and what are you gonna register?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26142	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Well, this whole series of dilemmas was later solved, some were removed, and some weren't. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26143	We have reached Article 20, which, we must all admit, has caused a number of criticisms and objections, including those to which I am calling again, which are representatives of the international community or of those institutions that we are seeking to adapt, at least when it comes to European legislation, so the Venice Commission. I quote: "The Venice Commission considers the draft law on religious organisations too strict when it comes to the registration of religious groups," said Simon Grant, head of the Constitutional Affairs and Co-operation Department of the Council of Europe. "The principle of religious freedom, as the fundamental freedoms guaranteed in democratic societies, also applies to religious groups, and in the draft of this law the area is excessively regulated. "In particular, the indeterminate and complicated provision of item 2.point 1) of Article 20. And another quote: "When the criticisms of the Venice Commission were made on this consideration, there was also a foremark that envisioned, among other things, the signatures of 1,000 full-time citizens, members, with a home number and address. "With this information, it was necessary to deliver a dozen more different documents in order to access registration. According to the proposal, complete data are required for the establishment of a religious organisation for 0.01% of full-time Serbian citizens, according to the latest official census. It is not clear how that number will be determined. If full-time residents are required, it would be easier to determine according to the last voter's list. However, anything to be taken as data, you will agree, it will not be credible due to changes in the number and structure of the population and from the last census that was in 2002. This leaves a decision to the Ministry of Faith, which can easily lead to volunteering, making the state very involved in the work and registration of religious organisations. Because of the sudden, we consider it better to count, not by percent to determine the number of founders of a new religious organization. We propose by amendment to be in Article 20. The draft law item 1 after point 3) adds a new point 4) : "the impression of the official printing and seal". It's something that comes into the realm of technology. I don't think that's a problem for you to accept. However, you dispute this second position of our amendment, where we say: "1) a decision to establish a religious organisation with names, last names, identification numbers and signatures of at least 20 full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have residence in the Republic of Serbia or foreign citizens with permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". The conditions for registration, according to this bill's solution, I repeat once again, are controversial. The proposed solution leads to the fact that the registration of religious communities, which were never unregistered, to avoid confusion, and for whose registration in the period until the next census, I don't know when, the last one was due in 2002, it was necessary to submit 60 or 600 signatures. Practically, this requires a large number of persons to declare their religion, which is, we repeat it all day long, against the Constitution and the international documents that we most often call upon. The number would have to be established in such a way as to ensure that only those members of the religious community who would otherwise do so are placed in the position of declaring their religion. This applies first of all to the priests of certain religious communities and therefore the number of persons needed for registration should not be greater than what we propose, which is 20. Therefore, it does not need to be determined on a percentage basis, for such a provision can create certain misunderstandings. I would remind fellow MPs and ministers that we, unfortunately, have a law that is often cited here today because of a huge number, I think over 350 registered political organisations, under which only 100 signatures of full-time citizens are enough, deliver some documentation, register and register a political organisation. You will agree that the political parties and parties participating in the elections have much greater responsibility for state-leading, and for them we only need 100 signatures under the law, and now we are asking for advances from the total number of residents to register some churches that have not yet been registered. So I'm talking about some kid, I'm not talking about traditional churches. Also, the solution proposed in the law threatens to distort the equality of new religious organisations with others without the obligation to supply status, canon and other autonomous acts. This violates the principle of autonomy that is guaranteed to other religious organizations. I thought I'd tell you what we wrote. Now it's up to you whether you can go through the drafts or through something to accept the entire amendment or at least one of its parts, because there are three parts. So much so I won't bother and bother you anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26144	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. As you have heard, for the same member, another very opposite opinion, which is proof that in this discussion too, the rule of "all things in the garden of God" applies. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Ilic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26145	Of course, I can't support this with 20 citizens. Something similar was done by the Civil League of Serbia. He had Foreign Minister, National Assembly President Drago Hiber, Radmila Hrustanovic. As you can see, with less than 20, they were a strong religious sect. Of course we won't support this amendment, because this is really pointless in this concept of the law. I have to draw attention to the promoter, I get the impression that you think Stanko and Predrag Ristic are members of some religious sect. Those are the ones you arrested last night, as helpers, who are hiding Ratko Mladic. It has been announced that you, the government, have been arrested. You're the government, and they're still not arresting the MPs, they're arresting the police, and the police are part of the executive. You arrested Stank and Predrag Ristic. They are not a religious sect, even after Mr Meh Omerovic's amendment. They're not religious sects, because they're just two. I don't know why you arrested them. What are those poor bastards doing to you? You are looking for Ratko Mladic and you are arresting Serbia where you are. You're exaggerating after all. Of course, this amendment of theirs has another problem - about the seal. First, something's being built up, then it's only then that it gets the right to have a seal. According to this amendment, they make a seal first and register. It exists only in the municipality of Surcin, which was preserved by Zoran Lonchar. Came the bandits, made some new power, he accepted a forged seal. Zoran Loncar is a member of the DSS, the state administration minister and local self-government. He knows it's a falsified seal and he's accepted a forged seal. It's not just about Surchin, it's about something else. Of course, I'm using this to explain the nonsense of the seal and the number of people, not going to the other side of this amendment, because it's totally unacceptable to us, since we've submitted an amendment that we're asking for to delete this article, because this way you can't solve this thing. The concept of law is wrong. You have repeatedly pointed out from this speaker that representatives of the SRS should not be afraid that this law will be misused, that some churches and callers organisations or sects are registered to make public action. That's what you've said many times. We had the aim of this debate, among other things, of you to repeat it and inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I claim to you, knowing the character of your authority, how you operate, at the invitation of the ambassadors of several Western European states, you will register both as churches and as religious organizations even those associations, because the ambassadors of these foreign states are believers of these sects and these religious organizations. I'm not going to tell you names now, but you'll find out very soon after this law comes into force. Then I'll call you and remind you of all the things you've been saying today. Today you said you needed registration, you needed to regulate religious organizations, in order to have an insight into the whole, you found different reasons. I'm telling you, you're not going to stop them, you're going to have to register them in such a way as to legalize their actions. Let me explain, and in some groups here that appear as an association of investors from abroad, the ambassadors of individual states in Serbia-Montenegro are members of some sects, and you will have to register those sects here because you are conditioned by studies, these things, those things. It won't be any different from that 77 law you criticized. I finished my job today, because it all came out clean, so we'll see what kind of creeps both of us are. Let me remind you again. We talked to you about the mortgage law from this pay phone. Last night on TV, there was a fierce report on your television that the law was not being applied, and Parivodić swore here that a mortgage based on a building permit would be possible, no bank would hear of it. Not to quote any of the other regulations you've brought here in some way, and in practice, it's been distorted and it hasn't come to life at all. Similarly, it will happen equally with this regulation. You're not going to achieve what you're doing here, but it's going to turn into your opposite, and you're going to be putting up with a lot of pressure, so you're going to sign everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26146	Next in line with the amendment, Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to say briefly why this amendment should not be accepted on Article 20 of the Law. According to existing solutions for the registration of the Association of Citizens, let's say the registration of the Association of Fishermen requires 10 signatures, with the planned documentation that goes with it, and SDP and Bogoljub Karic believe this amendment should register a religious organisation with 20 signatures in Serbia. I think the solution to the Bill of Law of 0.001 percent of full-time citizens is excellent. This envisions about 6.5 thousand signatures collected, according to the current state of affairs in the Republic of Serbia, and this amendment would likely make religious organisations in Serbia look like mushrooms after the rain, and one of the legislators' intentions is to know exactly how many religious organisations there are in Serbia, which are their religious teachings and that they register at the state level, so that the state can build a partnership with them. On the other hand, I still have to look back at one of the thesis said from this pay phone, which is that by asking someone, if they were to participate in the application of a particular religious organization, they would violate his freedom not to give their religion. What difference does it make in disrupting freedom whether you're going to violate freedom for 20 people or for 65,000 people? It doesn't matter. If you're disrupting the individual's freedom, it's 20 or 65,000. So this amendment should not be accepted because it violates the objectives of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26148	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The title above Article 21 and Article 21 of the amendment is the mid-national MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26149	Article 21 reads: "The register cannot be entered in a religious organisation whose name contains a name or part of a name expressing the identity of a church, religious community or religious organisation already registered in the register or which has previously filed an application for registration". (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Follow what is happening on the Legislative Committee. I can't keep up with how many boards you're up to in half an hour. So this formulation is inaccurate. We suggest very clearly only one single sentence which will read: "The register cannot be entered into any more religious organizations with the same name." Very simple and understandable to everyone, even to those who don't pass laws. The explanation doesn't seem to require any special attention either, so I'll keep you for maybe not a full minute. Due to the specificity of religious organization, it is common that different religious organizations have similar names. Since there are no dangers in this area such as those in something that fellow lawyers understand better, such as economic operators or the right of economic operators, where similarity in the name of economic operators can cause adverse consequences, it is sufficient to prohibit only registration of names already entered in the register. I think our amendment is very simple, simplifying this thing, and I really don't see why you can't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26150	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26151	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, briefly. SRS MP Petar Jojic tabled an amendment to Article 22. The bill is also in spirit, in line with the view and concept of the SRS that there should be no possibility of registering religious communities other than traditional churches and religious communities. In this regard, Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the previous article 21st, as well as MPs Milan Veselinovic and Bora Kutic. I wouldn't go out if I were to especially explain every amendment, because I notice they're not in the O.R. right now. According to the SRS concept, there is no possibility of registration of churches, religious organisations and religious communities, except for the possibility of keeping a register for traditional churches and religious communities, which we have foreseen with the amendment of Zoran Krasic and the amendment of Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26152	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on European Integration. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Meso Omerovic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26153	Just to remind you, Article 22 is talking about solving the application for registration in the register. Article 4 states: ''The Ministry shall draw up a solution to refuse to register a religious organisation in the Register if its objectives, learning, rituals or actions are contrary to the Constitution and to the public order or if they endanger life, health, freedom and rights of others, children's rights, rights to personal and family integrity and property rights. ''In our opinion, Article 4 of the 22nd Law should read: ''The Ministry is making a decision on refusing to apply for the registration of a religious organisation in the Register if its objectives or actions are contrary to the Constitution, morals and public order, and are jeopardising the rights and freedoms of others. ''In paragraph 5, we propose that, following the word 'European Court of Human Rights', a point be put in place and that this further text be deleted, which reads 'as well as administrative and judicial decisions regarding the registration or operation of a particular religious organisation in one or more Member States of the European Union'. The explanation for this amendment is that we think that this solution proposed by the Government in this bill is not clear enough and precise on the one hand, and on the other hand the Ministry should not be left with the possibility that it should only assess, evaluate and evaluate the teachings and rituals, nor should it be realistic to expect that a religious organisation, when submitting its application to the register, can fully describe all the rituals it performs. For the solution we propose in paragraph 5, so to put an end to this European Court of Human Rights, because there is no basis for why domestic courts cannot even apply the practice of EU Member States' courts and administrative authorities. Religious freedom is only the basic principle of communal law, not the EU regulatory area. Therefore, there is no valid reason why domestic administrative authorities should take foreign court practice at least in this area. That's our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26154	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Meso Omerovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26155	Very short. Article 23, paragraph 2, we suggest that it be deleted. So, we propose to delete the following text: "The Register also includes information on religious schools, cultural institutions and associations, humanitarian, voluntary and health organisations whose founder is a church, a religious community or a religious organisation, as well as data on economic or other activities carried out by the church, a religious community or a religious organisation." Why do we propose to delete? In one sentence, the institutions listed in this Article 23 are legal persons and are registered in accordance with the applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26156	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26157	Dear People's MPs, we have here a bill on churches and religious communities. In fact, these are two concepts, one concept of the proposing, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and another concept of the SRS. Of course, this first one is bad, and the SRS concept is good, or best, and if you adopt these amendments, then you can count on it to improve the legal text, which is what the SRS wants. On behalf of the SRS, I have also proposed an amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a law on churches and religious communities, by proposing that in Article 23, "or religious organisations" the corresponding decline should be deleted. So this fits the SRS concept. We are against the registration of religious organizations, for the reason that this registration of religious organizations can open up a space for the legal functioning of religious sects, which have historically been against the SPC, against the state and which have poisoned our youth. So, they mostly acted destructively, acted against the church's interest and also most often associatively. So these religious sects not only don't have to register, but they shouldn't exist. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26158	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26159	Yes, and this amendment applies to the section concerning registration. The amendment requires the removal of Article 24, in accordance with our concept of which we have brought really many things out today. But now let's see what ground we're in. In the field of religious organizations, based on the existence of a doctrinal theological attitude that differs from what the traditional church or religious community preaches. Now we're really in the field of big trouble. If we take my favorite theme of the Roman Catholic Church, it's called, created by two great historical lies, the minister will confirm this to me because we probably read the same books. Even the Vatican historians confirmed that it was two of the greatest historical lies. One of those historic lies is Constantine's gift. You won't find any bishop, cardinal or any high-ranking Roman Catholic Church who won't call on Constantine's gift, and it's been proven that it doesn't exist. The second great lie, or perhaps first, that the Pope is a deputy, that the tomb of St. Peter is in Rome. St. Peter was never in Rome, proved to be never in Rome. They're holding some of the coffins there. They're showing something. You know, and then now that someone's out there separating themselves from them and those lies, some man can figure it out. So with the very story of churches, religious communities and religious organisations, and the need to regulate their legal status, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has entered an area that must not be subject to this law, because it has absolutely nothing to do with religious freedoms. Nor can the church be seen as a collectiveity or as a community, and especially I have to add another sentence here, since in one of the following members of the bill you are also talking about forms of positive discrimination. All that talk of yours is a confession that you entered into something that couldn't have been the subject of this law. So I suggest you either accept these amendments, or simply withdraw this law from the procedure. Be assured that far greater damage will be to this law and to this law than to the present state, because you will legalize everything that has not existed in us so far. It's not legalized, there's been a complaint, there's a report standing somewhere, there's no registration, there's only a kindness to close your eyes to something, but you ministers will have to close your eyes, and even if you sign something, I guarantee it. Live and see, when this law comes into force, five ambassadors will invite you to ask why his religious sect is not registered in Serbia. If I draw your attention now to some bankers operating here from abroad, it's for our special story, and don't be surprised if after a few months and someone from the government says it's a good idea to sign it up to the ministers, because the state is going to get so much money for that and that investment. Take care, I think you've misunderstood the amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26160	On the occasion of the amendment, Dusan Prorokovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26161	First of all, I'm threatening a guy's findings -- this is good, this is evil. Only in Spanish series there's only good and only evil, so it was crystal evil, and Alexis was good, or something like that, when it was Dynasty. Politics and political life are different from Dynasty, and there is nothing that is only good or only evil. I don't see what's controversial in Article 24, because it's about erasing from the Register. Quite logical and consistent with previous members of the law, this is when a church or a religious community ceases to work, or when it is denied the right to work on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. First, if the community wants it itself, if the number of believers falls below the prescribed minimum or ceases the need for the work of the religious community, both second and third, which directly concerns what we listen to all day, which is that the law may allow the legal-formal definition of religious sects, i.e. their entry into our legal order. Therefore, Article 24(3) states that the religious organisation will be denied the right to act if it achieves objectives other than those for which it is established, it is directly related to religious sects and paraverine organisations, which can be written in the statute by one or more of their founding documents, and if they do something else, they will be deleted from the register, and secondly, if the reasons for which the registration is refused. The reasons for refusing to register are, Article 3, paragraph 2, if the right to live, the right to health, children's rights, the right to personal and family integrity, if the right to property is compromised and religious, racial and national intolerance is encouraged. So there is nothing controversial about this article, and this is exactly one of the mechanisms to prevent religious sects from entering, or registering them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26162	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Momir Markovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26163	I am delighted to learn that Mr. Prophetovich is watching Spanish series and that he is the only one who sees what is good and what is evil. Mr. Prophetovich, there's much more good and much more evil, and it's not in those Spanish series. This much better is the SPC and its thousand-year tradition. These are more evil religious sects, which we have been discussing for 10 hours, to prove to you that because of the indeterminate nature of certain members of the law, because of the misrepresentation of certain members of the law, because of the arbitraryness that these members leave behind, you will have registered sects the next day, and those with the most rigid behavior. Of course, no sect is going to sign up to be satanic, not to write down the rituals, nor is she the sect that forced that young man a few years ago, the disciple of St. Sava's school, and if you find her writings, notes, you won't find that she lists her believers, she states children to suicide. In that sect, in the jungle, which 150 and a few people committed collective suicide, probably not in their statutes or what they call those papers, it doesn't say that now that they pick up to 150 it's peaceful, and when they pick up so much, collective suicide. The bottom line is, this law allows for the registration of those whose place is not with SPC, the Roman Catholic Church and these five other recognized churches, i.e. three more churches and two other religious communities. That's the point. About good and bad, don't be in Spanish shows, you have better ways to find out what's good and what's bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26164	Replica, Dusan Prophetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26165	I don't watch that show, I just wanted to do one thing in detail to make the discussion more relaxing, but it doesn't matter. Don't defend the church from her yourself. The SPC people participated in the writing of laws, as well as representatives of some other churches and religious communities, gave their suggestions. I haven't heard that their opinion is negative about this law. No church dignitary I spoke to had any objection to this law, not even had representatives of some of the other religious communities I had talked to in the last few days. It concerns people from religious communities who define themselves in this law to traditional religious communities. It is in Article 24 that the work of all these sects you have listed is disabled. I really don't see what's controversial in this Article 24. If someone in the statute writes that he is engaged in religious preaching, if he says what his teaching is, what is his dogma, and he deals with all other things, he is deleted from the register and is transferred to the authority of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior, other security institutions in this country, to sanction the way he works.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26166	Replica, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26167	What Mr. Prophetkovic said is devastating. First of all, I don't believe anyone from the SPC took part in this bill. Secondly, I don't believe it, and if you found someone to participate, I don't believe that with the blessing of Patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul. I'm sure some of them were involved, so I'm guessing from these other religious organizations, so maybe they're okay with it because they've had unregistered sects so far, and after this law, they'll be registered. There's one more thing, knowing that a good part of this government is kleptocrat, and I don't think about you, Minister, I mean those other ministers who stole everything alive, but I'm not sure there's anyone in your ministry who's going to be a clerk, and you're not going to be able to do it because you're not going to be able to do it, who's going to be a clerk and who's going to be a briefcase, and the case has become a figure, become a price, a rule of conduct, and registering some satanic, of course, under another name, but to allow her to do business in Serbia as she pleases. So, Mr. Prophetovich, I apologize for having to come out, but this SPC thing, the SPC's participation in this, it just surprised me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26168	Word came from Minister Radulovic, Donka Banovic first, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26169	Dear People's MPs, I will refer to what the predecessor said, a distinguished colleague, who said he suspected that churches and religious communities participated in writing the bill. And how the Orthodox Church participated together with other churches and with some religious communities. Many times, even from your party, people today talked about there were as many as four omens. So this has changed and agreed, and this is a proposal that has also been made, that is, done together with churches and religious communities. That's one thing. All day long, they talk to each other about how sects erupt in Serbia, how they must be put to rest. I've been waiting all day for someone to say they're actually fighting the sects. It would be great if we had an amendment and now we have an amendment that says in the article, we forbid the existence of sects. Would that solve the existence of a sect? I'm asking you essentially. How one society fights against the existence of sects. Let's submit to the amendment that the minister accepts where to write, we forbid the existence of sects, and that solves the problem. We haven't solved the problem at all. We need to talk about the essence. In Serbia, there are 250 destructive sects, with horrifying rituals, where young people learn how to commit suicide, destroy families, destroy young people. You need to talk essentially. We're not gonna end them whether there's gonna be anything registered or not. It will exist. Society must fight in a different way. Let's raise our young so they don't become the prey of these people. This is done in such a way that three or four years ago, among other things, a subject of religion has been introduced, where we guard our young beings so that they do not become prey and victims of any and all kinds of sects. Secondly, as one colleague also said, the minister will get a call from an ambassador, so he will be asked to register the sect. Please, whether this minister, or future, I must believe that the next minister of religion will be a serious and responsible man, and that this will be a serious and responsible state. I guess he can answer those demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26170	The MP Markovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26171	An esteemed colleague told one truth, to cultivate young ones, to be raised in the spirit of Orthodoxism if we are Orthodox, in the spirit of religion that their parents are celebrating. You're quite right about that. However, prevention should not allow these sects, which we have been talking about all day, to be registered. You're registering a cult, and on the other hand, you're saying to Mr. Markovic, raise your child so he doesn't fall under the influence of the cult. One more thing, the fight against the sect is very simple, if it is not registered, then Minister Jocic has a job, or his service. If it is registered, then it will hide and wrap its activity for a long, long time, until it comes into a situation that either Minister Jocic is working again or is deleted from the register here. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26172	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26173	Yeah, it's late. I think you've been given a list of all churches and religious communities, organizations and everyone who's commented on the law and participated in writing. Of course, the most commentary and reading was in SPC. That's understood. The Bishopial Conference of the Roman Catholic Church, all bishops, all three Protestant churches, every diocese – do you believe that every version of it has received every diocese, or bishop, all of it. You may have read in the paper that last year's Parliament appointed a committee of four respected men, four bishops sitting together (wait, explain how the procedure was). So we're not any theocratic state, we're not people whose church writes laws. We are a normal government that when it adopts the law on churches and religious communities invites everyone to say what they have and to agree with everyone. That's why the public hearing lasted a year and a half. This commission, appointed by the Parliament, has referred to Sinodou that the draft is in order. Only when we came to these relevant views, and the views of the Bishop's Conference, and the Islamic community, and the Jewish community, did I propose the law to the government. So much so, the truth works, that we don't misinformed ourselves in these late hours. Mr Krasic, who doesn't know how this procedure went, will now explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26174	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26175	It's not cultural for you to leave, to read to you what you said some procedure was done. I'm not a fan of public discussion and debate, that's what I have to tell you. You, Mr. Minister, received a letter on 16 April this year to read to you, as you forgot what was written: "Dear Mr. Minister, you are aware of the unanimous position of all the traditional churches that operate in our country that before discussing the proposal for a law on churches and religious communities in the Serbian Assembly (runs) it is necessary once again to consult between you and representatives of traditional churches and achieve full agreement between the Ministry of Religion and traditional churches on the text of the proposed law. Since the bill will be on the agenda of the Assembly tomorrow, so that we no longer have time for these consultations, we gratefully accepted your proposal that the final text of the proposal, acceptable to all traditional churches, be delivered to you before the assembly session, in order for you to install the necessary amendments and additions into the text of the government amendments to the bill." I'm not going to read any further, I'm just going to explain to you that this version that's been agreed with representatives of traditional churches, the text mentions the commission, etc., just before the bill was passed, and they were amazed that what was agreed on, a completely different version was given, and that's why the Minister was contacted on 16 April. Now, Mr. Prophet, to hear their stand. In the end, not to read, it's a long letter. "If, God forbid, do not accept any of the three offered exits from a trap called the registration of everyone and everyone, we are regretfully forced to declare to you that such a law of the traditional church for principle reasons, and above all for reasons of conscience, cannot and will not accept. In this case, we ask for the bill to be withdrawn immediately from the assembly procedure and then processed, processed and improved, and then returned to the National Assembly's agenda in due time." Now they give some of their personal disappointment to the character and part of the minister, who tells them one thing, the other here, the third public. Please, it was signed by the bishop of grandmothers for the traditional Christian churches in Serbia, by authority, so it's not one bishop's position, it's one who's authorized on behalf of all traditional churches operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They negotiate with each other because they are faced with the same problem the government created for them. Traditional churches face that problem. Something they adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26176	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on European Integration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26177	Article 25 refers to what you called a legal remedy, which is the possibility of having a administrative dispute before a competent court. It is currently the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia in respect of a solution on registration, rejection of registration applications, refusal of registration or erasure of registration, etc. Now let me tell you, we have submitted the amendment for purely principled reasons, since we disagree with the concept offered here, but I will tell you how it will be in practice, in the application of this article. In the application of this member of the Council for Administrative Disputes of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, your resolutions will be annulled and judgments will be brought on the case under which the administrative dispute is being initiated, where this solution is annulled, so if you continue three times to do so, it is not excluded that the Supreme Court in the administrative dispute in the metrics is to resolve and order the entry of a particular religious sect. Why? I'm distracting you again in advance why. Because in these transitional times, our judges are going into training and getting acquainted with the views of the European Court of Human Rights. If you had told me that you were going to do something like this, I would have brought you literature, that's one 20kg of material, there's one in the Supreme Court, there's one at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there's one book in these NGOs, Natasa Kandic, one book with the views of the European Court of Human Rights's case law, and you'll see that the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia will more adhere to these legal principles that are contained there than this law. You won't be able to stop the registration because you opened Pandora's box. So with these registration provisions, you opened Pandora's box. I'm not going to explain it further because you know that there are these reasons, but I expect some answers as to why these two men are arrested, when they are not members of any religious sect, just because someone suspected that they are in some relationship with Ratko Mladic, which is not to the honor of this government, Vojislav Kostunica, who apparently wants to say by this law that she has made the SPC, that by something different from others. And finally, let me just draw your attention to one more thing. And as minister, you also had to monitor the activities of dignitaries of churches, who act and worship in the Republic of Serbia, what their actions are when they go abroad. Here in the Roman Catholic Church, there is one who manages this organisational work in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which, when it goes abroad, puts fire to the celebration of January 27th in Serbia. Why St. Sava is a student of fame and how it reflects some cleronationalism in Serbia, it's just the one tableing here on behalf of the Roman Catholic Church. You know, he had a big dispute, and why? Because the public in Serbia, someone interested in these actions, found out what he was saying about the Holy Sava and found out about his opposition to what St. Sava was a student's glory, and even went so far as to divide Serbia into two parts, so he said, perhaps in Kragujevac it could be celebrated, but why in Vojvodina. That, of course, is part of the freedom of a church, because it's separate from the state and you don't have any greater influence, you don't even have the opportunity to make any principled remarks. However, all religious communities and all churches operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia must respect the democratic and world power of the Republic of Serbia. If that's not the case, then we bring the law for free, we bring everything for free. I already draw attention to the fact that someone under the head of a church, a religious community, and otherwise acts subversively against the state and the people. I'd just draw your attention, probably on the globe of the Earth there is no one, except for us, that thanks to Djindjic and Bogoljub Karic, a man who has declared himself Mufti, some are expressing suspicion that he has even graduated from their schools, the rector of some university, not the University of God. That there are two shootings in the university building, both downstairs and in the basement. On the ground floor, they train those who have money to pay for ammunition and shoot that show they planned, and the one in the basement is the one they chose. You should know that there is a great dissatisfaction of older people, honest believers, who are being kicked out of the mosque. You can't stop it, and I'm not asking you to stop it, but I'm asking you to take it into consideration. What else do I ask of you? To take advantage of your position and ask Mr. Jocic to finally solve the question of the murder of the Munitlak family in Novi Pazar.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26178	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this very moment, there are two ladies MPs, and first I wanted to express my regret, that I am saddened that there are none of them but the Committee on European Integration has accepted my amendment. Minister, let me ask you something, do you believe all this stuff you've been saying? It won't be that our amendments that we've submitted are all in style -- deleted, but there have been quality proposals. Of course, since we have different concepts, there have been amendments that suggest that certain members be deleted. I noticed something else when the MPs of the SRS, explaining their amendments, raised certain doubts, and believe that they were people with good experience in this area, you say everything, and you and fellow MPs, mostly from the DSS, Miloljub Albianic was not present until this moment, you say, no, it won't be so. I'm afraid you're taking this thing lightly, we're suggesting it might be so based on some experiences. Now my amendment says Article 26 is deleted. Of course, it is deleted because it fits into the concept of these several amendments relating to the register. We have suggested that Section Two, where the registration stands, says "Register" and that traditional churches and religious organizations be entered in the register and put an end to it. When fellow Prophetovic explained why the ministry was making a decision to delete from the Register, and my amendment also refers to the property after the erasure of churches and religious communities, he counted here when it was deleted from the register, and if this concept had passed, I had nothing to object to Mr. Prophetovic, that would be so. But we don't want it to stay like this, but we suggest that this member be deleted, and he says, "The property of the church, the religious community or the religious organisation that has been deleted from the register is properly subject to the rules on associations." So, no erasing traditional churches, they've already survived and outlived everything. It's a concept. Whether you like it or not, that's another thing. Therefore, the property would not be at all controversial, if one subject exists, he has his own property and we have no dilemma there. Someone said we were taking care of the church. Of course we're worried. We defend the church from it ourselves. No, we're not doing that. The church, Orthodox, of course other churches, we respect it, they can take care of themselves, but the state needs to help them, the state and church relationship should be regulated, and it's all something that's good. In your explanation, you said that the current laws were short-lived, were in effect as long as a state or social system lasted. I fear this law will not last so long, but it will last for this congregation. It could take much longer if these amendments were accepted. None of the speakers of the SRS said this matter should be regulated. Today and in principle, we argued about what was introduced into this law, and in no way did we say that this law was not to be passed. Even colleague Milovan Radovanovic, today my colleague, and at some point yours, showed that the SRS had a working version and a good will to pass such a law, of course, with a different concept, of what we are defending today and now. Of course it would be a lot easier for you. I fully understand your position. That's why I asked if you believed everything you told us. On a few occasions you went out and the SRS ambassador explained those amendments, do you believe that's how it's going to be. I know you have hot potatoes in your hand and it's hard to live with. You have seen that the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in principle gave quite a good view and said, as your relationship with the amendments of the SRS MPs will be, so will our relationship in the day of voting. He's become clear now. I guess that's not good. It would have been a lot easier for you if you'd accepted most of the amendments. We did not insist that everyone be accepted, but in principle it was known which amendments were to be accepted. One colleague said that they were one to be a liberal attitude, the other to be a little more radical, so this is one golden environment. This law is not like that people's "when there's no rain, there's a good city." This is one serious thing, where everything proposed by the SRS should be accepted and that would be a good thing. Minister, God help you, we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26180	According to the amendment, MP Momir Markovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26181	Now we come up with one thing that's already been seen. First, Article 26 says: "The property of a church, religious community or a religious organisation that has been removed from the register is accordingly subject to the rules on associations. "You SPC can't erase, and if her property was taken away, it was already seen. And King Alexander took away the property of the SPC and bare it to the end, and then Tito picked up the rest, so the SPC laid down to this day, and today the tavors. Its property is now spreading to the Cypriots in Kosovo. To return just for a moment to the previous member, you say you won't register religious communities that act, etc. For example, the Satanic sect is already very much working in Serbia. You know what their features are: either they play in the cemetery, or they turn the cross upside down, or they blow into balloons when someone dies. I think you can immediately solve the problem with the Satanic sect and with the members of that sect should Jocic discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26182	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26183	It's a good thing the G17 joined us. As soon as the assets and finances came to order, here they are in the Serbian Parliament. Article 28 is now talking about property. We have proposed an amendment replacing the "own autonomous regulations" in paragraph 2 with "law". Therefore, Article 2 should read as follows: "Churches and religious communities are self-managing their assets and assets, in accordance with the law." Therefore, the argument is that the autonomy of religious organisations in the area of property rights cannot go against the applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26184	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. Since the Government and the Committee on European Integration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic, who subsequently withdrew the amendment. The MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26185	We suggest that in Article 31st century 2, 3rd and 4, the social rights of priests, or religious officials, are deleted. In the proposed positions of Article 31, which we propose to delete, which are art. 2, 3 and 4, they're talking about funding, it's coming from the census, which, in fact, determined the confessionality. The list did not ask whether you believed in God. You will all agree with me and with the argument that it is necessary to distinguish between religion and confessional membership, because according to the government's proposal and the reasoning they gave on this bill, 95% of Serbian citizens are believers. Even counterpart Kojcic said at one point that the percentage was 98%. Simply, research done by the relevant institutions of the Serbian state says there are 20% religious, 31% atheists and 77% so-called. Christian atheists, i.e. those who are Christians just because they belong to a nation, and what someone, according to this list that I mentioned, automatically connected as if they were believers. One of the research done in preparation and in the debate, here I agree with the minister that a comprehensive working debate has been conducted, that the seventh version that has come before MPs is not a version that has been coordinated by representatives of traditional churches is a problem that the minister will have to explain in the future, I suppose to traditional churches, but in this particular public debate, research has been done in one of the districts of our state of Serbia, in the Branič district, in which you will agree that there are indeed many members of traditional churches. But what those studies showed in Branicov, I am sorry that Mr. Arsic is not here or someone from Branic's district, only two percent of respondents said he confessed to the faith and four percent to honor. Now the next position we propose to delete also refers to what we consider to be some kind of financial discrimination between churches and religious communities, because traditional churches are exempt from paying taxes. Funding should take place according to the population list we were just talking about. A statement of creed is not mandatory. You know that, and everyone who reads both the Constitution and our laws, and it is not according to the Constitution, nor by any law a declaration of the belonging of a particular church. That is why we think that this second, third and fourth position, of six, should be deleted because priests and religious officials are not government officials to whom contributions are paid out of budget funds. Since it is possible to provide social security under the PIO rules in case of age over the so-called “PIO”. pension plans, I think it is essential to foresee the possibility of establishing specific funds in this way, as proposed in these views, in the form of religious organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26186	Anyone else by amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26187	Article 32. We propose that attitude 1 be changed and that it reads: "In carrying out the activity of the regular management of goods, which has been declared a cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, the church and the religious community can be fully or partly exempt from tax and other obligations, in accordance with the law." After Article 1, we propose a new position 2 which reads: "Laws which prescribe the possibility of tax and other obligations should not be violated by the principle of equality between churches and religious communities". If you accept this, attitude 2 would become attitude 3. The explanation is very simple and simple. This amendment is in fact precise and prevents possible abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26188	Anyone else? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Having accepted the amendment by the proposer, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26189	Before I refer to the amendment to Article 34(1), in which we propose to delete the point after the bracket and add the words "in accordance with the law", and paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 are deleted, allow me a briefer review and in this Article 33, which has now been modified through the Committee on European Integration, has received some other content. What that Article 33 provides in paragraphs 4 and 5 for religious rituals to be carried out in schools, hospitals, military and police facilities, social and childcare institutions, criminal sanctions institutions and other institutions and facilities is to be challenged by the principle of separation of the church from the state, which is provided for in Article 41. The Serbian Constitution, since it thus allows for the presence of churches and religious organisations in institutions that assume and symbolize the state. How to interpret this from the position of someone who can still be more measured and realistic about what this is about. I'd like to try to quote the "Mother of Serbs" dictionary. It's called worshiping is the service of God in church. What does that mean? Every church has its own ritual. What you're saying is, no altar, no cross, no icon and no bell, no worship. You can't move the church to barracks like the government is proposing, because then why the churches are even building. The church is sacred. That's why it's called the Blasphemy because it's sacred. If this worship can be done in barracks and schools, then these barracks themselves would have to be some kind of chapel or church, as the modern people say. However, worship outside the church has been profaned in this way to more banish the spirituality than the sincere intention of the promoter. Article 34, we propose that these views be deleted, because churches and religious communities should be free to decide on certain religious objects, by having to respect the applicable regulations in building objects. The construction of these facilities should be carried out under the general legal regime. What is very controversial and what is really worth mentioning when it comes to this matter in Articles 33 and 34, which is the religious activity in these institutions that someone, whether or not, wanted to admit it or not, has and how they relate to the state, because you will allow both schools, hospitals, military and police facilities, social and children's protection, an institution for the execution of criminal sanctions a couple of excellencies in some way and state institutions. What could be some kind of danger, if someone didn't misread me, thinking that the word was a difficult word, is that if we left that right to the authority of the local self-government, then we could come into a situation that I'm going to show in the case of the municipality of Novi Pazar, that someone wouldn't misread me, not because of the latest events, but because of the structure of the population and the structure of the religion, and those who confess their faith, where about 80 percent belongs to the Islamic religious community, and over 20 percent of the members of the SPC. This is how you introduce the possibility of worshiping in all these institutions that we have mentioned, that I do not now state them again. What can happen? Something could happen that the legislator didn't take care of. The worship of the SPC, the Roman Catholic, in the Jewish community is very clear to both the people and how well known. In worshiping in the Islamic community, it is known that it is done five times a day, that is what those who are believers do. I'm not a believer, it's my right, but I know very well that five times a day worship is done. Now you can assume that in one of these institutions, which I mentioned in that same New Market, now with the full right of the teacher, teacher or all or some even councillors at SO Novi Pazar say - you know what, here's the first break, we go to worship, then the second, and then the third, and so on and so on five times a day, and you put those institutions and the users of these institutions into a blockade. I don't know how the Ministry and the Proposer didn't take care of it. So I don't want to believe that we can get into a practical problem. What will happen if a particular kindergarten or establishment of childcare in Novi Pazar, since the relationship of a member of the faith is such that most decide to apply what the legislator allows them to do. You'll have a blockade. So I don't think there's enough going on here. Minister, I'm glad you're back. I don't know what changes you mean. That's it, and you owe me an answer, if you followed me closely at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26190	Thank you. Of course, you'll get the word, Mrs. Donka, please here and equality and gentlemen work at the same time. The equality of the messengers and the equality of the natives. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26191	The Honorable Chairman, the MPs, since there are three women in the room, it's not hard for you to be a gentleman, and that kind of gender equality, that's what we're going to do when we adopt the law, then you're going to have to respect everything. Mr. Omerovic has actually read Article 4's point of view: ''The worship and religious rituals can also be performed in schools. ''I'm going to stand there right now because there's been a lot of talk about this attitude, so there's a lot of talk on the Committee on European Integration itself about what's going on right now. Please, I can't believe you don't know, when it comes to schools, that even now and in the past, certain rituals have been performed in schools. When it's school glory, directors or collectives invited a priest to come and cut the cake and when it's school day, there's usually some other religious holidays, so this isn't the introduction of anything we don't already have in practice. There's even some order, so that's where the procedure is now in order. So, at the invitation of a certain institution comes the priest in that given institution. I'm not going to explain at all why it takes a certain ceremony or that the priest is present in the hospital, in the barracks, etc. You just have people, and practice is like that already, this is the introduction of some order and the legislation of the already existing state. I don't want to explain why people are sick, and in hospitals are people who are sick, why they sometimes don't all say it, but sometimes someone needs to be a priest. Now Mr. Omerovic said it is complicated when it comes to the Islamic Community because it is necessary to perform a certain ceremony five times a day. Excuse me, Mr. Omerovic, if there is a need in this institution to do so, I think there must be a way for everyone to pray to God in the way that it is intended for his faith and religion. I don't see anything controversial about it, and I don't see that there's going to be any congestion in the work. You specifically listed the municipality of Novi Pazar. I think if they had a lot of other problems, if they had given God maybe these rituals and performed, they'd probably get along a little better right now, there'd be a little more tolerance, since you've already mentioned that community.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26192	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. You're staying? No, I don't. On request, go ahead. By amendment, and you are (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am Tomislav Nikolic. No, no, please, please, Mr. Nikolic, just a moment. You wanted a replica, but it is not disputed I have already given the word to Mr. Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26193	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't agree with an argument that justifies school worship, and that's really one problem to think about. First, you have environments that are multinational. Next, you say children's protection institutions of worship. For who? For employees or for children? You're just full of concepts, broadly, everywhere you can. What did you mean when you said that worship could be conducted in schools, what did you really mean? How are they going to do it in school, in classes, on vacations, with children for worship, or with teachers and with teachers? It doesn't say anything. You have brought children to school to teach them, and believe that you teach them, and with that I am fully consensual, but you are instituting worship, and I would like you to explain to me what you mean by worship, which all rituals mean by worship. Don't let it turn into the service of God's different churches from one minute to the next, from one hour to the next. You've got multinational environments in the departments, what's gonna happen to the other kids. He'll be out of class while the worship is being done. I am for chapels and barracks and hospitals, and anyone who needs to look for God there. Serving is something else. It can go into another form. Did you clear those terms? Furthermore, there's no sanctions for anyone who doesn't make it possible, absolutely none. You've even predicted that if he thinks he has options, if he estimates that he has options, if he doesn't, there's no such thing as that. The head of the facility assesses whether he has options. Do you want worship, then the possibilities must be created. It is not a question of whether there will be possibilities, but must be created. We're turning the childcare facility into a place where worship can be done, a room is created. You don't mean in the rooms where the regular work is performed, too. If there are two or three employees, worship. Will they bring the children they guard for worship? And what if he falls into that watch, at that hour, and he's at work. Do you know all religions, do you know what worship is like in religions that are represented? (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: Teach us.) I'm not gonna teach you, AliGrudic, and be a little polite. And don't let me tell you now why you're throwing, why you're not controlling yourself. You'd better shut up. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Let's hear it.) You're drunk, man.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26194	Please, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26195	Well, let the president bring a balloon to blow.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26196	Please, I have no intention of bringing anything, let anyone who wants to, who doesn't have to. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26197	It doesn't make sense, I'm serious. I'm not challenging in any way, and we can do it differently. Okay, I'm drunker than you. Let's get his head up here and go straight. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Yaooo, old joke.) Here's a line, come on, but don't say vertigo's bothering you. So I'm really trying to be serious, to draw your attention to what's going on, and you're throwing it at me. That's fine. Let's move on now, let's move on to political debates. Shall we talk about the churches of political debate? It's the easiest thing for me to do for you, Mr. Aligrudic, and now, it's the easiest thing for me, in this state where you're the easiest for me. I'm ashamed. Tomorrow morning, when you sober up.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26198	Please, of course you'll be right, just a moment. So, he reported on the replica of MP Omerovic, MEP Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure, reported on an amendment by MP Albianic. Please don't use each other in any way, especially this congregation. We defend the dignity of the congregation. Please give up now, please, I've just responded to the Rules of Procedure, if not, please, five minutes to seduce the order. Five minutes break. [[After break – 23:30]] Ladies and gentlemen, the full order has been established. The right to replicate against the presentation of MP Donka Banovic, MP Meko Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26200	I am sorry that Donka's dear colleague is not here right now, but apparently, as the chairman said, the order has been established, because only representatives of opposition parties are in the room, with a few exceptions, which I welcome with respect, from the DSS, but well, that's the Assembly after all. All provisions of this law relate to the request of members, whether they refer to Article 33 or to a referendum on local contributions in Article 34, as well as to a voluntary system of local taxes for certain purposes. These provisions can lead to bias, ministers, in favour of the dominant local church and discrimination against local minorities, as most of them may impose a contribution on the minority in some of the municipalities on the territory of our state of Serbia. Therefore, there is nothing here that could draw attention to what was in the presentation of my colleague and I didn't talk about it at all, nor was it my intention. I purposely wanted to point out problems that could occur, not only about worshiping in health care institutions, but first of all about funding. We can really get into a situation where in a municipality where 20 members of a religion, without any possibility of affecting anything, these 80% decide on a self-delivery that has to do with an object, and that community, for example, fails by a thousand or three hundred more important issues, but that was also proposed. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26201	There are, of course, problems that arise because the Rules of Procedure foresees the exact order of amendments, the minister gives clarification, so we often read the amendments that have already foreseen such a solution in the next amendment and it has become an integral part of the bill, so please simply compare it so that there is no discarding, there is no reason in any way. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 34th amendment. Having adopted the amendment by a representative of the proposings and the Committee on European Integration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was withdrawn by MP Alexander Lazarevic. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslava Gusic. Since the Government and the Committee on European Integration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26202	Article 37 has the title - Establishment of educational institutions according to general regulations. He begins with the words "Church and religious communities". Today, I have repeatedly made it clear that, under churches and religious communities, what is stated in Article 4. Bills, which are traditional churches, religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organizations. That's how the government defined it as churches and religious communities. Three groups, traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organizations clearly differ. Their common name or synonym for all of them is churches and religious communities. "Churches and religious communities can also establish preschools, primary schools, high school, professional and artistic high schools, universities and universities, in accordance with the law. ''It's probably meant by the laws that regulate these actions, which is the Law on Education. What were we looking for with the amendment? We asked for an amendment to supplement this article, to add two new attitudes. First: "Only citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have residence on its territory can be appointed to the teaching and other staff of educational institutions of the 1st term, the church and the religious community. ''Second: A foreign citizen may teach in the educational institutions referred to in Article 1 on the basis of the prior consent of the competent ministry to be issued at the request of a church or a religious community'. Of course, we have made contact with our amendment that we have submitted to Article 8. The bill, where we also asked for two new positions to be added: performing religious rituals and handling churches, our citizens; if it is a foreign citizen, who is to perform religious rituals or to be an elder of a church or a religious community or of an organisational work, requires prior consent from the competent ministry. It is not about the autonomy of the church and the religious community, but about foreign citizens, given that for persons it is about action, it is about consent as is necessary for all foreigners when they do some other work with us. During the debate, we have repeatedly potentiated an example of what happened to one of our bishop SPCs who was destined to be a bishop abroad. For a year, he waited to receive an appropriate permit from the foreign government so that he could take over the post there and perform the duty of the minister of the SPC. So, those who were afraid of reciprocity, I'm just telling them that other countries are applying it to the SPC. I don't know why our country wouldn't apply that to strangers. This is about the educational process and again what causes fear, that's what you stated in Article 4 in brackets, where you've put traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organizations, which can be interpreted as sects, under one concept of church and religious community, and unless the state in that educational process is asked in some way, and you're avoiding it, then you're practically leaving the educational process to something that can later be a big surprise, because it's going to fit the staff for some sects that are going to act destructively, to act with some positions, where you're going to read again Article 3. Today we had an exercise here as the DSS representatives read Article 3(1) and (2). It's a bill of law. It's no dam for you, a team before in this law and when you say something's forbidden, you don't foresee any sanctions. If you are referring to general rules of criminal responsibility for something that cannot be done and done, I must tell you that you have a weak vision. Why? Today you have convinced us all day that the law of 1953 and 1977, where 500 applications have been filed and virtually nothing has been described, has just been received, has not prevented some from acting destructively and from performing their rituals in a way contrary to the civilization's achievements of a modern society. Since the snake burns and the lizard is afraid, we believe that by accepting our amendments, this text is as much a result of its seriousness as it is, and the application of what we propose is practically another check before something is decided, i.e. to accept the decision of the church and the religious community. The process of obtaining this consent, and you know it, implies elemental control, because if there is no such thing, it is possible that very dangerous types train children and are involved in this educational process of religious educational institutions, and that later you realize that a major mistake has been made. We need to check who's going to prepare these future priestly staff for these churches and religious communities that we've been telling you about today. Mr. Milovanovic even told you which state banned what. You have no intention of controlling anything here. Of course you forbid it, you can't even think about it. So that model reading of Article 3 paragraph 2 is practically one panel that spins without its specific weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26203	First came MP Momir Markovic. He hasn't spoken in a long time, him first, so if there's any time left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I will read Article 4 of the corporate religious freedom within the meaning of this law are traditional churches and religious communities, confessional communities and other religious organizations, as they will say, and religious sects, in the further text of the church and the religious community. Having leveled the sects with article 4, they were separate, and packed them into a church corps and a religious community, we came to Article 8, where we asked them to act exclusively for the citizens of Serbia. If anyone on the side comes to act in worship, he must have the minister's application and consent. In Article 37, it is much more important that this amendment be adopted - for the teaching and other staff of educational institutions under Article 1 of this Article, the church and the religious community can only be appointed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have their residence on their territory, and that foreign citizens can teach in educational institutions under Article 1 of this article on the basis of the prior consent of the competent ministry that they issue at the request of a church or religious community. Who will be a member of these schools, preschools, high school schools, colleges and all that you foresee in Article 37. It is said that churches and religious communities can establish preschools, primary schools, gymnasiums, professional and artistic high schools, universities and universities, in accordance with the law. Who will be the ones who will gain knowledge in those schools. Citizens of this country, our children or children of our colleagues, neighbors, friends, depending on where anyone lives. It is normal, then, for their teaching to be conducted by the citizens of this country, and if someone comes from foreigners to have to be registered in the ministry and from the ministry's competent service to get consent. So you wouldn't happen if Sai Baba got stuck in one of these schools. So it doesn't happen that these mundanes who pass by come and teach part-time. So that when you come and arrest one of the spies, you find him teaching or one of these schools that are organized or, God forbid, at the university, and away from the preschool to be. Ladies and gentlemen, come on the day after tomorrow when voting day, I call first of all to the gentlemen of the ruling part of Parliament, press the green button, adopt this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 8, believe me, you will be very helpful to this minister, although I think neither this minister nor this government has any help. Soon the elections will be and this is just one of the jobs that we're going to have to do, we're going to have to put this law out of force and then adopt our bill, maybe Mr. Radovanovic will modify it a little bit, to bring it into line with time, I guess, from 1998 until now, a lot of changes have been made. Then this law, believe me, will be much better, and if you asked, Mr. Radovanovic would have given that law, you would have been much easier to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26205	Thank you very much, Mr. Markovic. Two and a half minutes left for Mr. Radovanovic. The truth is, you've been very broadly paraphrasing Mrs. Radete's amendment that reads differently. As for the elections I'm going to call on Monday, they're local, so you have no reason to choose the government. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26206	I didn't mean, Mr. President, to those elections you're going to call this Monday, but to those elections that you're going to have to call immediately after the day of the first day and which is going to be parliamentary, I was thinking about them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26207	Thank you for your well-intentioned supplement. I'll try to dissipate them for sure after the holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic has tabled an amendment to add paragraphs 2 and 3 to Article 37. Here is a bit more serious than my fellow MPs from the SRS, Mr Zoran Krasic and Momir Markovic, presented to MPs and the public. Namely, it is here that churches and religious communities can also establish preschools, primary schools, gymnasiums, professional and artistic high schools, universities and universities, in accordance with the law. This is about civil school. What is said in accordance with the law is primarily referred to as the Law on the basic system of education and education and the Law on Higher Education. When someone under these laws needs to coordinate the teaching in churches and religious communities, and respecting the curricula and the programme under these laws, the state, and especially then we should make sure that the persons of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do so, except as provided for by Article 37 of the Amendment to Article 37, by Miroslav Nedeljkovic, SRS MPs. The following position gives the possibility for a foreign national to conduct a course in the educational institutions referred to in Article 1 on the basis of the prior consent of the competent ministry to be issued at the request of a church or a religious community. This is about a very serious matter, a whole system, a civil, state education and education, from preschool institutions to higher education institutions, and there you really should, Mr. Minister, have whatever you didn't have on Article 38, which implies worship by priests and religious officials in matters of religious rituals etc. This is about much more complex and sensitive matter, because it is about children in preschool institutions, about the curriculum and the programme according to civil laws, state laws, the laws adopted in this assembly, you weren't there, the Law on the Basic Education System, the Law on Higher Education. The curricula and the program of these future lecturers of churches and religious communities, which they propose, should comply with these laws. So, the curricula and the programme should be that, should also be our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only if they are foreign citizens, plus the consent of the competent ministry, in this case the Ministry of Faith, because it must be kept in mind that all of this is ensured and that any kind of abuse from those churches and religious communities that you will eventually register during any period, you or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26209	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26210	Religious and educational institutions in the education system, Article 38. We suggest that the positions of the 2nd and 3rd of this article be deleted. Item 2: ''Religious educational institutions that receive verification or accreditation shall have the right to finance from the budget, a proportional number of believers according to the last census in the Republic. ''Stage 3: ''To improve religious freedom and education, the state can provide financial assistance and religious educational institutions that are not involved in the education system. ''The explanation of why this should be deleted is very simple and simple, there is no reasonable reason for only religious communities to finance part of the budget, while for the other private institutions this possibility is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26211	The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26212	This article stipulates that religious educational institutions have organisational and programming autonomy and that they establish the curriculum and programme on their own, textbooks, manuals, etc. This provision, here now, can a colleague of Donka help, does not comply with Article 20. Fundamental education law, Articles 20. High school law and Article 14. The law on higher education. The first two members predict that the curricula and the religious teaching programme for primary and secondary schools agree to bring forward the minister of education and respected counterpart Radulovic, the minister of religion, to a harmonised proposal from traditional churches and religious communities. Article 14 The Higher Education Act provides for the responsibility of the Quality Accreditation and Verification Commission, where the Commission is said to propose standards and procedures for accreditation of study programmes to the National Council. This member should be brought into line with the said laws of this kind of education, and therefore we have proposed that after these words, the words “institutions” accredited under the law. 'Course, with these laws and his provisions that I quoted for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26213	National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26214	Article 40(2) states: ''The testimonies and diplomas acquired in other religious educational institutions under the procedure of establishing equivalence before the competent state authorities may have the same legal fact as the relevant testimonies and diplomas acquired in state educational institutions. ''We simply think it is good to delete this attitude, because diplomas of private schools that are not accredited to the Ministry of Education's tasks cannot have any legal fact. There is no reason why such a fact should be given to diplomats who betray unaccredited religious schools. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26215	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26216	We propose that article 42 be deleted, because the issue of religious teaching in state schools can only be regulated by laws governing primary and secondary education. Religious organisation at the university is not allowed, which excludes the right for churches to organise religious teaching at the university, the founder of Serbia's state. As far as private schools are concerned, religious education can only be allowed on the basis of the autonomous rights of these same private schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26217	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. () Excuse me, are the consultations related to Article 39? I'm sorry, no consequences, just consultations. So, by the end of the debate in particular, any decision is possible. Alexander Lazarevic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Having adopted the amendment by a representative of the proposings and the Committee on European Integration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To the title, you who follow for the vote, the MPs, above Article 44 and Article 44 of the amendment, were filed by MP Alexander Lazarevic, but the amendment was withdrawn, so that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow there will be no vote, so that you know. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic and Stanisa Stevanovic put together the title above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on European Integration has submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Since the proposer has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On article 44, submitted by MP Rajko Baralic, he was withdrawn and there will be no vote on him in those days of voting. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26218	In Article 45, since we are at the very end, which speaks of information and publishing activity, we propose that attitude 1 be changed and should read, according to us, 'In order to improve religious freedom and freedom of information of the church and the religious community, they have the right to, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the editorial policy of a certain means of public information, carry out their own informative and publishing work on their own. ''The explanation - religious communities should not 'use public broadcasting services', but leave them an opportunity, in line with the editorial policy of each media.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26219	The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26220	Very briefly, since we're literally at the very end. We propose that Article 46(1) be deleted, which says, "In order to improve religious freedom and culture, the competent state authority and local self-government authorities may, in accordance with the possibilities, provide donation to churches and religious communities for their cultural and scientific institutions and programmes." We propose to delete this because the State's material aid is already provided for in Article 30 of the same bill. So I think this is the end, and that's what I'm going to end up with, because we've worked really hard, and we're going in at the last minute of today. I would like to thank my fellow Members who participated in the debate on a very important law. I would also like to thank the minister for some of the amendments he has accepted from us, and I expect fellow MPs will also accept some of Ljiljana Nestorovic's amendment colleagues and mine, and the SDP. Since we are already in the holiday mood, let me only allow you, Mr. President of the Assembly, to fellow MPs who stayed until the last moment in this room, to you, Mr. Minister, citizens of Serbia, who celebrate the greatest Christian holiday on the July calendar, to wish traditionally Christ the Resurrection.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-19-0.u26221	It's true. Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Same wishes for all those who still celebrate Passover. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Milan Radulovic, the minister of religion, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for the responsible work of all those who have worked responsibly today. Continuing is tomorrow, since there are 15 seconds left, Thursday at 10.00 in the morning. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 110 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to begin work. There is no notice of the prevention of the MPs from attending the session. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENDS OF TELECOMUNICATIONS (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vucic, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Veroljub Arsic on the bill. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the Bill's proposal, in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, the Minister of Capital Investments want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the day of voting on the draft law, in principle, in particular and in general. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have arrived at us during the session and a motion to put on the agenda the urgent procedure, pursuant to Article 162, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, is, on the basis of Article 162, item 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that this session be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure: – Proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 April 2006. Since at this point there are no conditions for us to plead on this proposal, based on the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 162, paragraph 3, we will do so at 11.15 hours, so within the hour. I hope there's enough to be there then, and after that, I guess we'll start by voting on the agenda points. Thank you.
