ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24440	I'm asking the media gentlemen to make it possible. Nothing changes, you'll be in a situation many more times to paint this scene, so don't lose anything, please make it possible to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the government, Mr. President, I am opening the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 217 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 185 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. No one reported a leave. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited Mr Boris Tadic, President of the Republic, to this session, in addition to the MPs and representatives of the Government. According to Article 85(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that this session, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, was called on Monday, February 27, 2006, at 1200 hours, so that, past the day and time established in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the importance of regularly submitting a report on the course of talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, on the basis of point 9 of the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, which the National Assembly adopted on 21 November 2005. Before the opening of a single search, a notice of the resignation of a National MP. You have received the resignation of Gjorge Cukvas as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds the end of the term of office of MP George Chukvas on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the election of MP Gjorge Cukvas, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which was called at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n i d: 1. A report on the course of talks on a political solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Report on the discussion of the political solution of the future status of Kosovo and Metohije You received a report submitted by the Government. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for debate is five hours, I realize that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is one hour, 36 minutes; DSS one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 20 minutes, 24 seconds; five MPs "For European Serbia" six minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs, five minutes under Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 160, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Does the President of the Republic want the word, Boris Tadic? No, I don't. Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want the word, Dr Vojislav Kostunica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24441	Dear People's MPs, in the Resolution on the mandate for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, adopted by the National Assembly on 21 November last year, the assembly's obligation to be regularly reported during these talks was stressed. Three months later, the Assembly gets its first report. It is an opportunity for past events to be considered in detail and to present in this highest representative body of Serbia the views of MPs on the work done so far, as well as on continuing work on, for Serbia, the most important state and national issue. Let me remind you first of the most significant political events that have marked the past period or that have come directly before it. The current cycle of events related to Kosovo and Metohija began with a report by Kai Eidea to the UN Security Council on the fulfilment of the standard on 24 October last year. The report opened a process that should address Kosovo and Metohija's future status. The Contact Group then adopted the guiding principles for talks, and the UN secretary-general made his recommendations for holding talks and appointed a special envoy. Our National Assembly adopted a resolution on the mandate for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, followed by a soon-to-be negotiating team. He adopted a comprehensive platform based on the Assembly Resolution and educated a delegation for the first round of talks, which was dedicated to decentralisation. Talks were held on February 20th and 21st, and will continue in March. All these well-known events bring us back to the basic question about the goals of the talks themselves. It is not necessary to miss the opportunity to repeat our basic goal everywhere, especially in this place, and therefore the reason for investing in political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. In fact, it's about two goals that are to the point of mutually seeking that they are actually one comprehensive goal. These are the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. With the Security Council's decision to launch talks on the future status of Cosmeta, Serbia has decided to take over its part of responsibility in resolving the status issue, starting with the fundamental principles of international law and democratic values of the modern world. We patiently and persistently use every opportunity to point out to the entire international community that the stable peace and development of this region can only be achieved through rights and justice, not unilateral acts of imposition or even worse by unilateral acts of violence and kidnapping. By submitting this report today, I find it extremely important that we look back at what Ambassador Eide wrote in his report. In particular, the Security Council decided on the basis of the document to start talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. I remind you that four months ago, Eide expressed a picture of multiethnicity, or human rights standards in Kosovo and Metohija, in one difficult word. He said that the situation in the province is dark in this regard. In this connection, he made it clear that opening talks on future status should in no way mean abandoning standards in the international community, but rather that negotiations should assume even increased monitoring of standards, which must be strengthened and implemented. This attitude was declared by all international factors and equally repeated, both in conversations with us and on other occasions. Of course, the last six and a half years have made us skeptical about promising messages from the international community, and as for some evil legality, the fate of an empty word begins to mark these last messages regarding standards. Ambassador Eidea's report to the UN Security Council has been four months long, and no one could point to the slightest progress in meeting the standards. Instead, the position of the Serb community is stagnating in an existing terrible state, a lot of which is getting worse. Throughout Kosovo and Metohija where Serbs live, unpunished acts of violence continue to take place, with a message that is essentially contained in each of them and reads: "Serbia should leave Kosovo and Metohija". In front of the last Assembly, where we adopted our Resolution, a vandal act took place to bring down the roof on the Mother of the Left. Directly ahead of this assembly, mass rocking of Serbs, who wanted to visit the graves of their loved ones, took place. We see that ethnic violence, conducted by Albanian extremists against the Serb community, has no end. This is mostly because the international community's representatives in charge simply do not do their job. Despite his own assessment that the state of multiethnicity in the province is actually dark, Eide recommended starting status talks. This also formally abandoned policy is standards before status. That's why we here today have every right to ask some quite simple questions. What's the standard plan ever done in the last four months? Is something done even on paper, if anything, but nothing has been done in real life? What happened to the increased monitoring of compliance with the country's standards? This is actually the same question that should be referred to multiple addresses at the same time, and Marty Ahtisaari, and the Contact Group, and Jesse Petersen. We have the right to ask the question of what has happened well in the province in the last four months, and we will answer very easily if someone dares and asks what the hell happened in the province at the same time. To ask another question that we expect with full right to answer: is anyone responsible for all the evil that has been done here for six years to Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija? Leading a constructive and logical policy, the least Serbia has is the right to expect and get answers to these simple questions. The Serbian government has warned since its formation that without valid decentralisation of the province there simply cannot be progress in meeting standards. I would remind only that the plan to resolve the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which the assembly adopted on a proposal from the government on 29 April last year, was a highly developed, elaborated form of a proposal to decentralisation the province. That is why we hope that the start of decentralisation talks can be the launch of a process from a dead end on a very serious topic. There are of course more such topics, so we expect special talks on these other topics, on the state of cultural heritage, and on the protection and restoration of monasteries and churches of the Serbian Orthodox Church; then on the problems of property and privatisation, on security and on other issues. Any finding of compromise solutions in regulating all these issues could create a more favourable atmosphere and directly facilitate the start and flow of status talks. Of course, all of this can't replace having such conversations. We are ready to discuss status immediately, since we have not only a clear strategy and goals, but also concrete ideas and concepts of how to reach these goals. The right place to present such an idea is just a negotiating table. Our proposals guaranteeing full and essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro must be presented to the only real address – the Kosovo Albanians i.e. their legitimate representatives. Now I'd like to say something about the very talks we've had about the province's future status. Although officially opened nearly four months ago, real status talks have not yet begun. When I say the right one, I mean direct talks with the representatives of the cosmetian Albanians, who, according to UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's recommendation, should be provided. That hasn't happened yet. Moreover, more has been said in the international public about the end of this period. Orphemy, constraint to these conversations, rather than to their beginning. This was contributed not only by the positions of individual members of the Contact Group, but by statements by the top representatives of the international community in charge of these talks. Of course, while the discussions in the right sense have not yet begun, some have, on several occasions, tried to make up for this gap in real operation by interpreting the Contact Group's "creative" principles or more specifically by finding in them what is not actually there. Most of the time, it was claimed, that only one but most impressive example, that the principle that there is no return of Kosovo to the situation before March 1999 actually means that there is no return of Kosovo to Serbia. In this way, not only are the principles of the Contact Group forged, but Resolution 1244, before the status talks actually started. All these attempts of incorrect and malicious interpretation of internationally accepted views and documents regarding the talks have been mild and very firmly denied, and that is sometimes done by representatives of individual members of the Contact Group. I would especially like to assure you that, in almost daily meetings with foreign representatives, we have used every opportunity to make the best arguments in favour of agree and compromise on the issue of Cosmet. In this regard, we are constantly and in detail explaining that the task of the special envoy and his team, as well as the Contact Group, is to create conditions that all these talks are conducted in good faith, that it is possible to come to an agreement, as the solution can be real and lasting only if it is so, if it is agreed. Any other will inevitably be imposed, and such an approach would not only lead to peace, but would plant new seeds of evil in the Balkans, from which a new spiral of violent changes would eventually develop, according to the same model allowed in Kosovo and Metohija. There is, of course, the meaning of our constant warnings that it must not be allowed to violate international law and our indications of danger unless it is prevented. As with any right, and internationally, there is a regulation primarily of difficult and only then normal situations. It would not be right if it were not possible for my general and broad norms to cover all possible cases, even the most difficult, specific ones. When politicians are unable or reluctant to solve a problem, and especially a difficult case, they are then calling for its absolute uniqueness, inability and uniqueness, to transfer their responsibility to others. Tosa must not happen to Kosovo and Metohija, as the consequences of such an elegant avoidance of responsibility would be terrible. Kosovo's problem wasn't easy either in 1999, not in 1981, not in 1968, not in 1945, not many times before. A person who has undertaken to resolve it must bear the burden of this responsibility to the real solution, not to something that does not look like a solution. Our side offers a solution that has a historically compromised character, i.e. we are ready to discuss a solution that would have such a character, between the independence options and the usual standard autonomy by European models, is an option of essential, expanded autonomy, which we are prepared to fully define in direct talks with Albanian representatives. We can't even do one thing, and that's to allow another state to be created within the borders of our country, which would separate a part of the territory and, in the abyss, take away international rights, and human rights, and fundamental principles of justice and morality, and cultural heritage, and spiritual property, and a lot of what our historical and modern identity is made of. We cannot allow it because of ourselves or other neighbours, because one precedent would be disturbed by the whole and with so much trouble established a balance system in the area. Knowing what the goal is today, Serbia must collect maximum strength, political rationality and unity in order to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. With the passage of time, Kosovo and Metohija are indeed becoming less and less a party issue or a question that individual political groups in the country and society should make their own political profit. On this difficult issue of our present day, including our tomorrow, slowly and spontaneously, political and wider social consent is being built, without which any government would be difficult and almost impossible. A special role, and I would like to point out in particular here, is being given to the National Assembly, which, in Parliament's democracy, has become the place of making the most big strategic state decisions on this issue. It should also retain and strengthen its control function in such a significant matter. The decision to keep the Assembly regularly informed of these political talks and was made so that it could react in a timely manner in case of possible major changes in the behaviour of international factors. There is no better way to build and implement a very difficult policy such as that of Cosmet, than is the co-operation of all state authorities and all social forces under the auspices of the highest representative body. This is what opponents in international frameworks, who view Kosovo and Metohija under the influence of the past's momentum, not in the light of new realities in both the province and Serbia. That is why by building our internal democratic policy, and broad social and state consensus on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, we can realistically expect many more positive echoes in the international community, and this can make a decisive contribution to a fair solution to this difficult issue. In addition, respected MPs, it is time to remind ourselves that in the very guiding principles of the Contact Group for the resolution of Kosovo's status, it is not acceptable to accept any solution that is unilaterally or stems from the use of force. The right moment is also to remind Martti Ahtisaari of his earlier statement, while he was still the president of Finland, that the development of democracy will depend on whether Kosovo remains in Serbia's membership or becomes independent. Today, Serbia is a democratic state, and no one is questioning it. Since no free and democratic state could ever accept that by imposing a solution to the kidnapping part of its territory, and this assembly, we remember, has rightfully established in its resolution that any imposed solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija would be declared illegal, illegal and invalid. We trust the UN Security Council, first of all because we're not looking for anything but that our country is subject to the same universal principles that all democratic states in the world are being called upon. If an exception were made in our case, an alibi would be made first, and then a precedent, how to reach national minorities around the world. The world community must know and know that European and any other standards and values require national minorities to exercise their rights, whether individual, whether collective, through different degrees of autonomy and systems of minority rights, rather than through the breaking of existing state continents. We are convinced of the correctness of the principles that our policy is governed, as we are confident that, acting as we do, we are at the same time defending both the principles and the values on which the modern international order rests. The agreement and compromise solution we offer is a European solution in the right sense, because it rests on the European experience of finding solutions that are both compatible with international law and efforts to ensure the right of autonomy measures for national minorities. Essential autonomy, with a sufficient number of independent competencies and institutional mechanisms for the province to manage economic and social life in a valid way, represents a European formula for a mutual, permanent and stable solution. Within essential autonomy, fatigue is also sought the best way to establish autonomy for the Serb community. I believe, in the end, that we are unique and determined to defend these principles of politics, because only they can lead us to a compromise and historical just solution. The Serbian government will take all steps concerning further negotiations, as it now does, only within the framework of the mandates given by the assembly. We believe that the state's interest at this point requires negotiations in these frameworks to continue. Today here in the Assembly, we again, honourable MPs, find that Serbia is for an agreement, for a just solution, for respecting the general principles of international law and respecting universal values. By taking all together the obligation not to give up on these principles, we get into our hands the unfettered arguments based on right, on justice and on truth. I am convinced, honourable MPs, that our unity and these values are the strongest foothold that is available to Serbia today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24442	I ask if the team's political talks coordinators, Slobodan Samardzic, Leon Cohen, want the word? Leon Cohen, advisor to the President of the Republic. Here you go, Mr. Cohen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24443	Dear People's MPs, as co-ordinators of the state negotiating team for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija, Slobodan Samardzic and I have been determined to report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the team's work over the past three months. Our report, for the sake of transparency, is divided into two parts. Part one, dedicated to the activities of the negotiating team regarding the issue of the province's future status, I'll take it from you. The second part, dedicated to the negotiating team's activities on the issue of centralisation of government in the province, will be submitted to you by Slobodan Samardzic. In both cases it is a summary version, a broader version has already been delivered and is in the material for this session. Neither the opening of the status process, nor the appointment of the UN Secretary-General for Kosovo and Metohija's special envoy, came as a surprise, nor did the country's political leadership welcome them unprepared. At the same UN Security Council session of 24 October 2005, which decided on the launch of the status negotiations, the Council, on behalf of our country, was addressed by Republika Srpska Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. In his speech, he presented key elements of the adopted state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. First, the inviolability of Serbia-Montenegro's sovereignty and territorial integrity as an internationally recognised state; secondly, the non-acceptability of any imposed solution for the future status of the province; thirdly, the willingness of our country to a political compromise, which would fully respect the legitimate interests of the Albanian population of Kosovo and Metohija, recognising the province within Serbia a very broad autonomy; and fourthly, a bid for direct negotiations by the two sides, with the presence and participation of international intermediaries, because they are most likely to give political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija a successful conclusion of the agreement. In this way, at the time of the formal opening of the status process, a further confirmed policy which was designed throughout 2005 and which was clearly presented to both the domestic public and all relevant international factors. The main policy holders, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Kostunica, reached an agreement on the composition, way of working and concrete tasks of the state negotiating team and, implementing the deal in action, the government of the Republic of Serbia has officially formed a negotiating team since 24 November 2005. Details on how the negotiating team works are coming out of the framework of this report, but it should be mentioned that for the increasingly important decisions made by the negotiating team, a consensus between the two co-chairs, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica is necessary. From the establishment of the negotiating team to the present day, there has been a continuing issue at the heart of its work of full negotiations – what will be the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. However, it is not yet the subject of direct talks between the two sides. Since the first visit by special envoy Ahtisaari to Belgrade and Pristina in late November 2005, to this day, the issue has been discussed within the framework of a shuttle of diplomacy, in which most of the Contact Group countries participate intensively. It is no secret that individual countries Contact groups have different views on how a status process should take place, and on the nature of a desirable solution to the future status of the province, and on the importance of ending negotiations within a certain time limit. In the same mah, in the Contact Group it is decided by consensus, so that its documents are always a compromise, often achieved by adopting formulas that can be interpreted in several ways. This type of thought-out ambiguity, well known in diplomatic practice, at least at an early stage does not endanger a more serious negotiating process, but it requires that it respond in due time whenever someone tries to impose unilateral interpretation of key positions and thus prejudges the outcome of negotiations. So far, there has been twice the opportunity for the negotiating team to react to such cases, once in early December 2005 and the second time in late January 2006. Both times, under the orders of the two co-chairs, the negotiating team co-ordinators presented to the ambassadors of the member states the Contact Group a clear position on our side: any change in the position of the Contact Group, which would unequivocally prejudge the outcome of the negotiations against our interests, would inevitably trigger a change in our country's position towards the negotiating process itself, with negative consequences on the possibility that it would successfully end the settlement of the agreement. Both times, official assurances have been received that the position of the Contact Group itself has not changed and that it can only be in the middle of the position of some of the member states that do not commit the Contact Group in general. The importance of such episodes still does not need to be underestimated: they show that early-time prejudices are still in effect, which the current government in Serbia cannot influence more significantly. Our team's policy would be unilateral if it focused exclusively on defending the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, not offering any political compromise as a basis for achieving a mutually acceptable solution. That is why the issue is given great attention to the platform adopted unanimously by the negotiating team in early January of this year. The platform carefully discusses the constitutional and political modes of broad autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, envisions international guarantees of such an agreement and suggests a contribution to regional stability and security that would represent its acceptance. However, these parts of the platform will be presented to the public only before the start of direct negotiations on the province's future status, as their publication today would only unnecessarily "discover cards" and would have no positive political consequences. The last Contact Group meeting, held just days after Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin's statement on how to resolve the Kosovo issue, ended with the adoption of a new document, more subject to different interpretations than they are so-called. Managing the Contact Group principles of November 2005. The London-based statement said "UN Security Council Resolution 1244 remains a framework for the implementation of the status process," both sides are urged to seek "an agreed solution" as the best outcome of the negotiations. Belgrade is warned that "in addition to other qualities", the solution should be acceptable to the people of Kosovo, while the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina warn that there is no "sustainable solution" to Kosovo's status without meeting standards that would allow for the safe life and development of all communities in the province. If this adds a known and repeated request that the solution should not lead to "the return of Kosovo to the situation before March 1999", to "the division of Kosovo" or "the unification of Kosovo with another state or part of the state", we have a set of conditions and recommendations that clearly exclude some possible solutions, such as the division of the province, but can be interpreted in a very different manner. That, of course, is not just an abstract possibility. From January 31st, when the London Contact Group meeting was held until today, different interpretations of the London-based statement and the overall attitude of the Contact Group came from some member states. Given the much wider range of views on the future status of the province that exists, it is clear that a solution to the Kosovo issue will not be affected by just one or two countries. The UN Security Council session on Kosovo and Metohija, which took place two weeks ago on 14 February 2006, gave unequivocally confirmation of this stance. If the ambassadors of four of the five permanent members of the Security Council, the United States, the Russian Federation, the NR of China and the UK themselves are looked at, the misunderstanding of the future status of the province is even more obvious than within the Contact Group itself. Given the fact that a new Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which would replace Resolution 1244, cannot be reached unless the new Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija is voted on or at least abstained at the time of the vote, it is easy to conclude that there is no necessary consensus in the international community at this moment that would allow, past the negotiations, a solution to be imposed. That doesn't mean that such a consensus is off at some later point. But there is no reason to think, as much as we are convinced by different voices from the country and abroad, that Kosovo and Metohija's independence is "a certain thing" and that the negotiations will really be led to protect the Serb population and Serbian monasterys in a future "independent Kosovo". To such claims, which sometimes come from serious political circles, he responded in his statement at the aforementioned Security Council session of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. "It is increasingly heard," he said, "so that Serbia should accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence in exchange for improving the position of the Serbian community in the province. Such a cynical offer, democratic Serbia refuses as unequivocally as it is rejected by Serbs themselves from Kosovo and Metohija. On the contrary, the rights that Serbs in the province lost after 1999, and with them normal living conditions, must be returned to them. Those rights, including the right to return, are not and cannot be the subject of trade between Belgrade and Pristina," Tadic said, noting once again the basic elements of our negotiating platform. For anyone who looks at things without prejudice, these elements are a reasoned proposal for a solution to the Serb-Albanian conflict. First, the backdrop of the solution makes "a political compromise without a unilateral change in internationally recognised borders and the political destabilisation it brings with it. "Secondly, "Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija get very broad autonomy," but "on condition that they accept such autonomy as the Serbian entity in the province. "The third, "an agreed solution that would have been reached in this way would have been internationally guaranteed and, after the end of a certain period (from, say, 20 years), would again be found at the negotiating table. "The fourth, "the Serbia-Montenegro co-operation process, including Kosovo and Metohija, with the European Union, would continue through appropriate accompanying mechanisms. "This way, with more details than it was before, some of the concrete solutions contained in our negotiating platform when it comes to the future status of the province. Honorable MPs, day-to-day political and diplomatic actions taking place on all sides with regard to Kosovo and Metohija can easily protect us from what is fundamental from the point of view of national and state interests. I mean the consistency of the idea and the firmness of the stand, with which the country's political leadership, not only for the past three months, but also for the last year, has led the state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. Like any other, that policy can be challenged. Given the real political circumstances, I am convinced that any other policy would already lead to failure and that this is why the current policy on the future status of the province is the only possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24444	Does Mr. Slobodan Samardzic, an adviser to the Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24445	Dear People's MPs, the first direct talks of the two delegations, in political talks on Kosovo's future status and Metohija, concerned decentralisation issues and were held in Vienna on 20 February and 21 February this year. The originally planned date of these talks was January 25th, but were delayed in two moments. The launch of direct political talks on Kosovo's future status and the Metohija issue of decentralisation was initiated at the first meeting of the president of the Republic and the Serbian government with UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari on 24 November last year. On that occasion, it was agreed that direct talks should first start with issues whose resolution could contribute to improving the situation of Serbs and other non-Albanian communities in the province. Progress in these issues was estimated to facilitate later talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. This conclusion was in line with our side's long-term view that only serious decentralisation of authorities could create new institutional preconditions for the survival of Serbs and other non-Albanians in the province and maintain its safe and lasting multiethnic character. This, in other words, means that for the normal life of Serbs, for their essential security and especially for their return to the province, it is necessary to create adequate conditions and reliable guarantees. Thus, just as important in talks on the province's status is the modality of its reintegration into Serbia, it is so important, and even more urgent in time, to secure a new position for Serbs living in the province and those who need to return. Decentralisation was not a random theme for starting talks on the province's future status. Not only have heavy political talks been conducted almost two years ago, it has become the subject of major disputes between representatives of our state authorities and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, on the one hand, and representatives of the international administration and the cosmet Albanians, on the other. After mass violence in March 2004, the National Assembly of Serbia adopted a resolution forcing the government to prepare a proposal for a political solution to the existing situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The document included three points that such a proposal had to take into account. First, Kosovo and Metohija are inalienable parts of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Secondly, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija must have new institutional guarantees of their position and better protection of their rights. Third, Serbia must ensure the survival and rapid return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. A plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, adopted by the National Assembly in late April 2004, came out of such a formalised commitment. The plan proposed autonomy for the Serb community within the province in a detailed and consistent way as a necessary solution in order to protect the fundamental rights of its members, counting on the right to return. Instead of taking into account Serbia's initiative, UNMIK's responsible representatives, together with representatives of the Kosovo provisional institutions, formed their concept of decentralisation, which was adopted in the Kosovo Assembly in July 2004, so-called. A framework for reforming local self-government in Kosovo. Although this framework, according to its solutions, was extremely insufficient for the province to guarantee the survival, security and return of Serbs in concrete conditions, our party accepted UNMIK's offer to hold talks on a possible consensual solution resulting from these two documents. Such a possibility was confirmed by the Contact Group in a statement after its meeting in New York on 22 September 2004. After this meeting of the Contact Group, with clear recommendations on starting decentralisation talks with equal participation from Belgrade, it has been almost a year without any results. Faced with a practical failure, on one hand, and the mission of Special Envoy of Secretary-General Kai Eide for the assessment of compliance with the standards, on the other hand, Special Representative Jessen Petersen first asked the Serb representatives from Kosovo and Metohija at the end of August 2005 to present their requirements on decentralisation. This was done in the light of the letters sent by Serbian representatives on 31 August 2005. It should be said that this letter was drawn up in full coordination with the cabinets of the president of the Republic and the Serbian government. In addition, the letter presented requests from several working documents on Kosovo and Metohija prepared by our state authorities. In short, these requirements were: firstly, an increased number of responsibilities for municipalities, with specific powers; secondly, the establishment of a larger number of municipalities, with a clear Serb majority, in specific areas, areas of Kosovo and Metohija; thirdly, allowing the establishment of horizontal links between Serb municipalities, with the establishment of special bodies that would coordinate their policy in different areas, fourthly, implementation of this form of decentralisation by the end of 2006. These views our party also had an opportunity to present at a meeting with Albanian representatives in Vienna on 15 September 2005. The meeting was initiated and led by a special envoy to meet the standards of Mr Kai Eide. At the time, intensive talks were held with the ambassador, where decentralisation was significantly represented. With the outcome of these talks, we can be quite pleased that a special reporter has included most of our decentralisation requirements in his report on compliance with standards. In the context of decentralisation recommendations, he advocated increased responsibilities at local level in the area of police, justice, education, culture, media, economy, including the choice of municipal officials. He also suggested establishing a number of new municipalities with what he says is a total Serb majority. He envisioned horizontal integration of municipalities and advocated special and greater jurisdiction of Serb municipalities compared to others. He also suggested that special links be considered between these municipalities and Belgrade and that several other very useful proposals and recommendations be made. Since this report was without objections adopted at the United Nations Security Council session on 24 October last year and since the Green Light was given at this session to start political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, the recommendations of the special rapporteur can be reliably interpreted as the threshold of a future decentralisation agreement under which it is impossible to go. Our proposal on decentralisation in Kosovo and Metohija, through a mechanism based on self-government i.e. Autonomy for Serbs in the province, after almost two years, has been granted, it can be said, freely, the status of an acceptable solution for the international community as well. Under these circumstances, decentralisation has just been defined as an initial topic for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Our negotiating position on decentralisation was established and adopted at a meeting of the negotiating team on 5 January this year as the fourth part of the overall negotiating platform. Since this part of the general platform is a synthesis of several previous documents on decentralisation, which are known to our public, this part was published directly after adoption in several daily papers. So I don't need to be here, in this place, holding on to the resuming of that part of our negotiating platform. Soon after the adoption of the platform, members of our delegation were appointed to discuss decentralisation, which were already announced in Vienna on January 25th. Talks then did not begin due to Ibrahim Rugova's death, but almost a month later, so on February 21st. This incomprehensible long-term delay was the result of the Albanian side's tactics, which was reluctant to accept the decentralisation talks itself. However, an unexpected break of almost a month has been used by our party to secure a more comprehensive and realistic agenda of the meeting than was originally scheduled for January 25th. In the talks, our party represented the general view that decentralisation in the province and the creation of Serbian autonomy in this context are the only way that today, after six and a half years, the United Nations Security Council Resolution can be implemented 1244. Since the objectives of this resolution have been operationally translated into standards, and standards are practically unachievable without a fundamental improvement in the position of the Serb community, these targets can only be achieved by applying extended and deepened decentralisation. On the basis of this general argument, the members of the delegation exposed the principles and solutions of the new distribution of competences and decentralisation of governance in the areas of health and social policy, education and culture, police and justice. The talks were agreed to continue in Vienna on 17 March, and certain topics of this follow-up -- funding at the level of local self-government, horizontal links between municipalities and special ties between Serb municipalities, the link between Serbian municipalities and Belgrade, with Serbia. Dear MPs, the unique impression of our delegation is that the first round of talks in Vienna can be considered a good start, under one very clear condition. This condition involves intensifying, not extensifying and stalling conversations. But based on the course of these conversations, which took place in one and a half days, it's obvious what we've been warning the organizers of since the beginning of preparation. It is a complex issue, both in political and technical terms, which requires a lot of attention and time. I point out this because it was obvious that the Albanian side was experiencing these talks as an external obligation, which someone else imposed on her and needs to wrap it up as soon as possible. We are left with the time ahead, until 17 March, when the second round of decentralisation talks is scheduled, to take advantage of the continuing process which should bring tangible results regarding the fundamental internal problem in today's Kosovo and Metohija, which is the survival and security of the Serbian people, including the return of the exiles. Decentralisation is an important step in solving this problem, but its full solution involves reintegration of the province into Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24446	The word is made by the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are now likely to understand why we insisted that the negotiating team respects the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the obligation to report on the course of the negotiations. It is good that the President of the Assembly called on the President of the Republic, of course, the Prime Minister calls for each session. It is not good that there are no representatives of the religious communities, representatives of the university, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and it is not good that we are not addressed by the President of the Republic, and it is not good that you are announcing team coordinators as advisers to the President of the Republic and Prime Minister. At least the Prime Minister took advantage of the opportunity to speak, although the counselor spoke, and it seems to me that the President of the Republic has given his advisor a position, which is not good, because I don't know how I can commend or criticize parts of his presentation, as I will try to find some facts from the Prime Minister's presentation. The report was written in two parts. The first part was written by Mr. Leon Cohen, seen in the style and style of the president, whose advisor, in the style of the party he propagated, because he did not mention that he became what he became thanks to the National Assembly resolution. For him, life comes from the moment our negotiating team was formed, and I think it all starts from here and we brought a resolution that ordered the government or approved the government to form a negotiating team. I'm guessing that one finding that when I get distracted probably sounds very funny in the West in people who decide our fate, which is that now we need to seriously negotiate with Serbia because Serbia is now a democratic country. I remind you that the Democratic Party is not taking part in the work of the National Assembly on the claim that Serbia is not a democratic country and that the National Assembly does not carry out its tasks in a democratic way, so I would like to know whether it has become democratic this morning, whether Serbia has become a democratic country and whether this will be the position of negotiators from now on, especially those representing the Democratic Party on the team. It mentions in this part of a Contact Group report that is not said here, open to resolving the fate of Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, to quickly solve this problem and then states that other members are not, as balanced, how diplomats always do. I want to openly tell you what has led me to react differently and more openly than what the Government or the negotiation of this report does. So name those who are for Kosovo's independence, thus presenting to the Serbian public Ahtisaari, Sawyers, Wisner, let's not talk about Albanians, not just representatives of some member states of the Contact Group. Wisner is a representative of George Bush for Kosovo and Metohija to solve the crisis. Sawyers represents England. Ahtisaari was brought here to resolve Gordi's knot. It seems very warning, with the fact that you can interpret the Russian attitude in one way or another, insisting on principles. This could mean that Russia would also be eligible for independent Kosovo if it looked only at its own interests, I suppose it would significantly increase its territory and increase the number of people in the Federation. Then we came to the part where it is said that there is no need to underestimate the importance of these episodes, but the most difficult thing to prove is that "there are still preconceived preconceived past times, which currently cannot be affected by the current government in Serbia. "Why aren't you open? Are these earlier times from 2000 to 2000, or from 1990 to 1992, from 1992 to 1995, what are these times affecting the West, England, America and Ahtisaari, which are broadly the international community. What preconceptions from earlier times that you have failed to remove in six years, even if Serbia is finally a democratic country. Someone will come and say, in a hundred years, yes, but our preconceived preconceptions from earlier times are helping us to take away a piece of your territory, and our beliefs from the present times are saying that you will have nothing against it. The secret part of the platform about what our position is about the final solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija really sounds like a story to little children. If you all step forward -- the Prime Minister said that we must not allow the formation of a state in Serbia's territory, the President of the Republic said that the inadmissible formation of territory on the territory of the Republic of Serbia -- with one clear position, what part of the platform you are hiding from us, and what is the most important part, will seem to be your reaction in the event of an unfavourable solution. And in the case of a favourable solution, do not report to us, nor have we called upon you because we are convinced that the solution will be positive and favorable, so we would like to give you a commendation. You'll also have a medal, I guarantee you, since this is all waiting for the SRS and you know it very well. So, you will be respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all decorated if it is a positive solution. I want to help you prepare for a negative solution. When I warn, therefore, of what you are warning, whether we will accept a negative solution, when I use the terms of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is some pro-Western dung to attack me. The elderly hide behind them, do not want to go public, and send some young children to attack Tomislav Nikolic why he says it will be an occupation of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you can't attack me, you can't feel attacked, you can't feel threatened, because you're reacting to my appointment, and you don't know how you're going to, or you're going to confess to that country, to another's army and to the police that's going to occupy the borders towards Serbia or you won't admit it. If you don't want to admit it, as the Prime Minister says, I'd like to remind you of the constitutional obligations you've made. Article 2 The constitution: "The sovereignty belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4: "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and inalienable. The change in the borders of the Republic of Serbia is decided by citizens with a referendum. "Article 51: "The defence of the Republic of Serbia is the right and duty of every citizen. No one has the right to acknowledge and sign the capitulation, nor to accept or acknowledge the occupation of the Republic of Serbia or any part of it. The betrayal of the Republic of Serbia is a crime against the people and is punishable as a serious crime. "Why not condemn the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by which you are all elected? The National Assembly decides on war and peace. You say Tomislav Nikolic leads to war. The National Assembly decides on war and peace. Article 86 - at the time of entry into office, the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly, which is part of it - I swear that I will dedicate all my forces to the preservation of sovereignty and the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Article 16 The Government Act - the government's mandate runs from swearing to the National Assembly. The oath reads - I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law. Where do you get the right to call me in the media for the words I tell you, in the desire to help you and in the desire to remind you of your rights, but also your duties, which you took by taking an oath. But since you don't appreciate the oaths others make, it seems that individuals don't appreciate the oaths they take alone. The United Nations has not met its obligations to Serbia-Montenegro in Kosovo and Metohija. By hiring Ahtisaari, I'm convinced they're not planning to meet them. We must prepare for both good and bad solutions. You say that part of our strategy is secret. Then why do you take it out individually in public, each in your own way? Why does the President of the Republic continue to talk about entities, why does Vuk Draskovic talk about solutions applied in some other countries, why if it is a secret and is it that you individually present that strategy that you hide from us? You cannot be a secret organization in front of the Serbian Parliament, and when Western negotiators come and ask openly, what you stand for, why don't you tell them, it's a secret part of our plan that we hide from you. Is that what you tell them? I don't think you're telling them. Why should it be a secret when Albanians say, we are talking exclusively about Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and why not say so, we are not talking about Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Maybe someone will make us and them meet halfway, and if they openly say they want only independence, and we hide what we stand for, who's there in advantage? They say they want independence and come to negotiations, and no one warns them, no one tells them, go back and come with another strategy, because it is unacceptable under UN Charter Resolution 1244, according to our current understanding. What's an occupation? Did Kouchner seduce all of this in Kosovo and Metohija? Yes, his first law was to suspend the laws of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and the occupier accepted the international law of the country he occupied. The United Nations went further, and all in front of our eyes, and none of us reacted to that. To remind you of Halstein's doctrine in international law, the conduct of the Federal Republic of Germany in the case of the Democratic Republic of Germany. Germany adopted the principle, whoever recognises East Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany is interrupting diplomatic relations with it. They broke up with us when we confessed to East Germany. To remind you that China is doing so with Macedonia when Macedonia has confessed to Taiwan. Let me remind you that Morocco interrupted diplomatic relations with us when we confessed to frontal polysario. Let me remind you of the case of Indonesia and West Irian. There are many examples in the world's political diplomatic history as the state defends itself. I'm just telling you how you're supposed to defend this little, poor, but beautiful country of ours. I remind you of rule three, rule of rhetoric in international relations. Anyone who recognises Kosovo and Metohija, we must stop diplomatic relations with him. I guess that's the basic principle. If the United Nations steals our territory, what are we going to do as a member in that international organization? To give them the opportunity to kidnap us after that and the Vojvodina, to kidnap us from the Raska area, all under the UN's patronage, and to recognise sovereignty, territorial integrity, integrity, indivisibility, etc. To remind you that you have many ways to defend the Republic of Serbia in a diplomatic, political, democratic way, in which all the developed world defends itself. May I remind you that you here in this assembly have the support of all MPs to defend the Republic of Serbia, but it is my duty to ask you, if it is unacceptable to form a state of Kosovo, if we will not allow the formation of a state of Kosovo, what does that mean? That's what I'm asking those who took an oath. What does that mean for the President of the Republic, what does that mean for the Prime Minister? What kind of struggle for your country? What sight to prevent treason? What kind of failure to create the state of Kosovo and Metohija? And who's going to help us with that? Let me warn you of the statements made by Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, who is an unmistakably barbaric with you, unequal to the two of you. Let me remind you that this man has a heavy anthem of The Hague's indictment and that all his moves have been corrected, motivated, limited, driven by fear of extradition to The Hague tribunal, and the fear of pressing charges before The Hague tribunal. In the documentation presented by Carla del Ponte, on many charges brought against Serbs, there are many crimes that you can immediately bind to the engagement of Vuk Draskovic. Let me remind you, and him too, that I did not bring Serbia into a war against the NATO Pact, because at that time I saw him as the vice president of the federal government, who subsequently accepted his decision from this assembly on the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, the federal government that subsequently concluded the Kuman deal. Not to transfer any burden to you from Serbia, that you inherited any burden. You had no burden around Kosovo and Metohija according to your statements. You inherited the territory that was guarded by the UN and the most democratic countries in the world. Where are we today? Only in the five years that you have been in power to pull the parallel between October 2000 and today: is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija better and more favourable or not? Has anyone admitted to you that it is a democratic Serbia that cares about Kosovo and Metohija. Has one gesture given any high representative, and it's changed a lot since then, admitted that we have a democratic country that shouldn't be taking territory? That our people must not be banished, that no one must kill us. I'm on my own on whether negotiations should last shorter or longer. It seems to me that it is in some's interest that the negotiations last long enough for the territory to run out of Serbs. To remind you of the Republic of the Serbian Krajina. It was only a problem while the Serbs lived there. She had better protection than Kosovo and Metohija, and then when the Serbs disappeared, the Croats went to the Danube. It's just that there's a problem. Do not let Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija be prisoners that the Serbs must be in Kosovo to be a problem. Provide their salaries, their living conditions. You can't protect them, but you can help them materially. There are richer people who earn profits exclusively thanks to jobs with the Serbian government or the National Office. Let some of the profits be allocated to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to separate everyone from the price of electricity in Kosovo and the Metohija for Serbs, to have a job internship, to educate their children. Don't let them be in the ghetto, and if they keep Kosovo and Metohija safe, they won't last. None of you would. Let him raise his hand which one of you and your children and grandchildren today would live in Kosovo and Metohija as a Serb. Let's get one of the 250. You have an easy task, with the support of the National Assembly, to respect the Constitution and defend the Republic of Serbia. Whoever isn't up to that easy task won't be able to solve any heavy ones. Of course, contacts with the West make it difficult for you because you still haven't been able to show me who came from the West to tell us that Kosovo and Metohija will remain in Serbia. The one who doesn't want to say he's going to be independent, he says - this or that will be respected. No one has said from the west that Kosovo and Metohija will be in Serbia, with the widest possible autonomy. That's a load for you. But say it in public. Tell us publicly what Russia's attitude is, and has anyone angered Russia in Serbia by the fact that the Russian dollar or the Russian euro is worth nothing? What has no protection, and there are no conditions for privatization for them, and what could we possibly give complexes, depending on Russian raw materials and energy, to that west? Say, if Russia has no reason, and there is no, to protect us as brothers, like these, it would have reason to protect us as a state that has its own investments here. Tell me if anyone is preventing Russia, why is the Russian ambassador publicly pleading as the ambassador of a friendly state who has been denied the rights that other states have here? Don't play with Russia. We don't have a second base today. Europe trembles when Russia cannot deliver gas for two days. It's not 2001 that you're sneezing funnyly when someone's talking about Russia, it's 2006. We're talking about economic, economical gin, energy raw gin, military gin, political gin. We need their support, you know, alone, if the Russians are not on our side, along with the abstentioned Chinese, we will lose Kosovo and Metohija. (President: You're out of time. I'm done, I'm sorry. We will, of course, accept this report because it tells us some insignificant things. We ask that you tell us here clearly and openly - you are not for the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. What are you for? The easiest thing to say is what you're for. I'm asking you what you're going to defend and how you're going to defend it, and I'm going to raise my hand right now to say, we're going to back you up, or I'm going to say, we're not going to back you right now without thinking. Everything else, of course, I respect the team that goes there for the talks, all other stories are for counselors, associates, but I am interested in the views of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. I welcome the fact that I finally see them together somewhere, though separated in one row.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24448	The word is made by the president of the DSS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24449	Dear President, Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the State, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this House has adopted Kosovo and Metohija and the frameworks of that policy have been given in the documents of this House. The home's documents are well-known to the public, and they serve as a framework for powers and a framework for the negotiation of the negotiating team, which was given the mandate by this home to negotiate. It is a terrible good opportunity, and today it is an opportunity for us to bear witness to this, to negotiate in accordance with the frameworks set by this home and to submit, as we can see, regular reports, and there will be more, for the negotiations will continue. There's obviously a very difficult task ahead of us, and anyone who thinks the negotiating team has an easy position, he's wrong, and no one has ever said that. That's what we expect, thanks to a series of unfavourable circumstances that have existed so far and are very difficult, but there are a few things on our side, and whether it's enough for success, I don't know, but that it can give hope for success, it can certainly, and above all it's international law, and it is on our side, and justice is on our side when it comes to this. The guidelines given to the negotiating team are clear enough at the same time, and on the other hand they are flexible enough for the negotiating team to be able to access its business in an unfettered manner. The clarity of these guidelines, among other things, in response to some of the issues raised in public, is given in the Resolution itself, in point 3, when it comes to some of the things that we have mentioned here, or which we will mention, or which are mentioned in the public. It's not about this home, and it's not about the negotiating team, it's not about the president of the state, it's not about the Prime Minister, it's about not agreeing to make decisions. If you look at the resolution we adopted in this home, at least it was voted by the vast majority of the MPs, it clearly contains a non-admissive solution. This non-compliance is even defined as not accepting the legitimacy of the imposed decision and the imposed solution. Therefore, the negotiating team has clear definitions, and according to a report that we had the opportunity to hear about the course of the negotiations, and about what directly preceded the negotiations from the moment the Security Council decided to start negotiations, we saw in a brief and very simple way the chronology of what was going on and most selflessly and honestly exposed everything that could be relevant for the further course of negotiations and for what would continue to happen. I am deeply convinced that the negotiating team will give everything in its power, and in line with the policy of this home, the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, and ultimately, in accordance with the Constitution, to protect both the objectives of protection, both Serbs and other non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, because they need protection at this point, and to protect Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty on the whole of their territory. Modalities mean talking about broad autonomy, and that's what our negotiating team wants to have for the subject of conversation, and that's obviously from this report that we had the chance to see today. Of course, it was obvious that the difficulties had been identified, and of course what the negotiating team would have had, if he hadn't tried, with the mandate of this home, to try all the difficulties ahead to eliminate. Of course, it should not be reminded that the framework that we are talking about today is confirmed by this report and the direction in which we should move at the level of an agreed solution to Kosovo and Metohija's problem, while achieving the decentralisation process, unfortunately, at the same time resolving the status issue, because it was previously shown to be a fundamental and functional error. Of course, with an attempt to prove that the proposals coming from the Serbian side, by Serbia, are the proposals that will benefit both the Kosovo population and the Metohija population in general, the population of Serbia, the countries of the region, the stability in the region, and ultimately the European integration of the entire region in which we live. Anything else would be a step away from these goals. A different mandate from this mandate given to the Resolution cannot be given, nor can any change to the resolution that this assembly has brought. Therefore, this report points to the start of a process that has just begun as a discussion on decentralisation, and we have heard and to what extent this has been taken seriously, and to what extent our negotiating party will try to raise this issue, as one of two very important issues, to a level that deserves respect in order to achieve certain valid results. Of course, that is why it is necessary to support the government's and the negotiating team's efforts, the president of the state and the negotiating team, to continue this negotiation process in this direction as it has been initiated and to hope that there will be enough hearing, enough energy, enough perseverance on our part, and what is not to be doubted, but enough hearing and enough tact by those who intervene in the negotiations and those with whom we negotiate to get the result that is only acceptable for Serbia, and which is a possible good solution for Kosovo Albanians and Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, and for the whole region at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24450	The word has the president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Mr. Milojub Albianic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24451	Madam Presidents, Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, members of the negotiating team, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with the question - what has been brought by Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. We will certainly agree that there is a formal sovereignty of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. What's the reality? Today, Serbia is concerned with 220 towns and villages where one third of the pre-war Serb lives in the province. Over six years, 927 Serbs were killed in terrorist attacks. Serbia singles out a Kosovo supplement, formed a Coordination Centre and a special fund. That is how we managed to maintain the illusion of autonomy under Belgrade's sovereignty. Under UN administration, the area is not integrated into the state's legal and financial system. I'll list a few things: unsettled debt burden, taxes are not paid, unclear passport situation, power outage to Serbs, privatisation beyond Belgrade and the law, without saying that criminals have not been punished since 17 March 2004, as well as the fate of 1,400 missing have not been illuminated. After the March 17th 2004, remember killing Serbs, persecuting, burning houses, burning monasteries and churches, and afterwards the government of the Republic of Serbia, so the government of Kostunica-Labus proposes to the Serbian parliament a resolution and a plan that we unanimously adopt here. The plan represents a model of cantonization and decentralisation of the province. Of course, there is an immediate problem of implementation of the plan, which implies that Kosovo and Metohija are autonomy within Serbia and that Serbia can implement the plan with its mechanisms. The G17 plus party advocated opening negotiations on final status, demarcation, entity establishment, and the Labus plan. I would remind you that this document actually envisioned future events, because the international community policy has changed, so from "standards before status" to "standards and status", even though we all know, and international reports are talking about non-compliance with standards. After this comes a formula that gets the popular term "more than autonomy, less than independence", which, along with the state definition for European integration, gives rise to certain positive signals from the EU. However, in some indications, this formula has been given a practical explanation that the legislative, executive and judicial authority belongs to the province. After that comes Tadic's plan, which actually came from the government plan of Serbia and Labus's entity plan, but also has its own personality. It implies a horizontal integration of Serbian municipalities and a special connection with Belgrade. But what is important is to say: there were more things, there were more ideas, but all these plans have a unique matrix, they have the same basic idea of resolving the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Today, after all these activities and efforts to get Serbia a unique performance, which we have, we have formed a state negotiating team, which has brought a common platform and, based on the authority of the National Assembly and the Government, started negotiations in Vienna. The report before us in the first part speaks about what we were doing in the previous period as a state to adopt joint documents and how a common position in Serbia is balanced, but we also have certain views of the international community. We have seen that individual statements can cause major political reactions in the local public, and that starting talks means grounding and lowering tensions. One part of the report is dedicated to decentralisation and should be noted that it really contains significant elements that I will now quote. For example, on page 13, it is clearly said that the requirements are the following: an increased number of responsibilities for municipalities, with specifically mentioned responsibilities; the establishment of a larger number of municipalities, with a clear Serb majority in the specific areas of Kosovo and Metohija; enabling the establishment of horizontal links between Serb municipalities, with the establishment of special bodies that would coordinate their policy in different areas; the implementation of this form of decentralisation by mid-2006. On page 16, parts of the Negotiating Team Platform are quoted, these are certain guarantees, and are referred to as the territory of a Serb entity, which should cover, alongside existing municipalities with the Serb majority, and a number of newly created municipalities, as well as the most important Orthodox churches and monasteries with surrounding territory. Direct functional ties between Serb municipalities are foreseen here. It is about powers, local police and the judiciary are mentioned and, of course, institutional ties with Serbia. So our national negotiating team was at the height of the task and raised the question of decentralisation in the best possible way. On a subject that looks very ground floor and opens up the possibility of dialogue, it actually breaks the spear. There's a question of why. Because the issue of decentralisation implies the creation of Serb municipalities, a proposal for security in municipalities to be guaranteed by local police, for justice to be conducted by local courts in these municipalities, for Serb municipalities to be connected to an entity and for the entity to have special ties with Belgrade. When we look at the essence, we see this: I initially listed what was happening in Serbia, so from the attitude "autonomy within Kosovo and Metohija", and then the proposal on entities, then "more than autonomy, less than independence", and in some ways the question arises whether the scale of the requirement from Belgrade is coming down? But that raises the most important question: what status do Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have? The answer is clear, we are looking for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija as well as for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. So if, on one hand, we lower the criteria from Belgrade in any way, we raise the criteria for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In the past ten years, the national movement of Albanians has started a war in both Kosovo and Metohija, and in the Republic of Macedonia. In both cases, Albanians are rewarded with special status. At the same time, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija still have no right to local self-government or freedom of movement, while the incarceration of the archbishop of Ohrid, Mr. Jovan, has shown that Serbs in Macedonia do not have the freedom of religion. This brings us to the idea that Serbia does not play an active role in the Balkans and that it would not deal with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that Albanians do not want independence. We'll make a comparison with Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dayton brought peace for Republika Srpska, the cease-killing of ethnicity, the return of people to his homes, the free movement of people and goods. And in Kosovo and Metohija, the end of the war came, but unfortunately the opposite of what I said: it did not stop killing, there was no security and free movement, there was no return of the refugees. It is clear what Resolution 1244 has brought. We can also conclude that it has brought an end to the war, but not lasting peace, so I will repeat the key question: what is the status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? I think our friends from the international community should remind themselves of the good experiences of the Dayton Agreement and also insist that the obligations of Resolution 1244 are not fulfilled, and should be met. This would better protect our negotiators on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. I will end with the words of Bishop Nikolai: "We have the right to live in this world, but also the obligation to allow others to live as well. We have the right to be free, but also the obligation to recognize freedom and others. We have the right to our dried bread, but also the obligation to care for our hungry neighbors. We have the right to demand the protection of our personality, but also the obligation to protect others in danger." And, don't forget, I'm seeing today's session of the Assembly. The fact is that this is the beginning of negotiations and should not be prematurely and quickly brought to the final courts. Our task today is to encourage the state negotiating team, to give them new power to make the constructive proposals of the negotiating platform even more contentable, and wisdom, responsibility, strength and courage will be needed for all of us. I suggest that MPs vote in favour of the report, as will MPs G17 plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24452	Anyone else want a word? Hansel Dacic. Just a moment before that, MP Sanja Cekovic, I think, asked for a word, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the Honored Prime Minister and Minister of Government, I am very sorry that I did not get a word for the replica under the Rules of Procedure, because the deal with President Markovic yesterday was that the session would be conducted exclusively by the Rules of Procedure. Tomislav Nikolic said that Vuk Draskovic is someone on the indictment of The Hague tribunal, that he has the knowledge that everything Mr. Vuk Draskovic is leading from the position of Foreign Minister is something that is forced, forced, blackmailed, because there is someone from The Hague tribunal, known to Mr. Nikolic, who thus blackmails Mr. Vuk Draskovic. That's how I realized Mr. Nikolic's exposure. I have an obligation, as a member of the SPI and as vice president of the party, to say that we do not have that knowledge, that neither Mr. Vuk Draskovic has knowledge, that I am quite certain that this knowledge has neither the government gentleman nor the president of the state, because in that case we would not find a place on the negotiating team, Mr. Vuk Draskovic. You know that Vuk Draskovic is one of the three co-chairs, two co-chairs, Mr Draskovic is the third on the team. In the end, Mr Draskovic is in Brussels today with ministers from the European Union and talks with them, and the president of the Serbian Radical Party is in The Hague tribunal. What's the difference, you find out for yourself; whether there are differences and whether the whole world, the European Union and all the people Vuk Draskovic talked to about Serbia, Kosovo, really think that there is what you're talking about. I firmly argue, on behalf of the SPO, that Vuk Draskovic spent 15 years fighting Slobodan Milosevic's regime and the most sincere against the Serbian Radical Party's ideology. In that sense, we can be politically different, because we are. That's our attitude. Your position is to defend your party's ideas, but it's unacceptable for you to speak such lies at this session today, with such a theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24454	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24455	The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here on many occasions, so I'd ask you to respond, too, that I don't have to go out. I didn't want to go out for a pay phone. In fact, Mr. Vuk Draskovic is not the co-chairman. I don't think anyone here in the hall would vote that Vuk Draskovic has the same right to decide on the negotiating team as Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica do, and you all know why. If you say that for 15 years, Vuk Draskovic spent his life fighting against the ideologies of the SRS, he, a poor man, was killing himself. It's his ideology. All those who began politics with him in 1990 were involved in politics because he had the ideology now represented by the SRS. I should remind several of my friend Omerovic, my friend Bajru and others here to attend the National Assembly sessions without hand that Vuk Draskovic decided how they would live and deal with politics. To remind you that Vuk Draskovic was in a CNN interview during the bombing, as a official in the federal government, said, "Help, brothers, this is a war between Muslims and Christianity." I don't believe you're following such a Wolf Draskovic for ideology. I think it's a matter of small positions you're about to take. I am openly telling Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica – Vuk Draskovic is his man, who he is. It is the case that Vojislav Kostunica and his co-worker Vojislav Kostunica, who are openly in the paper, declare that the Serbian Radical Party is a non-democratic party, that there is no co-operation with it, that it only looks like a democratic party, that in a populist way it holds votes with voters, but it needs a tutor who will lead it. So we are indeed a people, in the right sense of that word, and we will ask you, who are wise, someone who will lead us and who will take the ministerial places, and you will say, "Here is Vuk Draskovic to represent you." Thank you very much. I didn't say Vuk Draskovic was indicted before The Hague tribunal. I said there could be charges against him at any moment, with much more evidence than that of Vojislav Seselj. Don't be a hero. It is our pride that Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague. Don't take that pride away from us. I know a place where Wolf Draskovic could be very helpful, and you know him well.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24456	Replica, MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24457	It's inappropriate for you to tell the president of my party and the foreign minister that he's a poor man. Mr. Vuk Draskovic is not a poor man. He's the party's president and foreign minister. He's a man who's been on the political scene for 15 years, a man who's been through the biggest goal of the regime you've ever been involved in. He's a man who does what he does most honestly. We are not DSS personnel or Vojislav Kostunica, we are coalition partners, we are SPO, we are a party that has identity and we are ready, as always since the 1990s, to work exclusively for the benefit of this country. Whether it fits with your view of Serbia will be decided by Europe and the world. Serbian citizens vote in the elections, and after the elections, the parties that win the votes are forming a ruling coalition. We didn't influence the election of the ruling coalition. We, as the party to whom it was offered, entered the ruling coalition. We had a certain wish, but we couldn't condition that wish, because we weren't the biggest party in the coalition. The desire and decision of the SPO is to make the ruling coalition with DSS, G17 plus, SPO and DS. We are not responsible that this coalition did not occur, but we have entered the coalition very responsibly and in the ministries in which we are participating we are doing what we should do for Serbia's well-being and for the honor of the people who are representatives of the SPO. Leaving MPs, Mr Nikolic, is a matter of MPs and people who left the Serbian Renewal Movement. Once again, I said that once again, anyone who's ever been to the SPO in the last 15 years is a great man to me and I appreciate it because he supported the idea of the SPO, a democratic idea, an idea that leads Serbia to Europe. Please don't insult Mr. Vuk Draskovic. You can envy him, you can want his qualities, you can think about a man who has proved to be an extraordinary man, you can politically oppose us, but don't look for a place and alludate to some ugly things, some ugly institutions, because Vuk Draskovic is a man who belongs to Serbia, Vuk Draskovic is the president of my party and Vuk Draskovic is the foreign minister, who today has an extremely difficult task to defend Serbia and to try to defend it. When it comes to Vuk Draskovic, I have great confidence and I hope he will return from Brussels with a positive result. Please once again, as a representative of the big party, as representatives of the main opposition party, as voters say, have respect for other parties and do not insult my party president, Mr. Vuk Draskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24458	The word is by the chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24459	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Republic, the honourable ministers, the respected citizens of Serbia, the topic we are talking about today and the session we are holding today is certainly not one of the usual topics. This is a Serbian archetype. The topic we are talking about today is about Serbian roots, Serbian villages, but unfortunately, as it may be seen from this session itself, and Serbian divisions. If things were different in Serbia, we shouldn't schedule sessions like this. If political unity exists in Serbia, we should not even set up inter-party records on this most important national and state issues. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we have spent too much time in our history, and not only in these 15 years, although perhaps someone thinks that history begins from October 5th and to this day, and for decades in our history we have spent accusing each other, not realizing that we are also not fighting ourselves enough against what is a constant of politics in Kosovo and the Metohija of all these decades and centuries. The constant is a constant, unique and persistent desire for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to create an independent Kosovo and Metohija. There are many political parties here in the Serbian Parliament, which represent not only the citizens of Serbia but also Serbs. There are serious political differences between us, as can be seen, in how we see the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Do any of us doubt whether there are any differences on Kosovo's future among Albanian political parties? Is there a political party in Kosovo and Metohija that is currently in the Kosovo parliament, where such tones can be heard, for example. What can be heard on the Serbian political scene or in the Serbian Assembly? No, because they know what they want, they want an independent, independent and ethnically clean Kosovo from Serbs. Do we see it or don't we see it? Do we hear it or do we not want to hear it, and do we continue to waste time accusing each other? So today, I think that as the MPs that the people have chosen, including our people who live in Kosovo and Metohija, we should give recognition and gratitude to all Serbs who, despite terrorism and ethnic cleansing, remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija, are aware that this can be dangerous for their lives. Is Kosovo part of our history, is Kosovo part of our future, but Kosovo is part of our present and there and today our people live and he deserves to know what leading Serbian politicians think about the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, recognition should be given to all those who have stayed to live since 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija. We can fight here as much as we want for Kosovo and Metohija, but if there are no Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija then there is no Kosovo in Serbia either. I think we should remember to pay tribute to and recognition to all those who have given their lives to defend their people and their country in all the struggles for the freedom of the Serbian people and for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and this does not apply only to the last ten, 15 years, this applies to the last few centuries, and to all those who have given their lives and defended Kosovo and Metohija when we were exposed to the bombing. They defended their country and their people, and listening to what we said and wrote here today, they defended the basics of Serbian politics, Serbian politics, defended the basics of the Serbian people's policies, which is that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. That is why they gave their lives and they, apart from rare exceptions, are not war criminals, there was no collective, organised and systematic genocide in Kosovo from the Serbian state and the Serb people. On the contrary, there was an organised ethnic cleansing of Serbs by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I hope it is high time to experience sobering; all those who have spoken for ten, fifteen years about the fact that in Kosovo the main problem is the lack of human rights of Albanians or so on. The democratic issue had enough opportunities, unfortunately, to make sure after 2000 that it was absolutely never a topic of the agenda, but that the topic in Kosovo and Metohija was always the creation of an independent Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, I would like to remind you that at the time of the former SFRY, our country has invested $12 billion in Kosovo's territory, that our Republic of Serbia has proposed to Kosovo the highest degree of autonomy that exists in the world, that even an international presence would be accepted if the political agreement on Kosovo and Metohija were signed. The only thing the state wasn't prepared to agree to, and I don't think you're ready to run this country today, is to call a referendum that was scheduled by the Rambouje agreement. It was planned, as you know, so-called. Kosovo's right to hold a referendum after three years of holding an international conference in Rambuje. Ladies and gentlemen, if this had been accepted in 1999, the referendum would have been held in 2002, today there would be no Serbs in Kosovo, today Kosovo would be an independent state. I hope that there is no doubt in any of you or any of us here that Albanians know what they want and that the outcome of such a referendum would be known in advance. Unfortunately, traces of such logic are also seen in the views of the Contact Group where in one part of the conclusions of the London Contact Group meeting, Serbia should accept that the solution should be acceptable to the people of Kosovo. Also, I would not now return to all that applies to the fake painting that was created about Serbia at the time when it was necessary to create a play and a pretense for the bombing of our country; whether there really was a massacre in Račka, which was a cause for the bombing of our country. Also, did Mrs. Ranta, who was a pathologist in that case, admit that the Racak case was fabricated, as was Markale, as well as an alibi for the bombing of Republika Srpska and for the bombing of the SRJ. In our opinion, the mistake was also the amnesty of Albanian terrorists and separatists from Serbian prisons, because they were not in Serbian prisons because they were political prisoners, they were in prison for killing Serbian children and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We also find it a mistake to participate in temporary institutions, so-called Kosovo and Metohija, because this same assembly has declared so-called. Hekerup's Constitution is illegal and illegal. Also, we were against the participation of Serbs in the Kosovo and Metohija elections, as this would legalise the so-called. temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. What standards today are fulfilled in Kosovo and Metohija? It was about policy standards before status; now it's not about that anymore, now it's about policy of standards and status at the same time. They'll be talking soon – first status, then standards. Simply, there is no multiethnic Cosmet, because Albanians do not want to live in peace with Serbs. The solution for Kosovo and Metohija, as far as Albanians are concerned, is that there are no Serbs in Cosmet, and I guess that's clear to everyone after several centuries. What is happening today in Kosovo and Metohija is the direct consequence of the non-implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The resolution, as you know, as well as all other Security Council resolutions, has a binding character, it was brought on the basis of the UN Charter of Chapter VII. She was the result of the bombing of our country and our people. It is not ideal, but you still mention it today as something that is the only straw of salvation, which today holds Kosovo and Metohija within the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and our people. Those who insisted that the resolution be passed, and among other things there were the famous Ahtisaaris, they do not respect the resolution today. I would like to remind you that the resolution reads – peace and security for all citizens, the disarmament of terrorists, the return of refugees and displaced persons, the return of Yugoslav personnel, military and police, for certain purposes and essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. Of the 280,000 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, only 2% have returned to that province. Some 215,000 non-Albanians still live, and some 150,000 Serbs live. Since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, more than 7,500 terrorist attacks in Kosovo have killed more than 1,200 Serbs, injured and injured more than 1,500 people, destroyed and damaged more than 150 churches and monasteries. In Kosovo, terrorist gangs, not al-Qaeda itself and mujahedins, should not go that far. The KLA and the Albanian National Army are members of the official Kosovo structures, the Protection Corps, the Kosovo Police Service, the Government and the Kosovo Assembly and the Metohija and, of course, political parties. Only a few Albanians are on Carla del Ponte's list to be in front of The Hague tribunal. So, if it is found there, it is soon released to defend itself from freedom, to do a bit of politics, until the final verdict is given to it. They implemented an ethnic cleansing policy, not only to remain at large, but also to be released when arrested on the basis of an Interpol warrant, and the previous government of Serbia took part in this, sending messages that they are warrants of the former regime that are not now in force in some new regime. These were APBs, ladies and gentlemen, for terrorism, against those people who killed not only Serbs, but other loyal citizens of the Serbian state. Unfortunately, there is customs between Serbia and Cosmet today, although Cosmet remains a formal part of Serbia, even after Security Council Resolution, and there is no customs duty between Cosmet and Albania. Today, citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo, when they move to Serbia or when they want to exercise certain rights within Serbia, outside Kosovo and Metohija, are often treated as second-class citizens. There's no unique information space. That's what I've said a hundred times and I'll do it again. When it was March 17th, when ethnic cleansing took place in Kosovo and Metohija, RTS and other Serbian media had direct reporters and footage of US troops entering Baghdad, Afghanistan and other cities in the world, and a picture of the burning mosques from Belgrade was spinning all night, while in Kosovo and Metohija the Serb saints were burning and killing people. Do we feel that Kosovo is still part of Serbia's national and state space? If our media can't go there, if our politicians don't go there, if our businessmen prefer to develop business in Tirana, not in Kosovo Mitrovica or in Gracanica, then how did we have the right to ask those Serbs who live there to stay there without us even leaving, not to consider Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of our country? Economic assistance to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the economic development of Serb parts of Kosovo and Metohija is crucial, as without it Serbs will not be able to stay there to live. Of course, it is evident, and that is what is most important, since today we are talking about the course of the negotiation process, and it is evident to all that a process of easy skating Kosovo towards independence is taking place. This has happened on several occasions, and it has been shown that the European Commission has discussed this on several occasions, as if it were a special mechanism, therefore independent of Serbia-Montenegro, to raise the issue of Kosovo's and Metohija's participation in the stabilisation and association process. A European partnership for Kosovo was also announced. So, as you know, every day you can hear from the Contact Group that they allegedly don't know what they're going to suggest, but it will not be allowed, as they say, to return to the state before 1999, to join another state or part of another state and not be allowed to divide Kosovo and Metohija. Anyone who is politically intelligent or who has a natural logic, if they rule out all three of the options that are listed, doesn't need much to play political hide-and-seek and think about what's left of it as a possibility. It should not be hidden, it should not hide that there are large centres of power, among other things, among the Contact Group members and among those who run these negotiations, such as Ahtisaari, who advocate Kosovo and Metohija independence. I believe that our country's response to such an announcement of prejudge to a final solution should be strong, determined and unique. So leave the negotiations and break diplomatic relations with those countries that advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That's what one serious state does. If the formula "more than autonomy, less than independence" is enigmatic, I think it is prescribed from Resolution 1244, which is essential autonomy and significant self-government for Kosovo and Metohija within the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, just as it is written in Resolution 1244 of the UN. That resolution was voted here; that this resolution would be accepted in this assembly by Serbia was bombed for several months. She was accepted as a condition for ending the war. Who today has the right to change the conditions under which the war ended? Also, we believe that the international mission, military and civilian, is responsible for implementing Resolution 1244. This means that until the talks on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija are completed, everything must be done to ensure that the resolution that is in force is respected, an attempt to resolve the final solution must be stopped, the policy of the final act must be stopped. If there are no more Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, we have reached the policy of the final act. As for the exposé itself and the report, as far as the SPS is concerned, that's acceptable for us. So, among other things, because anything that contains a few key questions is acceptable to us. First, it comes from Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. If it deviates from this rule and from this principle, our country has a completely legitimate and moral right to demand that it depart from this principle in other territories as well. I'm not a man in high state office. I have the freedom to say this, perhaps more freely than you do what you do: how is it possible for the entire territory of the former SFRY to be subject to the principle of non-violence of borders, and then it is not possible to form neither autonomous nor any other republic, Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska, and when it comes to the issue of Serbia, then it is possible to deviate a little from the principle. If he deviates from the principle on the case of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia should ask the issue of Republika Srpska. How can there be different cases? It's possible as long as we don't ask why and how it's possible. Also, for us, this report and the exposé are acceptable and because it comes from essential autonomy and significant self-government of Kosovo and Metohija, as a form of a political solution to the crisis from various UN Security Council resolutions. It is very important and ready for a peaceful and agreed solution, but that the final verification is given by the National Assembly and citizens. What is most significant, and we can call it whatever you want, is the provision we adopted at the last session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which reads - any imposed solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija must be declared illegal, illegal and invalid. It's a key thing. I want here to stand very hard and publicly against all those who say in advance that the battle we are fighting is lost. Kosovo and Metohija are not lost. So some said earlier in all the authorities and opposition parties, in all these years after us, that the issue of the Republika Srpska Krajina was lost and that it was not worth fighting for, that the issue of Republika Srpska was lost and that it was not worth fighting for, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija was lost and that it was not worth fighting for either. Then what's worth fighting for? All you have to do is fight for your chairs. We have no reason to believe that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of a final act, but we believe that public opinion is being deliberately created in Serbia, where it will look perfectly normal. The negotiating team, the Serbian government and the president of the Republic, elected by citizens, must strongly oppose it. Each Serbian government and each Serbian president will face only one question -- whether they will sign Kosovo and Metohija's independence, whether they will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence by their signature. That is why all these years Serbs are wanted, both in Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, which will sign such a document. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable President, distinguished ministers, respected citizens, I am convinced that there is no politician in Serbia, in any party that is to sign Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We must prevent all forces from repeating Rambui. I would like to warn the negotiators – only 20 minutes of direct negotiations were held in Rambuje. For 20 minutes, foreign parties spoke directly and negotiated, everything else was a shuttle of diplomacy. That will certainly happen again in these conversations. As for the SPS, I say once again, there is no need for anyone to ask the question about how we and Metohija will vote. We will always vote in favour of any text saying that Kosovo is part of Serbia, because we will fight with all our strength not to accept any imposed solution, because without a state, without Kosovo, without Serbia, there is no SAA, there is no DS, there is no DSS or SRS, there is no political party without our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24460	Mr. Stevanović, you've been contacted before by Mr. Petrovic. He has the words of the president of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24461	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs, the report we received today has been somewhat broader and more comprehensive, and contains one part of the historical presentation, than what the negotiating team has been doing since the moment of its formation. The Democratic Party will vote in favour of a report on what the negotiating team has done. In the history of this issue in this congregation and outside this congregation, there were different views on different issues. The Democratic Party remains in its position, but I think we have entered the stage that it is invaluable to be able as a state, as a political being, to lead a policy that will have the opportunity to bend, articulate and dedicate this issue to the greatest power we can at this point, after the difficult history we have lived, to give and to give. The negotiating team had one part of the activities related to general issues, one start of activities that opened the status issues, but what technically important and important happened were the negotiations and the first round of negotiations held in Vienna last week. I believe, and that's what someone here said, that there is no too much point in dealing with this issue unless there are Serbs in Kosovo. It is precious that the start of the activities Serbia has is dedicated to issues that should make life easier for our people living in Kosovo today and who are actually representing us, Serbia in Kosovo. It is very important that our position on what the police in Serb municipalities should look like, what the judiciary should look like, what schools Serbs and other non-Albanians should go to when cultural institutions are organised, what hospitals should be organised health care, how to organise a social care system for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. I think this is the point where we actually have to evaluate and how general opportunities are developing. I'm sorry no one talked about it. I know this is a subject that is challenging for all who deal with politics, because it is easy to talk about Kosovo and Metohija in passwords. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe it is not disputed that we are all patriots. I'm sure the ones I don't agree with in the deepest part of my life want us to work this out in a good way, too, but I think the ones I disagree with most deeply don't do it the right way. But we're here to debate and discuss how anyone looks at the solution to this big, hard, important state issue. Kosovo Albanians did not want the negotiations to start like this. The Serbian side has requested decentralisation to be a topic at the beginning of these negotiations. They asked Kosovo Albanians to settle everything in the package, not to talk about decentralisation until the status issue is resolved, and they have a very clear and simple stance -- they want independence. It wasn't exactly what Albanian politicians wanted. This round of negotiations has been held and the DS maintains that the negotiating team has done a good job. I also want to draw attention to something that hasn't caused enough attention here. The next round of decentralisation talks is scheduled for March 17th, on the day of the pogrom that was committed against our countrymen, but also the moment when I think the state of Serbia has managed to prevent the process that has really led our countrymen from Kosovo and Metohija. On March 17th, three very important topics will be discussed. The first topic is financial policy for areas where Serb municipalities are the majority. There's no self-government like there's no state, unless she's got nothing to support herself from. It is important that we express our view on how Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should finance those functions that are the result of the agreement in this process that we are now conducting. Another important thing is horizontal links between the current Serb municipalities and Serbian municipalities, which I am sure will be formed in Kosovo and Metohija. That will be the essence of what we call an entity that Serbs will have in Kosovo and Metohija in one way or another. The third topic is ties between local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija with Belgrade. They did not, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Albanians wanted these negotiations to go like this. I think it's a very important thing that's happening right now. Is she decisive? Is it big? We'll see in the end. As it is irresponsible and bad to say that our country stands well on this issue, and each of us knows that it is not, today I will not talk about the causes of the situation in which we are today, because it is not time to talk about it, it is not time to waste our national energy. Serbia today requires anyone who deals with policy commitment and wisdom to save what is being saved from our national and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. As for status, numerous diplomats have passed through Belgrade; one said one thing, the other said the other. Right, Mr. Sawyers said at one point that his government is holding that independence would be a good solution, so from what I've seen, he retarded soon afterwards, same here in Belgrade. That's not good. I've never heard or heard of Mr. Wisner, who was the representative of the President of the United States, telling the public in Serbia that the US government shares such an opinion. Maybe someone saw it and heard it, I didn't. I read the paper and watch electronic media all the time. I think it is very important that one of the great forces appeared in a statement and in a statement by President Putin defined one principled and I think of our positions and of our opportunities a very important position Russia now has. I see no reason why anyone calls for commitment and attention when relations between Serbia and Russia are at stake. I know for a fact that Russia is expressing a lot of understanding for the policy that Serbia is leading on Kosovo and Metohija. That understanding was shown by President Putin when he and President Tadic had a meeting in Moscow. That understanding was repeated by Russian President Mr Poltavchenko's special envoy here in Belgrade a few days ago, and I think it's very good and very important and it helps the position our country has. What do we do? The Democratic Party considers it, and will support it as it has supported so far, that Serbia is leading a responsible policy. Responsible politics is a struggle, a diplomatic struggle. If we have clearer and higher proposals for how Albanians can organise their political overall public life, how Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija can organise their political and overall public life, the chances of maintaining the greatest measure of our national and state interests are increasing. The Democratic Party supports what the negotiating team has done so far and will provide strong support for the policy I have talked about in the future. There are some issues open here that do not affect Kosovo and Metohija. Some questions have been referred to DS. I'll answer everyone, but not today. This is neither the time nor the place to talk about our divisions nor our different political views. I am ready for dialogue and for a political fight with everyone, and with those who earn in this assembly as we speak about Kosovo and Metohija, with those with whom civilised dialogue can be conducted, but that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not the topic of today's session. I am convinced that we have the strength and the power to fight for the protection of our interests. He who helps himself and God helps him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24462	The word has been given by the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9, Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24463	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Republic, Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I expected this assembly to be a little different. I didn't expect any political points to be important to us today, that it's side-by-side. I was expecting a slightly different atmosphere. Today is a special day, I would say, an important topic, an important day, and it seems to me, a day when we have to take care of every word we say. I expected many things to appear today, to be warned, to say that the situation is alarming, but to say from when it's alarming and how it's coming out. So, I expected things to be different in this congregation today. This topic, most important and most important, we've talked a lot today and we're going to talk about it today, and it's been years and years, but somehow we've always, even on this subject, used some words that we can't use, and we've talked about briefly. I don't know why we need it. We're replicating today, and I don't know why we need it. So, we're just tripping about our own legs, we're tripping each other, and that's exactly why we're here. Somehow we're either a little bit sheltered in our trenches today, so from these positions, it seems to me, we're saying a little bit on purpose, and we'd say, let's say, like, monarchs now -- yes, we're not, and here we are, and it seems like we have to put all of this aside. Of course it should be pointed out, that it should be warned, of course it should be called to the Constitution, to the minimums. And who are we, gentlemen, warning? Kostunica and Tadic? For God's sake, I guess we should warn the ones they're negotiating with. It's an approach, I think, that had to be present here and that we had to make it clear to the end, and we had to, I said, make a conclusion and see something from this atmosphere. Finally, what should be the result, what should be the contribution of this session, and some of the future when we have another report – so for me and for us, full and absolute support to the negotiating team, trust in the negotiating team and absolute unity on this subject. That's what I was about to say, our parliamentary group insists on unity and has full confidence in both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister as negotiators on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24464	Anyone else want a word? The head of the parliamentary group for European Serbia, Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, Mr President of the Republic and Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government, I would like to point out at the beginning that it is a great shame that the debate on the first report by the National Assembly on the course of negotiations on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija takes place in the atmosphere of major animosities and within political conflict. This is despite the fact that the basic tone that prevailed and insisted precisely in this place, in this National Assembly, when the debate on the Kosovo and Metohija resolution was held, was to achieve unity. That tone was also too prominent, given that it was then also meaningful to hear and harsher disagreements and objections to the proposed Resolution, and to correct its certain parts, as the argumentation of individual parties and MPs who proposed the amendments was firm and the approach was constructive. Instead of such a relationship, any other opinion, I must remind myself, it was marked retail as treason and carelessness for Serbia's state interests. Now the negotiation process has started and it is quite clear that the demonstration of deep divisions, even insisting on divisions between politicians in Serbia on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, is just like projecting future decisions, with the insistence on defining both our relationship and attitude towards it, for now still hypothetical, decisions, can crucially weaken and make it difficult for us to have any easy position that we have, primarily in view of the difficult issues we face as a state and the fact that the political climate is not going to our end. I need to find a few facts. First of all, the process of losing Kosovo and Metohija began with the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, following a capitulation in the war with the NATO Pact forces. By withdrawing the military and police from Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia essentially gave up sovereignty in that part of the territory, and the National Assembly, I recall, voted that. And that, fellow MPs, was the price for the lost war. For six years in Kosovo and Metohija, no Serbian laws have been in force, the authorities are running temporary institutions, Kosovo and Metohija are managed by the international community, and there is no place in a civilized world where citizens live as hard as it is today with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in the light of all this is the most significant and complex state and national issue of Serbia, as the Prime Minister concluded in his opening speech here. And that's why I once again underline that the cold head is what we need to deal with that problem. The issue of our approach to resolving the Kosovo issue must be in agreement, in unequivocal and sincere agreement, with the declared state goal, which is to become a full member of the EU. This means that there will be EU flags at our borders in the future, and that political and other priorities will be the safety and quality of life of our citizens, especially our countrymen in Kosovo who now live in unbearable conditions. Therefore, in addition to the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are the most significant state and national issue, it must be pointed out that for Serbia, resolving issues about Kosovo and Metohija is above all both a democratic issue and a question of respect for human rights. The uncompromising and persistent imposition by our team is precisely about the quality and conditions of life for the Serbian and other non-Albanian minorities in Kosovo and Metohija is the basic and strongest potential, because it is undisputed and cruelly visible how difficult the situation of Serbs in Kosovo is, how far away from the elementary civilization norms, and not just European ones. A situation in which the Albanian majority did not only contribute to the better position of Serbs and other non-Albanians, but also carried out open ethnic cleansing, such as on 17 March 2004, and today it does so in a less visible way, leaving most Serbian enclaves without electricity, is more than clear evidence that the province's status in Kosovo is solely a national issue, not a democratic, nor a question of respect for human rights, as they want to present it. So the question of decentralisation discussed at the beginning of the negotiations is an opportunity to return the story to the concept of the big door – standards before the status. The way and conditions in which today, in the 21st century, an area under the direct control of the international community, Serbs live, is a defeat of exactly the values on which the concept of modern Europe, with the exception of Kosovo, is based, was implemented in the rest of its work at an acceptable level. How to conclude from this report, our negotiating team represents a position on decentralisation of government in the province, which should result in the organisation of a Serb entity, which, apart from existing municipalities with the Serbian majority, should include a number of newly created municipalities. For municipalities, full autonomy is required in the fields of culture, health, social policy, finance and economy, local police and justice. Also, our platform provides horizontal links between municipalities and special ties with Belgrade, that is, Serbia. I believe that this approach to decentralisation is a good basis for the start of negotiations and that the strategic concept of autonomy in the context of autonomy, as I recognise it, leaves our team with maneuvering space when it is discussed specifically and directly on Kosovo's future status. However, I believe that this approach also hides serious traps. First of all, one accepted model can also be seen as a principle on which national minorities in Serbia will be invited in the future in those areas where the majority population, such as in southern Serbia or Vojvodina, are made up. Secondly, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija itself, and if such decentralisation is established, it can happen in the future to lead to isolation, because it is impossible to rule out the possibility of further international tensions, which is exactly what is in political terms destroying the political life of Serbs in Kosovo. We must not forget that there are 150,000 Serbs in Kosovo today and 2 million Albanians in Kosovo. It is unnecessary, therefore, to seek protection mechanisms under multiethnic joint institutions, such as veto law or the right to make decisions concerning the provinces qualified by a double majority, such as that in Northern Ireland. This would mean that no law or decision can be made without two majority, Albanian and Serbian. Serbs must be asked for a more influential role in joint institutions. Achieving such goals would contribute most to not only the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but would encourage the return of those who are exiled and currently displaced. What Serbs in the province face today are fear and discouragement, as well as the impression that they were left behind. Few who visit them, no one honestly sees the problems of an ordinary man. This year, many fewer children were enrolled in schools than in previous years, which speaks of the trend of further emigration. The fear boosts conflicts in Belgrade over resolving Kosovo's problems. It is our obligation, first of all, to take care of the lives of our people in Kosovo, to encourage him to take his own responsibility and active role in resolving our own life issues, not to do anything that will lead them to an even worse position than where they are and thus prevent further emigration. Territories are important, of course they are important, but sovereignty can only be spoken of if Serbs remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija. They will remain in Kosovo and survive only if through these negotiations conditions are met for their safe and quality life. The survival of our people in Kosovo is a fundamental measure of the success of these negotiations. The key to the success of the problem we are talking about today, but not only him, I want to underline it, is in a partnership relationship that we need to establish towards those who play a crucial role in the EU and the international community today. Excessive confrontation with the international community is devastating for our interests. An open conflict and, God forbid, war would actually be a tragic end for all of us. Although I believe that will not happen, that fact must be kept in mind. Serbia – a partner of the international community in the Balkans – is not Serbia – the problem of the international community in the Balkans. Unfortunately, some influential international factors still see us as a problem. It is our chance to take advantage of all our democratic potentials, it is our weakness in the sense that we have not yet fulfilled all our international obligations, thus undermining our own democratic capacity. The implementation of our obligations to The Hague, the continuation of association and stabilisation negotiations, the resolution of the state union issue, the entry into the Partnership for Peace, the adoption of a new constitution, that is the way towards full partnership. Often and disturbing statements, which come from even the highest places, concerning the prejudge of Kosovo's final status and Metohija, that is what fellow MPs here have said in detail, and statements cannot be ignored, nor can they be mated by holding two or three press conferences in Belgrade. The only way to do that is to keep talking to those who have this kind of attitude. Our team legitimately refers to international law as a starting point in the negotiations, but the final decision, we all know, will be politics. It is in the political sense that the most controversial decision is to make a decision on Kosovo and Metohija's final status at the moment. No reference condition for the quality change in the province's status has been obtained. Questions such as the degree of democracy, respect for human rights and security are wide open and take time to meet them. That is why I believe that the proposal put forward by President Boris Tadic in its performance before the UN Security Council, that the decision should be extended until the previous issues are resolved, is an approach worth maximum attention, which requires the most active diplomatic approach and activity. Kosovo is absolutely not a democratically organised society. Serbia is still democratically building. The Balkans is securely sensitive to sudden changes. To conclude: Serbia with Kosovo in the European Union, in its political and security structures. It's a policy that's our kind of guarantee of stability and prosperity. All that is happening in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija is in an unbreakable relationship with this declared state goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24466	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24467	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Members of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. It is not true that the National Assembly has accepted any capitulation. The Kumanian Technical Agreement is not a capitulation. Today, it is dangerous to claim here and it is water on the guideline for Albanian negotiators. Nor did the army of this honorable people capitulate Kosovo. We do not help those who do not ask us to help them. Two things are very important to remember. You say today modernly that this state or this government has a democratic capacity for this or that. Just some years earlier, you claimed that the Kosovo and Metohija issue was a democratic issue, as well as Serbia's relations with Montenegro, and that the issue would be elegantly resolved when democratic political parties came to power in Serbia. I thank the prime minister who listed in his address all the years that are crucial to the problem of relations in Serbia between the Serbian and Albanian people. He didn't just mention the Prizren League. We are obliged, obliged to consider each of these facts with seriousness and full responsibility, to give her what meaning it has. So let's not take revenge, but help, if that's possible. The parliament of this state has no right under the Constitution to accept any capitulation, so the claim, made after this speaker, is at least inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24468	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24469	Dear gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, certainly the SPO supports the negotiating team's activities and we will vote in favour of this report today. It's the beginning of the negotiations. If we are serious, we will certainly come to the very negotiations with the desired result. It is very important to the SPO that Mr Ahtisaari accepted the Kai Eide report to direct talks, which in Vienna proved to be extremely useful and high-quality, because in direct talks people understand what their opposites are in a direct way. For the SPO at this stage of the negotiations, it is most important that we fight to form a chain of new municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, with the Serbian or Serbian-Nealban majority, with these municipalities having financial, cultural, health independence, as well as their local police. The municipalities would be connected, certainly, in economic and cultural terms with Serbia. We must fight for the right of the Serbs expelled from Kosovo in 1999 to return, to return these people, whether to these Serb municipalities or to these protected zones that we have proposed to create around monasteries and churches that there are plenty in Kosovo. Certainly, Serbians in Kosovo and Metohija must also be guaranteed citizenship. The Serbian Renewal Movement believes there must be a return of the complete property that has been taken from our people, whether it is in the form of land, apartments, business space, businesses. Only after all this has been achieved can we begin the talks on the future status of the province. Certainly, our negotiating team will advocate a compromise solution. We need all the legal rights of the Albanian majority to be satisfied, and the rights of the Serb people to be maximum protection. We have the basis for this in international law and in the UN Charter. If we go this way, by this procedure, I am quite sure that there cannot be another timetable in Serbia and events of this really difficult issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24470	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DSS, DS-Boris Tadic, SPS. I give my word to the Messenger of the people, Zvonimir Stevic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dusan Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24471	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Ministers, the President of the Coordination Centre, the honourable MPs, because of the problems we have in our Assembly in 2005, as you know, adopted the Resolution on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija and the proposals and the platform for negotiations that were then offered by the Government and later on the debate that was led in the Assembly, when we expressed a high degree of unity, especially in the need for the territorial integrity of our country, with the expectation that the need for the preservation and respect of the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity cannot be ignored by the UN Security Council. In addition, on several occasions we are bound by Resolution 1244 on Kosovo since 10 June 1999. We know what's been going on and how we've been acting. If we put out the chronology of that, I'm afraid we'd be unnecessarily exhausting and wasting too much energy. That's why I'd take it down to one sentence. Despite all the hardships and many difficulties and with some hesitation, a team has been created for talks with the Albanian side, so now that these negotiations have begun, and we have seen a report about the start of these talks, it is essential that at this fateful moment for Serbia and its people we act extremely responsibly. This means that real teamwork, determination, rational and thoughtful action is necessary, in order to be able to reject all attempts, which are not so negligible, to declare Kosovo's independence and to get another state in the Balkans. The hasty statements coming these days from some English and American officials, including Ahtisaari himself, that Kosovo should be given independence, are more than a test balloon, as we tend to comment on that frequently. That is why I believe that all our institutions, state bodies, leaders of political parties and especially our negotiating team and our diplomacy must react significantly faster and more resolutely to these extremely bold and pretentious hints. I would like to say immediately that the Serbs in Kosovo see it – namely, we believe that if there is no energetic condemnation and reaction to those statements, something else is rolling behind the hill and there is something that is hidden from the local public and is tailored somewhere in world cuisine, among world powers. I think there are a number of arguments that our officials are quick and argumentarily responding to all these ominous signals coming from individual centres, which we're pretty mildly rejecting. The twice-arshine international politics in relation to Serbs remains on the scene. What else is suggested that besides the crisis group and the group of eight countries, Kosovo can, in terms of preserving territorial integrity, represent an international precedent. Why is he going over it so easily? Since some of our politicians have joined the team and such thinking, in order to accuse Milosevic for the thousandth time and, they say, his regime for allegedly jeopardising Albanians, Serbs remaining in Kosovo and Metohija and those who have been expelled from there is rising hair on their heads and in their hearts is instilling a new desire that we have no life in Kosovo. How could it not be if the claims were first – first standards, then status, and now independence is required for Kosovo, then application of some standards in the future Albanian state. What life would look like in that secluded state when now that Cosmet is under international protection, Serbs have no electricity for days and at a temperature of minus 20 degrees, when it depends on the mercy of Albanians on whether Serb settlements will get water, whether they will be provided with essential conditions for safe movement and normal life. That is why, like all Serbs in Cosmet, the question is raised for me – what is the fate of the rest of our people in this province if what is the eternal dream of Albanians is the creation of an independent Kosovo? Does the state, including all its institutions and bodies, have any exit strategy and what would it be based on? If, at the time of the start of the negotiations on the status of Cosmeta, many phenomena leading to the paved path to independence are happening, what should Serbs expect tomorrow when Kosovo's future status is defined? For the illustration, I will mention the abolition of the traffic connections between the Serb environments and the central part with the northern part of Cosmeta and Serbia, which is only a new blow to any unbearable conditions for the life of the remaining Serbs in those areas. The transporter van, most often the only possible connection with Serbia's central part, requires Kosovo's police service on behalf of taxis to carry out this job 5,000 euros. This step is nothing more than a new threat to send a message to Serbs what they expect if they want to do some more serious work. On the roads, police take away the drivers of the document, charging fines at 300 euros each. Another illustration is the abolition of mobile phone connections that depend exclusively on the will of Kosovo operators. There are a number of other examples, such as threats to Serbs and attacks against them in Cernica, Kosovo Pomoravlje, the robbery of Serbs, their houses in Svinjar, in northern Cosmeta, etc. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes it is necessary, at the very stage of negotiating, that the competent institutions of our country now show much more concern for the Serbs in Cosmet, because any impunity, indiscretion of institutions and its individuals is seen as a rejection of the work of the population that is unprotected in these areas. It is therefore very unfavorable to interpret months of late payments in fees, otherwise minimal, for workers who have lost their jobs in Kosovo, children's allowances, social benefits and many other problems. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are aware of the difficulties facing our country in international relations and particularly threats and blackmail, dictatorships and warnings coming from Albanian lobbyists in some Western centres, but they want their country's top representatives to gain strong confidence that they cannot accept any solution imposed on us in resolving Kosovo's final status. In other words, Serbs from Cosmeta expect their country and its officials to fight an extremely responsible battle for a favourable outcome in resolving the status issue, because there are doubts and hesitations that could lead to extreme pessimistic thinking, in case solutions move in an unfavourable direction, to make decisions in Serbian countries, and to highlight the inscriptions on collective departure from Cosmeta, which would be a step undetectable in the history of the modern world, about abandoning the work of the people and of their predominantness, the cradles of statehood and spirituality. In the end, Mr. President of the State, Prime Minister, given that it was not a working parliament, that I had talked to people, received numerous delegations, many letters, asking for an answer from top state officials to tell the truth about Kosovo and Metohija and what the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is. It's more and more that Hamlet's dilemma - stay or go. Stay, accept the Albanian regime and assimilation, or go, shut down and root out the roots of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija for all time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24472	The People's MP Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let the MP Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24473	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Republic of Serbia, I will use my time simply to share with you some thoughts and to engage in controversy with people who are advocates of Kosovo's independence. These are, above all, people gathered in some influential foreign NGOs. Four reasons are usually the instructions why Kosovo should be independent: the first, that close to two million Albanians live in Kosovo and Metohija; second, that they do not accept the regime of the Republic of Serbia in any segment; third, to threaten violence and the fourth argument, which appeared several weeks ago, is that Serbia must be punished for everything that Milosevic's regime has done over the past decade. The first three arguments are easy to challenge. First, I don't want to get into whether two million people live in Kosovo or less, but also in Republika Srpska lives a million Serbs, not thrilled by the fact that they are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Albanians do not want to accept Serbia's regime, but neither Igor Smirnov's regime in Prinestrovlje accepts the regime of official Kishinjev, nor southern Ossetia, nor Abkhazia accepts the official Tbilisi regime in any segment, and yet I do not see Moldova and Georgia being torn apart. Why only break up Serbia? Third, to threaten violence in the era of European integration, in the era of era of eradicating national, defining transnational goals, and it is not so smart, so this argument is being mentioned less and less. So it remains the fourth, which is that Serbia must be punished. The term itself speaks of Serbia not wanting to accept such a solution. Often, some foreign politicians, journalists, asked me why Serbia does not want to accept this solution and what is Serbia's interest in keeping Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. In each country, there are two types of objectives, two types of interests. One is national goals, national interests, and the other are strategic goals and strategic interests. It is not pathetic to talk about the national goals and national interests of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. There have been speeches on our part about spiritual verticality and that Serbs have tied much in the cultural, state and religious sense to Kosovo and Metohija. Also, the latest European institutions' analysis of the degree of defetism in Europe shows that Serbs are leading by this character as a people, as a national Corps. I fear what will happen in our society if this degree of defetism increases, what will happen to eight million people, whether their goals, their political elites will radicalise and whether the region will have a future as a whole. As far as our national interests are concerned, I think that in some foreseeable perspective we should consider expanding our economic space to those parts of the Balkan Peninsula on which the Albanians live. It may seem unimaginable to some at the moment, but Serbia should project and reflect its economy towards the south of the peninsula, Kosovo, Albania, towards western Macedonia. These contacts have been interrupted today, but they will slowly be established over time. When we talk about strategic goals, why Serbia needs Kosovo and why Serbia wants to keep Kosovo and Metohija, then we need to respond to what Serbia's strategic interest is in some future period, some ten or fifteen years. I think we will agree that Serbia is the most needed stability in the region, stability and political terms, in the economic, market, social sense, simply to devote the whole region to some other topics, and less to these political topics. Unfortunately, it is impossible to commit to this as long as we have the process of ethnic and national rounding Albanians on the peninsula. I know that many will have different views on this, but I don't think that independent Kosovo itself is the goal. It is a means for further homogenisation, further radicalisation of the Albanian national Corps, to take place in another period. I will give an illustrative example in favour of this thesis: November 28th is Albanian flag day; for a few dozen years, Albanian signs have been pointed out all over the peninsula in all countries where Albanians live. Last November 28, 2005, late Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova promoted Kosovo's flag and the reaction was creepy. The reaction came in Bujanovac and Presevo, with Albanians in Bujanovac and Presevo boycotting the new proposal, a new heraldic sign suggested by the late Kosovo president. The reactions were also in the press in Albania, but the two most radical, most extreme reactions followed in Tetov by the pawning of one of the ideologists of the Albanian political elite Arben Jaferi and we know the flags are on fire. The message was clear -- Kosovo as an ethnic and national entity does not exist for the Albanians themselves, Albania provides ethnic and national identity to all Albanians, so Arben Jaferi himself said that he cannot speak of the Kosovoers as a people, Kosovo as a state of Kosovar, nor of the characteristics of Kosovo, either heraldic or others. The very beginning of the negotiations did not bring us much, and when I tell us, I mean both Serbs and Albanians, so for both negotiating sides, it will take a long time to show one complete result. It is good that the conversation began and respected these strategic and national interests and objectives we are about to pay attention to two things. It's one time, and the other is the timing of our moves, or one tactical match we're going to have with the Albanians. As far as time goes, we should insist on meeting as often as possible, on speeding up this dialogue, but I think that at the same time we should insist that nothing is going on. The ceremony has brought a lot of bad things not only in the former Yugoslavia's space, but also to Southeast Europe as a whole. As far as our tactical games are concerned, the placement of our views, I think it is an example of how we act on the reaction of Albanian politicians and Albanian press in Pristina. And I don't think anyone can be more serious about that by now. Our moves and the definition of our moves – my honest opinion is that they must be well-coordinated and that we must have a unique performance. I understand, it is human that Kosovo and Metohija are treated at certain times as a party issue and as a subject where a certain percentage of the vote can be earned, but after 1999, to this day, it tells us that if Serbia does not have one monolithic position, clearly defined, supported by all, then it cannot hope to fulfill that attitude. We must no longer allow ourselves the luxury of discussing whether to go out or not, whether to participate in Kosovo institutions, boycott them or obstruct their work. Simply, we need to sit down and agree on a unified basis and step forward in some of the following periods, because we may have a situation where on one side we have an Albanian monolith that keeps repeating -- independence or failure, and on the other hand we have seven or eight Serbian politicians with seven or eight different views, which then both international representatives and Albanians can choose as with the menu, with whom they will talk, classify into similar and inappropriate ones. I think we learned this lesson during 2004 and 2005 and I think something has changed in representing Serbian interests. Kosovo's advocates have left aside legal arguments, especially international law, so when it comes to Kosovo's future status, because they prefer to talk about real politics, and some of these four reasons against Kosovo's independence are real policy, but our current position is real policy, which is that we come to a compromise dialogue, that we are deeply committed to negotiations, and I think that this way Serbia shows great democratic capacity at the moment and proposes solutions that are in line with European standards. If the international community itself, whatever it means, wants to disrupt this democratic capacity, wants to continue its efforts against European standards, I fear that in the future it cannot talk about Europeanisation of the Balkans and we cannot talk about the Balkans as an integrated part of the European Union. At this point, Serbia and the European Union share the same principles, the same attitudes, and I think the process of harmonising with the interests of some major states should continue. It has been said here today that most of the Contact Group's member states are in favour of Kosovo's independence, it has been heard earlier in the press that the status has already been determined. If we are already talking about the views of states that will be asked about Kosovo and Metohija, I must say that Kosovo and Metohija would already gain independence and statehood to meet four goals set before the Albanians themselves. First, they didn't meet the standards in any single part. Secondly, Kosovo's economic perspective is also unclear, foggy, with an economic and social situation that is today catastrophic. Third, no one hides that there is a high maturity of Albania's institutional system in Kosovo itself. And, fourthly, the open issue that makes no decision on Kosovo and Metohija is what makes up for Serbia to take away Kosovo and Metohija or Belgrade's consent that Kosovo and Metohija can be independent. These first three things, if they haven't been fulfilled in the past six years, I don't see it coming in the next nine months, and as far as these fourth things are concerned, when it hasn't been defined what the compensation to be given to Serbia is, I don't know how it's going to be defined in about the next nine months. These four things, in addition to all our legal and political arguments, leave enough room for us to correct our negotiating position and in the negotiation process, but also to agree to all international partners to define a solution that will suit us. What is most important, Serbia has defined one solution that will not answer only to us, which will also correspond to our neighbours to Albanians. Of course, at the very first moment it seems unacceptable for Albanians, but I think it should expect a kind of diplomatic and political pressure on them to agree to compromise and to come to Kosovo's final status through dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24474	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24475	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister, representatives of the Serbian government, and I would say – Mr. President, but Mr. President does not like to hear what Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are saying, at least publicly, and then it will not be a big problem for him that I will not particularly welcome him. So today in Serbia we have a difficult, serious and responsible debate on the future of Kosovo and Metohija and the future of Serbia. It seems to me that someone is creating a climate in our people, in our society, as if Kosovo had been lost by pushing information into their media that it was Milosevic, guilty radicals in 1999, to God's Kosovo crisis had never existed before, and forgetting their DOS rallys before they came to power in 2000. Already in 1999, since the preface rally, by October 5, 2000, tens of times and hundreds of times in all media have repeated one single thing, which is that Kosovo is a democratic issue and that they, upon coming to power, with their democratic friends from the West, will easily and without major problems solve it. It's a question of democratic standards, otherwise no one will ever be able to hijack our country's territory. Since then, except for nearly 1,000 killed Serbs, we have not seen what has been fulfilled of these democratic standards, we have not seen Serbs return to Kosovo and Metohija, as co-ordination centres from year to year brought plans and programmes on how Serbs should return to the territory of the southern Serbian province. Most importantly, we have more and more frequent and more serious threats to the kidnapping of our territory. Not to be confused, since one of the representatives of the President of the Republic said that territory is not important, that important people are, yes, of course, important people, but it's also important territory. You do not have a country without territory, and it is more than 13% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, only those whose territory is not particularly important or which territory is not interested. That was said by Dragoljub Micunovic, he repeatedly repeated in public and said that territory is not significant. I don't know what he thought was important if the territory wasn't significant. Of course people are significant, no one has ever slowed it down, but I don't know what that has to do with the territory, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the highest legal acts of our country. At the same time, we are attending the devaluation of what should represent the interests of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, daily. What's this about? The rhetorical approach to solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija must change with our representatives. The president of the UN cannot speak of Serbs as minority people in Kosovo and Metohija, because Serbs cannot be minority people in Kosovo and Metohija, nor have they ever been. I was against what Milosevic used, what his lawyers called a political squawk, so they called it a Serb community and an Albanian community, so on my question as to how possible, because we are a Serb people, and Albanians are a national minority, they said -- you know, in that territory we are a minority. What does that mean? Will Serbs be the first community and then a minority in seven municipalities in the north of Vojvodina, as you have singled out Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs are not and cannot be a national minority on the territory of their republic, on the territory of their country and on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, in Tito's Avignon Yugoslavia or national minority in Croatia, or in Bosnia and Herzegovina, let alone in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, let alone in our country. We have a few problems that we are facing today and that we need to speak openly with our citizens and about which we need to be quite clear, unequivocal and our messages must be clear. I have singled out a sentence from a report that I will read to the citizens of Serbia, which speaks very significantly about the behaviour and responsibility of Albanians. It is said: "This opportunity needs to be mentioned several key elements of the Albanian platform. First, whatever decentralisation agreement has been reached, its implementation will not begin before an agreement on what it literally stands for is reached ′ a package in general′, i.e. until an agreement on an acceptable package of final status solutions is reached. "Then what are we talking about? What are we talking about? This means that when you talk about decentralisation, about areas, as envisaged by the Serbian Government's plan, or entities, how does the President of the Republic think of it, or anything else, and I don't know exactly what you're talking about, the question is, are you talking about it if Kosovo is independent? Will someone comfort the citizens of Serbia by saying – Kosovo Mitrovica, Lešak, Leposavic, Zubin Potok, Zvecan got special status or special autonomy, or I don't know what to say, so they'll say – here's the monastery getting us trillions of euros, trillions of euros, I don't know what either. Who's going to go to those monasteries? Who will go to those monasteries if Kosovo gets independence? What people are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? What people are you talking about, who will stay in Kosovo and Metohija if Kosovo is independent? What's all this nonsense? Who will live in Kosovo and Metohija if it becomes independent if it leaves Serbia? What standards and miracles are we talking about here? No one will or will count in dozens of these people. What are we talking about today and who are we trusting? That's what we couldn't hear from the representatives of the motionary of this report. Who do we trust today if Resolution 1244 is not respected, if it is not implemented? What about the annex second, point six? Who is asking to do this, which is an official explanation, tell us who told us – we will not implement what the UN Security Council has brought? They didn't bring it into Serbia's interest, they brought it against Serbia. They won't do the part that likes Serbia, the only part, one sentence corresponds to Serbia. That's the only sentence they're not going to put into action. Then what are we negotiating? Who are the guarantors? What are the guarantees for? What are the guarantees? What are we talking about? Tomorrow we will achieve, say, a team for negotiations an extraordinary result and sign and the Security Council brings a new resolution and they say – we will implement what we like. And what we don't like, or what goes to Serbia in favour, we won't do it in action. Who says that won't happen? I ask you, does the Annex to point 6 of the second point say that certain forces of Yugoslav personnel, security forces, in hundreds, not thousands, will return to Kosovo and Metohija, one of the four items is that they will return to the border towards Macedonia and Albania? Does that say it or doesn't it say it? It says. Why isn't this done in action? You don't have to talk – yes, in 1999 there was, yes, in 1999 was a capitulation, that in 1999 was an occupation, and now they want to activate that part of the territory and that's what's called legally. Don't make it up and talk nonsense all over Serbia that the occupational lighties appear at the same time to speak – oh, oh, the term occupation is mentioned. Well, which one? Did your mother and father write to you the Constitution, so you must not stick to the Constitution and say, "The Constitution of Serbia does not apply to you?" But what expression, ladies and gentlemen, when someone is stealing your territory, what is that other expression than occupying your territory? Do you have anything to say to me, what is that expression? It says, well, it's invalid. Oh, no, you don't. How is that defined in legal science, in legal theory, in legal practice, is there anyone who can explain it to me? This reminds me most of the anxiety. Please, since you were so wise as to jump the second Tomislav Nikolic said the word of occupation, so that you may say, "Egg, don't, it's a threat." Who's the threat? They threaten us and come to Belgrade and say, "We'll take some of your territory," and you say, "Don't call it that, don't call it kidnapping territory, don't." It's more important for us to eat pizza hat every afternoon than whether or not they're going to take 13% of our territory. At the same time, you come to the assembly speaker and you say – we need unity, we need an undivided team, we need Serbia to send a clear and unique message, we are in opposition, we are in the SRS. We have a very correct relationship with all the state issues, we don't cause you any trouble anywhere in the country, we've never invited anyone on the street to tear you down. We never wanted to burn the Assembly anywhere and cut the hair of one of your officials' daughters, like you did when you came to power on October 5, 2000. We've never called anything like this, nor will we. What are you calling for? Are you talking about unity? Serbia's president said two weeks ago at his party meeting -- we have two Serbs, or they will opt for a radical Serbia or for my one, a good one. We're a prototype of good, and they're a prototype of evil. Is that the unity you're talking about? Is that what Serbian citizens need to hear from the president of the Republic? Are you the president of all Serbian citizens or just those who are in the DS? Or those you'd like to rule with from G17 plus, or I don't know who's got DS, etc. Praise President Aleksandar Popovic, and you will not listen to what Alexander Vukic says to you. Unfortunately for you, many more people at this point want to hear what Alexander Vukic is going to tell you, rather than Aleksandar Popovic. That goes on. Take a look at today's interview in Politica Milos Aligrudic. According to Milos Aligrudic, here shows the attitude towards the state, what is the attitude towards the opposition, imagine that Milosevic once said – Democrats are unable to exercise power. He said that and that is his title – radicals are not able to exercise authority. He now says that the SRS finds it unable to exercise power actively and responsibly, and now, among other things, what I know about their human resources, I think it's a political party that would have to have tutors in order to eventually exercise power. You're right, Mr. Aligrudic, you have the right to say that. I know it's true, we're not capable of carrying bags and bags with 100,000 euros, and you have them, and we don't have them. Shame on you. You say a tutor is needed. We are not determined by the tutors to vote in the National Assembly and what we will do and what laws to make, but by your tutors. The other day I heard, this guy's got a European haircut, and this guy's got a retro haircut, a politician. You're going to talk to someone about tutors, you're talking about Serbia that needs to be unique. We will vote again, as Tomislav Nikolic said, for the report, because we are creating a problem for you somewhere. We're not making any trouble for you. When we go out to the rally, no grass is crushed, not a window broken, as you've seen. What's your answer? You'll clear people from the Republic Square with a broom, that's your answer. Let's see you. It's such a famous democratic principle, a miracle of democracy. Don't push the people, we won't ask our people to. You are brave and strong and come yourself, if you may. Don't make the wives of Jovo Djog and Zdravko Tolimira from work. What kind of people are you? You're firing their wives from work. Jova Djoga's wife is guilty, so the formational location of the pharmacist on VMA should be shame and shame on you. You're talking about unity, there's no one you wouldn't be persecuting in the way you think it's possible. Are you that brave? Don't make cops, soldiers, you're nice, you're so powerful, so brave, you show that you can catch someone and do something. You come and remove Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic from the Square of the Republic, and do not drive the people, and let's see if you can and can. We will not hide behind the people, nor behind anyone else. We will clearly go out and say, yes, you will have the right to demonstrate and no one will clear you with any brooms or anything else because they are not normal political attitudes. You say occupation is a problem. I ask the Prime Minister today to say what it will be if it happens, God forbid, so we're talking about one percent chance, and I'm afraid it's more, for Kosovo to gain independence. What's that gonna be? I think maybe the closest definition is that it's an anexia. I'm asking you to go out and say, that's how I used to study at law school, maybe I learned wrong, so you fix me up, so you can say, what is it exactly if that's not the case. Or to be joyful, to have the joy and joy of what has happened to us, as some would suggest, in this congregation and outside this congregation. You're talking about representatives and people on the negotiating team. We didn't interfere. You've been told by the head of our parliamentary group, it's fine, we keep quiet and support everything you do. I want to ask you who are representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, whom Goran Bogdanovic, represented by Oliver Ivanovic, whom these people represent. I didn't say he was on the team, but they show up every day; Goran Bogdanovic is on the team and who he represents. You knew how to throw me and answer me a moment ago, and now I ask you, "Who is he representing?" You don't seem to know who he's representing. It represents a party that received 0.5% when the president of the Republic urged them to go to some kind of election. Is that right? So 0.5% of people represent. They got 700 votes. Does he represent them? Whose interests is he talking about? Even his own family won't vote for him, and he's here to represent because he's from the DS, because it's no good for Ljuba Kragovic to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, or someone from the SRS, because they get 60-70%. It takes someone who gets 0.5%, because they'll do it better. They're much smarter there, and there's nothing, they'll do it best. You say, now I'm going to tell you something, for the first time, the MPs will hear you pleading abroad with all possible diplomatic means and a way to fight for Kosovo and Metohija, how well you talk about your political opponents. A gathering organised by Sonja Licht recently took place in Belgrade and was hosted by Susan Woodward from Princeton University. They were representatives of several political parties. He was not a representative of the Serbian Radical Party. Kosovo and Metohija were discussed. So, Susan Woodward speaks his mind and says -- it is assumed that the international community will go to Kosovo's independence. And now you expect a reaction from the representatives of our political parties. Do you know which one it is? And this is important for the public to hear. The DS representative says the following thing – if you (receiving that there is no camera, so it will not be heard and heard), if independence is voted, if it comes to that, it will be terrible in Serbia, radicals will win the elections. It is his argument for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija -- the radicals will win the elections. Susan Woodward says: "What does this have to do with this matter?" Then he shut up. There are representatives of the authorities who were, I see two of them, come out and tell me if I lied. Is this your policy, the Kokus group when it says it's important to deal with the SRS? Is that it, Mr. President? So at half a dozen from your cabinet, before midnight, they send a statement that they have done a lot for the Serbian people, and the most important thing to do is how to deal with the Serbian Radical Party. Is that your policy, is that the policy that the President of the Republic should represent? We are not asked, Mr. President, to comment when you talk about how Serbia should be shared, and how you should argue with Serbian citizens. That's why you find it wise to comment immediately, even when we hold the most common rally as an opposition party, which we cannot mention either you or perhaps the Prime Minister or anyone else, which in this country there must be protected people, sacred cows that no one can talk about. As you can see, they don't exist. When you talk about a unique attitude, as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we have always tried not to argue about Kosovo and Metohija, that we have one single, therefore a unique position. We will continue with this policy, we are more important to Kosovo and Metohija, the state of Serbia is more important to us than our party and our personal political interests. That's why we supported the formation of a team like this and that's why we're not asking you for a hair in your egg in your statements, in your behavior. But what we won't agree to is that you share Serbia and say that you are good, that we are evil, and when we come up with an opportunity to answer you and when we tell you – no, you can't tell the citizens of Serbia, and then you will say – so don't violate unity. We are not a unity, and we will never violate it, at least as far as our country is concerned. Keep the state as much as you got here when you took your oath. In a political sense, it's hard for you if you don't keep what you have in accordance with the Constitution until the end. We don't have a spare country, we have one Serbia and it's more important than both the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party and every other political party in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24476	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. For the replica, Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24477	It would be, of course, very good to talk about what's on the agenda, but everyone makes a decision about how they're going to perform, how they're going to defend their political attitudes and ideas. I want to talk about the facts, who said what, who thought what and document what was important. So here's what the president of Serbia said about a part of what Mr. Vukic was talking about – Serbia will have to define between radicalism and democratic options. I'm not sharing Serbia, I'm finding a situation. The big political moment is being prepared when Serbia will say which way it wants to go. I am sure that democratic Serbia is what its citizens want, not just members of the Democratic Party. What's the problem? So I don't see any problem. It is true that there are citizens who support different political options and different political forces, and it is the citizens who will decide who will manage Serbia, who will have the majority in this parliament, who will make decisions, who will form the government. Dragoljub Micunovic is president of the DS political council. I said I wouldn't talk about things and topics that go beyond what's on the agenda, but, of course, that I'm talking about Kosovo and Metohija, people and territory. What Dragoljub Micunovic said would not be worth the territory if there were no people in those territories. And I'd like someone to quote what Dragoljub Micunovic said, so let's compare whether what I'm saying is true or what was brought out here a few minutes ago. One principle question. So a few speakers talk about what the state needs to do when something else happens, what we're going to do. And how do you know what's gonna happen? They exist in diplomacy, and this is one big and hard diplomatic struggle, things that are said when the time comes and they don't talk when it's not their time. There is no one in this congregation who is not offered to join the negotiating team. Both the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia have opened the door to enter the negotiating team and to be part of the diplomatic process. Why didn't you use your right and your ability to fight for Serbia along with those who make up the negotiating team as this fight can now take place, which is a diplomatic path. All that's said when it's not his time is against this country's interests. You'll decide, like the rest of us, what you estimate to be a state interest. I believe that's what you're doing against the state's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24478	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24479	Since he asks Mr. Petrovic what the problem is, let me tell you what the problem is: in the rudeness of the president of the Democratic Party, because he shares Serbia in radicalism and the democratic option. The president of the Democratic Party argues that the Serbian Radical Party is not a democratic party, that is the problem. These are attitudes for which you from the state register pay people to spread the story in America that the bauk SRS is not a democratic party. Well, help us, who are truly true Democrats, to prevent the radicalisation of Serbia, because in America, when you say the word radicals, everyone is watching where is that bomb that you carry with you. Not Mr. President of the DS to say in America that the word radical in Serbia is the most beautiful political word, that you cannot bind any affair to the word radical, never betray the country, never something that would bring bad and evil to the people, and for the word of the Democrats whatever you want. That's how I listen to the president of the Democratic Party the other night accusing DSS and G17 plus of selling out state property for nothing, so he was stoned, and I'm asking him how Miodrag Kostic got the CK, so he paid off the entire building from two floors, at a time when the president of the DS was a member of the party that sold it. Well, if we're talking about the DS being a democratic power, it just takes a little bit to win the election, I ask her is l′ that emergency, is l′ are these all these unenlightened murders, is l′ this murder of the Prime Minister that no one has enlightened so far, is l′ that what you offer Serbia as a democratic option. Then don't wonder why Serbia doesn't want that democratic option. Serbia wants democracy, but it hasn't seen it here yet, and I admit it. Serbia is still after us (and I am here for how many years, and I have already forgotten when I first entered this hall) couldn't judge what democracy is, but neither can you. This debate should not be used, so I call on the president of the Assembly to return to public life, to start working normally for the Serbian Parliament, to fight as people, without using this debate for each other's conflicts and for fighting. I can't wait for you and the representatives of all the other political parties, you're all the others against us here, I'm exchanging views on this speaker. But not today. Here, let's stop now, right now. I'm waiting to see if maybe the president of the DS will finish the session, so he can match all the discussions and leave the gym. I wouldn't recommend that, Democratic Party President. This is not a session of the Democratic Party's main committee. This is a session of the National Assembly, to which you are called as a man who performs his duties. You should have given us your views at the beginning, as is the case with the president of Serbia, and I will not listen to you here as the president of the DS, because you have resigned here to be president of Serbia. I didn't even hear you as president of Serbia, because your advisor spoke. Well, I can kind of accept that, when a man has counsellors on a subject more capable than he is alone, he tells the counselors – come on. I understand that. I accept that. Your game in the West against the SRS has to stop. It's a game against most Serbian citizens. Your accusations on our account, your cartoons on radicals in the West, stop that. It's not a public story at all. Believe me, in any village or city, they don't appreciate you anymore. What you have to say about the SRS, tell us here openly. Tell us we're traitors, thieves, criminals. Here, Aligrudic told us nicely that we're not for nothing. That's the DSS's position. As soon as the DS presses them to cooperate with the radicals, they will prove that they do not cooperate with the radicals, they will say, "What is wrong with them?" Okay, that's fine. Just as I told the Serbian President's office to forget my phone number, since he lied about what we talked about once, so I'll also tell the cabinet of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica -- forget my number, you'll learn it after the election, when you need something. Regardless of all the conflicts, everything we say today, we will support a team that is doing difficult work on behalf of all Serbian citizens, as long as it keeps us informed as long as its reports are acceptable. There is a point that the team will no longer be able to decide, it will leave it to you and to us, and will once again have our support if they remain consistent. I see representatives of different parties on that team. I wasn't invited and none of us were invited to be on that team. We would disturb you in front of those on whose behalf the representatives go. And I understand that. I'm sorry. [[President: Mr. Nikolic, replica time is up.]] I'd like to prove that you run the Assembly in the most democratic way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24480	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24481	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, without the intention of using this time for replication, let's get one thing straight. The Socialist Party of Serbia has repeatedly said in public that it believes the negotiating team should be composed of representatives of all the political parties that are in this parliament, but because of what Mr Petrovic said -- neither has the Socialist Party of Serbia been called nor has it refused. But not being invited to the negotiating team and not participating in the negotiating team, that's one political fact, that doesn't mean we'll be against the negotiating team. On the contrary, we will be for those political goals and for those political interests that are in line with the resolution adopted by the Assembly here last year and which will be in line with what is to preserve the territorial integrity and preserve Serbia's living in Kosovo and Metohija, both of them. I think a major shift has also been made out of what is said here, if I may say so, towards this necessary unity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We didn't miss him very much... Unity is also needed in many difficult critical moments. To be honest, unity was needed in 1998 in the Serbian Parliament, when we adopted a report on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against terrorism. Only three Cank and Vesenov MPs voted against it. Everyone else voted for that report. Therefore, it is not us – except during the war, when some individuals advocated the bombing of our country, but it goes to their soul – there was no unity in Serbia's political scene and political parties and the interest in having a single policy on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, that is what Mr. Prime Minister Kostunica said today, who said the essence of this, that problems related to Kosovo's status: terrorism, ethnic cleansing and an attempt to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia for decades. I think we all have to agree on that. The methods of this ethnic cleansing changed, the methods of how Kosovo secededed were changed, the methods were changed, and when it came to exorcising Serbs, etc., but the essence remained the same to date. And today, six years after taking responsibility from UNMIK or the international community, as easier as it is for you, the position of Serbs and other non-Albanian communities in Kosovo is no better. On the contrary, it's worse. The largest ethnic cleansings in Kosovo and Metohija occurred, in fact, after 1999, after July. 300,000 people were expelled. Let us not forget the end of 1987, 1988 and 1989 when trains were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, when trains were full of Serbs we were waiting for and trying to convince them to endure and stay in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia would come to Kosovo, take responsibility and preserve Kosovo. The thesis that we lost management of Kosovo in 1999 – in fact, it is forgotten that by the mid-90s we had absolutely no authority in Kosovo and Metohija. No single police officer, the Serbian police minister, could send to Kosovo by the mid-90s. So let's not invent hot water, but talk about reality, as is historic in Kosovo and Metohija. What do you do next? Of course, the international community didn't even do the basics. I think we totally agree on that. They didn't do the power. Electricity was during the war in Kosovo and Metohija, while the bombing took place. As soon as they came and the power went out, let alone something else. The people also disappeared, the one who should survive and preserve it, which is why they came to Kosovo and Metohija. There's nothing different. We do not think differently here, just to respect ourselves and to achieve this goal of preserving Kosovo and Metohija. When I say that the international community will not return to the period before 1999, even the authorities in 1999 did not want to return to 1998. Who's crazy to go back to 1998, when two-thirds of the territory was occupied, where there were hundreds of thousands of guns, where there were so many terrorists? No one was crazy in 1999 to ask for a return to 1998. And then there was a requirement from the then government to give broad autonomy to Kosovo and Metohija, to preserve the national community in Kosovo and Metohija. And then we agreed on these pledges in the republican parliament, and here in Serbia. What about those 10 points of Milosevic and Holbrooke? Who didn't accept? Not that Serbia didn't accept it, we accepted the OSCE that came to Kosovo and Metohija. The Albanian national community has not accepted. The one, praised today as a great Democrats, did not want to come to the 15 negotiations that were in Kosovo and Metohija, where the delegation and then the president of the Republic came. The Albanian national community did not want to participate in negotiations in October and November 1998, where the international community participated, some of them participated in the last days. Therefore, the international community has forced Serbia to accept it in Rambuje for three years, after which -- hi Kosovo, Kosovo independently, if it does not accept it, will be bombed. Well, she was bombed, and they didn't take it. They can't take it now. Our goal is to go piece by piece and solve the issue of both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, that's why there's support for exposure, first of all, the Prime Minister, but also for a report that's more taxing than ever what's been done, and this is the policy that the Prime Minister said. We support this policy, such as the SPS, and the policy of the negotiating team based on that platform that we discussed today, and the report should continue in the republican parliament. Therefore, advocating decentralisation, advocating other things is quite understandable. It is clear that they cannot take Kosovo and Metohija by force. If they could have taken it by force, they would have taken it on July 1st, 1999. So I can't. I can only be if someone in Serbia is foolishly dared, as a function of the state of Serbia, to sign it, and I am convinced that at least in the present generation there will be no one who wants to do so without saying that he has courage. Something I want to say here, and that's what we need to do independent of the negotiations in Vienna or anywhere, no matter what Ahtisaari says, what he lies to us again. He lied to us in July 1999, which wouldn't lie to us right now. It's not the point, it's what we're gonna do by then. Please, if by 1990 we invested a day as Serbia million dollars in Kosovo and Metohija, we invest at least $100,000 a day in Serbian communities in Kosovo and Metohija, solve their jobs, settle their electricity, solve their jobs. Let's not talk about staying down, and we haven't made any new jobs in six years. Let's not talk about staying down, and we haven't made any new classes of school, a home of health or anything else. We do these specific things until then, no one forbids us, no Resolution, no one else. The negotiating team deals with politics, but the Coordination Centre must deal with operational policy how Serbs in Kosovo can help. Let's not whine when it's March 17th, because in Kosovo there were hundreds of 17 March, if I may say so, but let's see what we've done, whether we've hired ten or fifteen workers, whether the Serbian Development Fund helped open dozens of small plants to keep these families. I ask you to pay attention to this as the Coordination Centre, and the negotiating team (Socialist Party of Serbia accepts today's report and the presentation of the Prime Minister, and I am convinced that everyone will accept it) has the support to insist on the resolution we adopted here, to preserve Kosovo, while of course the local self-government and broad autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, as they want anywhere in the world where there is such autonomy, is accepted and made.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24482	I'm obliged to inform you, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, we'll continue our work after 1800 hours. Now I'm taking a break from 15 minutes. I shall inform the members of the Administrative Board that the session of the Administrative Board will be held on the second floor. The first speaker after the break is Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24483	I ask the MPs to take their seats, we'll begin in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work after the break, in which the Administrative Committee has also held. Before we continue with a single search, where the first word will be made by MP Vladimir Milentijevic, then MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, then MP Zarko Obradovic, I would like to announce the mandate to the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 27(2). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Borko Ilic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Borko Ilic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to take his place. Here you go, my congratulations. We're continuing our work. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic, let the MPs of Gordana Pop-Lazic be prepared, then Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24484	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Report of the negotiating team on the course of talks on a political solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija. As someone said in the hall, today is a great day for us Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija who, from this day forward, expect much from this session. We were expecting and we expect that we should talk only about the Kosovo issue and nothing else. There have been other topics at today's meeting, but it has been promised that there will be no more, so I ask that we devote our time at today's meeting to Kosovo's problem. In particular, the negotiating team has begun its work. Although we all know that the issue of Kosovo is a very difficult issue, that negotiations are hard, uncertain, I am pleased with the unity expressed at today's session of the Serbian Parliament to keep Kosovo in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, in many cases I have negotiated with many negotiating teams in Kosovo and Metohija, all negotiations have been very difficult, difficult, uncertain, untrue, ad hoc from what was agreed. So, not to repeat the predecessors, we had the situation and order of how a solution would come to Kosovo, but unfortunately, these values and these talks, these arrangements, those promises did not meet expectations. The negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija is the real team and the team we have wanted since the start of talks on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. There have been efforts to negotiate the status of Kosovo and Metohija led by Serbs living in Kosovo. It is almost 100% unity, and for a small difference, therefore, those who were personally interested, we had a clear goal and the attitude to negotiate with Pristina must lead Belgrade. That's what happened. The first negotiations, it's only the beginning of the negotiations, show that the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating team have a firm and unique view of keeping Kosovo and Metohija in the form of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there's anyone else in this dilemma, no matter how small we differ in certain ways, but I believe that the negotiations are progressing, that these views will be corrected and that we Serbs from Kosovo will finally understand what we expect. We expect that in these negotiations and in these difficult times, I mean for those of us living in Kosovo, we will be absolutely unique. We don't see one reason not to. After all, in order to be as convincing as possible, we have a daily pledge that the Kosovo issue can no longer be left to anyone, only to the Republic of Serbia and to the Serbs living downstairs. We will decide on Kosovo's status as much as we have strength, as much as we have in common, and I don't think there's any more need to talk about it, because today has given a major shift and it's obvious that we're going to fight together to get Kosovo back where it was, i.e. in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. I deeply believe in the negotiating team. I am deeply convinced that our demands and our questions raised both to the international community and to the UN and the negotiating team will finally come to the agenda and that, according to the Prime Minister, the drama that is over Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved over time. He is likely to have thoughts about the views that Kosovo should be independent. These thoughts don't concern us at all, because these are some of the meshes that go through the negotiating teams, through the talks they promise, it's more like a test balloon, than some of their really imposing solutions, because ultimately, the international right of such thinking doesn't acknowledge. The negotiating team must do its best to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status in the interests of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. We will help them with all this, and we will tell the international community, the Contact Group and the Kosovo and Metohija negotiating team – and in case any decision is made on an independent Kosovo that we, no one and never, will live in an independent Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24485	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the question of Kosovo is not only a myth and it is not very popular that Kosovo and Metohija are spoken of in such a way, although it is a myth, I will remind you, however, of the words of more apostle Paul, who, speaking of faith, said that faith is a constant waiting for what we hope for and proof of what we do not see. I guess we don't all see whether in a country or some abroad, which may be deciding factors, that we're right and that it's on our side and international law. An old Roman reminder says it does not strengthen over a time that has not stood firmly under the law since the beginning. So we have the current protectorate in Kosovo and Metohija, but it is the current state and it must change. I'm saying this because it doesn't begin all of us and that mind-incentives from the past can overcome the collapse of the country in which they came, because it's a happy people who can find support for their modern ways in the past. We do not have the right to surrender ourselves "without resistance" to the dreary thoughts, indifference, by imposing the thesis that we have been defeated, because we have been taken away by Krajina, because we are being kidnapped by Republika Srpska, today an attempt to rob us of Kosovo, who knows where the end is. Under the new circumstances, we must face the fact that the breakup of Yugoslavia has conditioned our concern for Serbs in Krajina and Republika Srpska, and the struggle with Albanian separatistism in Kosovo and Metohija, Muslim in the Sandzak area, Hungarian in the Vojvodina area. The conflicts in the area of the Balkans in the near future, of which the international community is concerned, can spread to the areas of Baskia, Corsica, Catalonia, Valonia, Flandia, Northern Ireland, etc. This would give Europe a whole new picture and, I think, should insist on negotiations. You should also consider before the negotiations that for the fourth time in 20 years Kosovo and Metohija have been targeted by the Western part of the international community. I'm actually trying to help you. The SRS thus thinks about major problems and should speak the language that this Europe understands, because once a precedent is made, then that precedent begins to be a rule. For the first time, the international community faced the problem of Kosovo and Metohija after Albanian separatist demonstrations in 1981, when Serbia was suggested to accept Kosovo as the seventh republic and of that (you know very well, which you have in the negotiations) still have not given up, but it is now not the seventh, but the third. The second time before the secessions of Slovenia and Croatia, when pressure was made to recognise Kosovo Albanians the right to self-determination. The third time during military aggression at the SRJ in 1999, when support for Albanian separatist terrorism was opened was defined as the main military goal of the United States and its European servants. After the aggression ended, it continued, only by other means, under the UN's provisional administration in Kosovo. While the cosmetic Albanians are privileged to claim self-determination, Serbs in Croatia have been disputed and the minimum right to self-determination, and Serbs in BiH are not only denied, but also banned. Serbia is, in fact, the only candidate for the EU today that is required as a condition to disintegrate to integrate. The Hague tribunal, of course, is an attempt to stamp out the largest missing Yugoslavia, for the cause of the Yugoslav crisis, and even for the bombing. It's a constant noose around our necks. The fundamental issue of sovereignty and territorial integrity is being pushed aside, and the first plan is being addressed by the feasibility study, the entry into the Partnership for Peace, as if by joining the EU we will solve all problems. That's why it's about conditional, controlled or delayed independence. These are the traps you must guard in the negotiations. The UN Charter, Resolution 1244, the Paris Charter, the KEBS and other binding documents are being ignored and one of its oldest states is being torn apart on the ground of Europe. We are aware that in the last 15 years this process has started and is still going on. Keep in mind that the real goal of the US and its allies is not the independence of the province at this time, but the republic of Kosovo as a third member of the current state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which is thus set to create a place for Kosovo, which we have warned you about when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was created. If we were not operational, we would be threatened again by The Hague, as it seems now; Milosevic's verdict, which is expected this year, and this search for Mladic, are plowing up and searching for him, because they need him precisely to make the victim guilty, and that the West would be completely amnested by its guilt in the process of breaking Yugoslavia. We need to potentiate the 1913 London Treaty, the 1920 Treaty of Peace, the Paris Treaty of 1947, the final act from Helsinki in 1975, the positions of the Badinter arbitration commission and the European Community decisions of 1991 and 1992, as well as Security Council Resolution 1244, which give us the deed in Kosovo and Metohija. As long as we are referring to these documents, we will have inconclusive evidence and international recognition that Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of Serbia, because all these documents guarantee us. If entering Europe were the most important state interest, and we heard the Prime Minister put Kosovo and Metohija ahead of this state interest, without having previously gained recognition of Serbia's sovereignty throughout the territory, it would surely lead to the loss of Cosmeta. Guarantees of Resolution 1244 that the military and police in a limited amount return to Kosovo and Metohija no one mentions, and no one tells us why. Their deployment, however, would have no psychological but symbolic significance at the international border towards Albania and Macedonia. That's why we think maybe the whole talks should just be conditioned by the return of the military and police to the borders of our country towards Albania and Macedonia. The international community must show good will and respect its acts. It must not be allowed to bring any new Security Council resolution, which would go below Resolution 1244 or transfer jurisdiction from the Security Council to the European Union or, God forbid, some new Dayton conference. More than autonomy represents, in our opinion, for Serbia less than Resolution 1244, and it does not need to be proved in particular. We should not voluntarily give up what has been guaranteed to us by the official highest body for the preservation of peace and security in the world, because the resolution speaks of autonomy, not more than autonomy. Kosovo and Metohija must not be, for God's sake, a promotional coin, for EU, NATO membership or favourable loans, as one part of the ruling structure, painted primarily in G17 plus, wishes or already publicly advocates such a thing. We know that Mr Dinkic has traveled to Germany 57 times in the past year alone, but he will have to tell us once why he traveled and what reason he was there. Kosovo and Metohija, you know, alone, cannot be taken from Serbia without Serbia's consent. The damage comes from some politicians – unfortunately, within our country they may be marginal, but they are currently in positions that give them international importance – let's say Svilanovic, who is now a member of the International Commission for the Balkans and who is trying to convince us that it is good to accept the independence of the province. The question arises who recommended and who chose and delegated Svilanovic to such a position. As far as I know, the National Assembly isn't, the DS isn't, the Council of Ministers I don't know, maybe it is, the government of Serbia, maybe it is, we don't know about it. How independent this commission is we know that, because we know that her work is financed from the American-German foundation. The question arises whether he can be a MP in that case at all. I just wanted to remind you of some international documents that you have like aces in your sleeve, if the international community cares about survival. If the UN wants to survive and does not want any negative solution for Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija as a domino effect to be extended to all those countries in Europe that can have a similar problem. It's up to you to take advantage of you or not, I suppose you have good advisers, you just have to be persistent and know what you want and do not willingly agree to what the Serbian people could not possibly forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24487	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Obradovic has seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24488	The Honorable Presidency, Prime Minister, members of the government, respected fellow MPs, I dare say that the essence of the international community's relationship with Serbia, at least that part of the international community that has committed aggression on our country in 1999, due to the alleged protection of human rights of Albanians, is essentially to provide Albanians with a new state in the Balkans, and that part of the international community that has ruled Kosovo and Metohija since mid-1999, the essence of this relationship is two issues, i.e. two objectives. First, who will put a signature on the Kosovo and Metohija independence document ahead of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija would not remain an infectious example for other minority ethnic communities around the world in the case of self-proclaimed independence or recognition by one part of the state. Secondly, who will represent Serbs in the so-called after 1999 in front of Serbs and Montenegrins who remain in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo institutions have also shown that standards on multiethnic Cosmet have been met, which would put anything else wrong with what was done in the second plan, and especially by the ethnic cleansing of Serbs, Montenegrins, around 250,000 of them, after July 1999. To achieve these goals, in Serbia, the representatives of the countries that bombed our country, as well as their domestic speakers, are constantly repeating an incorrectly important issue that Kosovo and Metohija's independence should be accepted as a consequence, as they like to say, of Milosevic's legacy. At the same time, throughout the period since 1999, so to this day, therefore, at the time of the ethnic cleansing of about 250,000 Serbs, no one on their side is talking about human rights anymore. It is not mentioned at all, nor are the rights of Serbs who have been ethnically cleansed from Cosmeta, nor are Albanians whose alleged protection has caused armed aggression on our country. And the propose of Milosevic's legacy, by the end of 1998, means several months before the start of the bombing, there was agreement in the UN Security Council, found in the relevant resolutions, that terrorist actions existed in Cosmet. There was agreement that the KLA was a terrorist organisation, and there was also agreement that there was an excessive use of force by the Serbian state to prevent terrorist activities. By the start of the bombing, as well as the 1950s, 1970s, the state invested in Kosovo and Metohija, invested in production, education, health care, culture, information, but then, as before, the Albanian community was all but little or nothing, because, as we heard today in the presentation of the Prime Minister, in 1968 and 1981 and some other years, but also in 1999 and 2006, they were only interested in one thing, which is independence. From Serbia, they took as much as they could, what they could, health care, travel documents and others, but also created parallel organs and institutions to create their own special state. Serbia has done what could be done. Could it have been more of a question that is always being asked and interpreted in different ways? Rambouje, as known, was just a way to find a formal reason for military intervention. I'll remind you of the words of Madlen Albright, then secretary of state, that Rambouje was a step Serbia cannot skip. I'm going to quote Kissinger, the former secretary of state, that the proposals presented in Rambuje did not leave any other exit to military intervention. So much for that Milosevic legacy. As for human rights, you remember everyone, since it wasn't long ago, that NATO intervened to prevent ethnic cleansing of Albanians. The public mentions the figures of 780,000 people, who had to leave their hearths because Serbian state forces were, like, conducting terror. The reality was very different. Today, in 2006, there is plenty of data to confirm that it was a fictitious, false thesis for Serbia to bomb. The point of the bombing was to transfer the government from Serbia to the majority Albanian population in Cosmet. I must, for the sake of the local public, quote three statements that the American administration then declared, in the image of three leading figures, what was the essence of the bombing. Clinton: Serbia will pay dearly; Madeleine Albright: Serbia will kneel on its knees and beg for mercy; Wesley Clarke: NATO will turn Serbia into dust and ash. That's what you need to know. The refugee column was there, but they were to a much greater extent the result of NATO bombing, rather than the causes that led to them. This is what I quoted Henry Kissinger's position as a former secretary of state. I must mention, since the arrival of NATO troops in 1999, when they took over practically all control of Kosovo and Metohija, that over 200,000 Serbs have been ethnically cleared, official EU data speak of 248,000, it seems to me, internally displaced, 244,000 and some internally displaced persons, this refers to these people. A subcommittee of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro has made one report, which speaks very plastically about what has been happening in Kosovo and Metohija, and I think it is worth mentioning only a few data, because they are essentially saying what has been happening in Kosovo and Metohija over the past six years. Unfortunately, a subject such as the number of killed, missing, kidnapped is a difficult topic for us, but I have to repeat several times to the public, because this is consciously ignored, that our official data (I expect this report from the National Assembly subcommittee to soon become a report from the National Assembly) that the number of people killed in Kosovo and Metohija from 1 January 1998 to 31 December 2005 is 5,942, of which 4.320 Albanians and 1,622 persons of Serbia, Montenegro and other nationalities. A total of 2,494 people, 1,774 Albanians, 760 Serbs, Montenegrins, etc., disappeared. I'm mentioning this to you because it's due today to say to Serbia, because it keeps sticking it on our noses that we were doing things that served back then as a cause of bombing. Of course, this report also contains a number of other data, such as data on Serb-Montenegron camps, such as data that UNMIK, KFOR and others did nothing and unfortunately a lot of bad things in Kosovo and Metohija. Why am I bringing this up? It's 2006 today. Are we declared by the so-called so-called. democratic countries with a democratic country? We did. So, regardless of what is on the two sides of the formulation of the democratic state and the democratic country, has this democratic Europe's relationship to us changed when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? It's not. Should we then give ourselves such qualifications or boast that we are democratic, and before that, in a time of no-democracy, that it was a different relationship? We must admit to ourselves and others that the international community's relationship has not changed. And that is why it is good that today we reach the necessary agreement in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this state issue, because the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not a party issue, but a state issue, and it is good that we have received this report, which is, in my opinion, very good, that is, for us Socialists, realistic and depicts the real situation and our position, but also the position of the other side. I'm saying this for a reason... (President: Mr. Obradovic, please finish, the time, seven minutes has passed, and it has already been nine minutes. Please, the secretary keeps records, be kind, finish up. Please, let me talk. (President: Mr. Radovic, you've got half a minute left and I'll have to turn off your microphone. Mr. Markovic, please behave yourself. (President: Mr. Obradovic, I completely understand, but you must understand that we must follow the rules, Mr. Secretary of the National Assembly warned me two minutes ago. That's why I'm asking you best to finish. We will have to tell ourselves where the limit of our indulgence is, or where there is no limit to which we will not cross. It seems to me that our negotiating team is well composed, that it has good negotiating positions, has repeatedly fulfilled its willingness to resolve in the interests of all, has repeatedly called for respect for territorial integrity, respect for international law, European and world experience. We should also invite the international community to respect both its words, and its views and its decisions that it used in the 1990s, when the legalisation of Yugoslavia is legalized. The solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues, a violent solution, can be imposed on us, but we must not accept it because of generations behind and because of generations to come, because the history of the Balkans has shown that no imposed solution has lasted long, because the force itself, when above the law, does not last long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24489	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and after MP Nemanja Sarovic, the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, because MP Milomir Minic does not have time for discussion. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several previous speakers have already said that they may have expected a different tone of this debate today, but I must say that it depends first on this report that we are talking about today and that we have received. I think the majority opinion is that we expected a much more concrete report, more concrete things, instead of the prime minister's advisors here asking us questions about standards, what about this, what about that; it's the wrong approach and still some questions that you should have asked Marty Ahtisaari, and Kai Eideu, and the Contact Group, and the Security Council and some definitely other addresses. The questions to which we are looking for answers are certainly – what you have done so far about Kosovo and Metohija, what you are doing and what you will do, because in this report, that the premature publication of parts of the platform concerning the province's future status would simply unnecessarily reveal the maps, presenting the details of the proposed solution, and not having any positive consequences, simply speaks of what your relationship with the National Assembly is. If there is any secret, then it could certainly not be a secret to the National Assembly and representatives elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If there was a need for something to remain a secret, then this session of parliament could have been closed, but it was necessary for you to share a concrete and plan of your operation and thus enable us to even discuss what you will do in the next period and share responsibility with all of us, and we have expressed our willingness to share that responsibility with you. When one of the representatives of the West, allegedly, of the Contact Group, such as this Sawyers, says that Kosovo will be independent, then mostly everyone in the state's organs is silent, it seems to no one else's ears, except for us Serbian radicals. However, when Tomislav Nikolic says that under no circumstances will we accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence, then you are simply racing who will cast a heavy fire against both the SRS and Tomislav Nikolic, because you say, my God, that is how the solution is prejudged. It is as if Sawyers, when he says Kosovo will be independent, does not prejudge the solution and as if representatives of Kosovo Albanians have for years not prejudged the solution when they say it is the only possible independent Kosovo. For a long time, we've had this doctrine of stick and carrots as something beautiful, as an expression of that Western democracy, but we need to know that this doctrine at one end of the stick means donkey. Of course, we don't feel that way, we don't see Serbian citizens either, but it should be noticed that carrots remain while you're required so-called. international communities are changing. Yesterday it was Milosevic, so they were generals, today it was Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. In itself, the conclusion is that we get a stick regularly, but that carrots always run away. What is it even today and in previous years of carrots, is it EU entry and do we have to give up Kosovo and Metohija in order to join the European Union? If we are all in a hurry and go to this European Union, why don't we go along with Kosovo, or why don't Kosovo enter the European Union within Serbia? Is that carrot entering NATO a pact, like a defense alliance? Of course, entering the NATO Pact would only make sense if he guaranteed us the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have no other interest in the NATO Pact. The question is, what would we defend in the first place, what would we defend ourselves from if, as a previous question and a prerequisite, we were given up from both sovereignty and parts of our territory. The question arises and what will we do in the UN unless they guarantee sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. I will remind you that the idea of leadership, when we, among others, founded the UN, was the creation of an organisation that would protect interests primarily of small states, which were outside of the bloc's division at the time. The UN's current organisation has turned into an anti-sub which we, too, wanted to create and represents, in fact, the service of large forces, through which those who are not powerful enough under some form and cover of the UN organisation impose certain solutions. I think you should have explained to us where your Western friends and patrons are now, where are those who brought you to power? You promised us that many issues would be resolved, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue. It's just, now we see it's not like that. Have you been chosen to, thanks to your allegedly good contacts with the West, help in achieving Serbia's interest or are you, in fact, chosen to make Western forces easier to achieve interests in Serbia? One more thing, I'd say, although it's not a question that needs to be ignored, and it's a problem of a termological nature, which we agreed to. There are talks everywhere about the Kosovo and Metohija status talks. I think that we should insist on what we have thanks to Resolution 1244, which, according to the SRS, is the final solution to the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and then we can continue to enter into negotiations on the aspects of autonomy, ways of achieving autonomy, decentralisation in Kosovo and Metohija and similar issues. However, despite everything you have heard, the SRS will vote in favour of this report, not because we are fully satisfied with it, but because, as a major political party, practically now Serbia's strongest party, we show our relationship towards Kosovo and Metohija, as well as our attitude towards the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24491	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has always treated the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in the Serbian Parliament, the state union, everywhere and in every place as a key state and national issue. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say that the President of the Republic, who came to the session, is something funny right now. Mr Tadic, I would point you to this not only not to laugh, but to apologize to the MPs of the SRS and a huge number of Serbian citizens because you are performing in your euphoric enthusiasm of self-loving on the General Committee of the DS, or whatever it is called, ignoring the fact that you should be state responsible, as President of the Republic, for not being taught by the SRS by your own behaviour, but obviously you cannot learn that. Now the prime minister himself is coming into one stalemate. He today said in his presentation that several years ago, Martti Ahtisaari voiced the view that Kosovo and Metohija would possibly be able to remain in the membership of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then SRJ, in case Serbia were a democratic country. Then today, the prime minister found -- well, yes, Serbia is a democratic country. Just a few days ago, you said in that statement, which came across the huge indignation of Serbian citizens, that Serbia is not a democratic country. If you deny the fact that today in Serbia is the most popular party, with the largest foothold in the electoral body, with the president of the party who has been in The Hague tribunal for three years, and does not begin his trial, which is more free than you, Mr Tadic, to say anything, and yet it is in the Hague dungeon, and when a clear man who is the only one is called, as the legitimate representative of the voters who trust him today in Serbia, because all the polls show that he is convinced in front of you, Mr Nikolic, unfortunately, the situation in which Serbia is today and what is the situation in which we find ourselves based on statements of officials such as Sawyers and others, such things must be called the right name, then you say that the Serbian Radical Party is guilty, and if something, God forbid, will come to harm, they will come to power and so do so. First of all, I have to point out that the correct conclusion is that in writing this report, in the first part, your advisor took part. It just shows that your advisors are "better," but as it turns out, that's how they are, from yourself. It's a very dangerous finding on page five of this report. I ask the MPs to pay attention to that, and above all, to Mr. Prime Minister. The point is that on the fifth page, which is the fifth, sixth and seventh lines, is the next explanation, that is, some projection of what might happen and how our negotiating team will take place. It says that "the policy of our team would be unilateral if it focused exclusively on defending the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, not offering any political compromise as a basis for achieving a mutually acceptable solution". You know what, if the Ship's delegation comes – and it's not, Mr Samardzic, as you said a few years ago, Vienna, the benevolent Rambuy, is not at all, be assured; the same requirements they have today, as they had in Rambuje; that's what you said in the context of those failed attempts in 2003, when Covic advocated something similar – if they come and come to you with such an idea, surrounded by the fact that they have open support of Sawyers, and it is absolutely clear that serious politicians, serious statesmen, which you are not, Mr Tadic, and what Vladimir Putin is, know that there are no lies and delusions. And he knows what his partners are like in the world today, what his competition is, and where he is now in that triangle between Serbia, so-called. The international communities and the Shiptar negotiating team are us, where the Russian Federation is in all of this. It's the only way to get you to know that you're a responsible state and you're taking this issue seriously. This session of the Assembly and this report is not an opportunity for us to create a retrospective of what happened, what is possibly going to happen, so hypothetically, without taking these things seriously into consideration. You see how Putin in the Kremlin, holding talks with his closest associates, above all the foreign minister, took the most seriously, and this is about Serbia, his friendly country and in the narrow context of the issue of Russia's position in this part of Europe, or the Balkans, its geostrategic goal, which is what we have been talking about for 15 years, taking into account such a hard-core attitude of the Cypriot delegation, which is primarily supported by such statements by officials of the US Congress, State Department, Sawyers and him and the creation of a similar atmosphere, which in the right sense of the words of the Serbs, is driving fear into the bones. If you are now interviewing any Serb in our southern province and asking him what it means for him to say Ahtisaari or Sawyers and whether anyone in there and living is thinking of staying in case, God forbid, independence happens, he will tell you that this is absolutely an excluded option. I must take the opportunity today to warn you not to fool yourself from day to day in Vienna, as Nebojsa Covic did in time. Remember, Mr Samardzic, who dealt extensively with the issue, signed in October or early November with UNMIK a document on the alleged improvement of the conditions and position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija as regards basic and elementary life issues, which are the right to live on his hearth, such as the issue of electricity, movement. What happened after that? In 2004, on the nights between 17 and 19 March, the President of the Republic government may have used the right word when he spoke to the pogrom, but everything that Serbian officials, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro later said, using the expression of terror from the Cypriot extremists and separatists, is not in the right sense of the word for the present and the future, but is in fact the only way to qualify it with the right expression – terrorism, in the worst possible form, the one who, apart from being colored with express national and religious hatred by the Cypriot separatists, co-ordinated by Western forces, US officials above all, and today spoke of Mr Vucic. This well-informed American from the University of New York that came to Belgrade didn't just talk about it, to the conclusion of one of the present that the SRS has an ever-increasing trust and that, indeed, so, thank God, things are moving in Serbia, in the future, that the government and the strongest party will respond – so what. She told you one more thing, as someone who deals with the Balkan issue and what the Cypriots have been preparing for many years, and in which Western forces and Americans have been helping them, she said something else, which is that US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her assistant Nicholas Burns openly advocated the full independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and they had a great deal of exposure to Boris Tadic a few days ago at the Security Council. Because, according to Susan Woodward, both Condoleezza Rice and Nicholas Burns have said that this is the only way to start a job in Kosovo and that this will happen with full independence of Kosovo and have added that they believe and that they only see that Kosovo can mark the end of Milosevic's rule. Do you have such signals that you are saying this and that you are mentioning the period of the former regime, and you represent Serbia today in the United Nations Security Council, the US Secretary of State or those who advocate Kosovo's independence, think about it yourself. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I warn you that an actual state, and God forbid that the actual state should be Kosovo's independence, can only be marked by the word he said after leaving the office of Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, which is an occupation. You don't have to do this with so much ignorance (not to you, of course, the most representatives of the government, but to these followers of yours and the various glasses that don't understand at all) that you point your finger at the SRS and Tomislav Nikolic, just because we've always been prepared, except that we're ready to protect the interests of the people and the state, to call things the right name, and that at the present moment, they're more determined and some vision of what's going to happen and how we need this negotiating team, and this is not seen from the report you've given us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24493	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24494	Mr. Chairman, of course we're different in many things and it won't change in Serbia soon, probably shouldn't. We also differ in experiencing serious and non-serious facts and personalities in politics, and that is quite acceptable to me. But I think it's very important to say about what is serious and what is not, which also has an objective confirmation in international relations, as they are. The country's international relations take place through meetings that top officials, of course, and the President of the Republic, have with foreign statesmen, and they certainly take seriously the people who represent this country. President Shirak, Prime Minister of Great Britain, however they have the opposite opinion of what we are told here is the country's position, but also the President of the Republic of China and the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin. They are seriously experiencing the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and I agree that you have the opposite position and the opposite attitude of all of them, that is your right, this is a democratic and free country. The officials of this country are struggling with all the forces to save what is to be saved from our national and national interests. The Democratic Party supports what appears to be Kosovo and Metohija and will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24495	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24496	I don't understand anything from the predication, does what he said about the Russian Federation mean Putin doesn't appreciate Kostunica? Of course, the president of the Russian Federation should see the president of Serbia. The only question is what he concludes after talks with the president of Serbia. Of course, both the Russians and the Chinese value many people in Serbia, not only President Tadic, so if you're going out to talk about who the Russians and the Chinese value, you mean Vojislav Kostunica. Since I'm an orphan and there's no one to mention me, let's say they appreciate me. I went to the receptions organized by the Russians and the Chinese when you weren't even allowed to come in there. Now, of course, I meet you too. I'm being escorted by the Chinese ambassador another 200 metres outside the reception hall. Appreciates that I was the only one from Serbia to come to the receptions organised by China so do not, through the role of the President of the Republic, love that the presidents of other countries cooperate with him, I would like to see something useful come out of this co-operation for Serbia, exclude other people who are working with our friends in the world, and I am thinking primarily of the government of Kostunica-Labus, because in the opinion of one of my very colleagues, there is no Velja Ilica, there is no Vuk Draskovic, there is no one else. There is no reason for you to defend Boris Tadic from MPs in this assembly. We have the right to say that he does his duty, you have the right to say that he does his duty, but don't involve our friends in that, and don't argue with us in front of our friends. At this point, you admit that the Chinese are our friends, that the Russians are our friends, where we're lucky some other countries have a veto on the Security Council, and you'd call them our friends. So, right now, let's not touch our friends, let's fight between ourselves, let's not touch our friends, let's not do them, because we'd have a long time to argue over who they most appreciate here. One thing I know, I know who they don't appreciate most, and don't you dare prove that he's the most appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24497	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24498	Ladies and gentlemen, a report by the negotiating team has been a description of events over the past few months that are more or less known to all those who care, who are interested in the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. The Arab Resolution, adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 21 November 2005, has the obligation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating team regularly submit reports on all developments in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija and with such practice should continue. Why are such sessions of the National Assembly needed? It is precisely because we would be familiar with during the negotiations, and also to repeat the views of all political parties what and how they expect the Kosovo and Metohija problem to be solved. What is it that Serbs expect from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating team? It is the attitude and respect of all resolutions, beginning with UN Resolution 1244, to the resolutions reached in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and strictly respect for these resolutions, which means we can negotiate, negotiations on everything, just not on independent Kosovo and Metohija. Why do I mention this? Just because we had previously, when we adopted resolutions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we were unanimous, and already the next day we stepped down and went our separate ways, which is exactly what should not and should not happen to us in the future. It was a dilemma to go to the election. The Parliament's decision is no, so let's change our minds and go to the polls. It was a dilemma, whether to enter temporary institutions, the Parliament's decision -- no, and then we enter those temporary institutions. Can we trust those who have cheated on us more than once, who have deceived not only Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but also themselves, because one day they were for the boycott of the election and the other for the election. Why am I saying this? It is because, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, there must be no change of opinion and views, there must be no politics. Whether we are for Kosovo and Metohija or not, there can be no room for calculations, for changing attitudes and opinions. We must be clear and loud and say what we think and what we want, which is, I think, in the vast majority of this House, that Kosovo and Metohija must remain in the membership of the Serbian state. The statements of some foreign diplomats on Kosovo's final status and Metohija, such as Vizner, Sawyers, cannot and must not affect the government of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating team, as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are convinced that they are just mercenaries, paid diplomats, who voice the wishes of Cypriot separatists and terrorists. What should concern them is Ahtisaari, who is trying to intimidate Serbs and Serbia and convince them of some futility of the negotiations, as Ahtisaari and Metohija reportedly will eventually be independent. We must respond to paid diplomats' statements, and Ahtisaari's statements should be answered vigorously, his exposure must be condemned, we must oppose them, so that they cannot and must not act accordingly. I'll tell you one last year when I had a meeting with gentlemen from this supposed Europe and the world. They were Mrs. Carl Bilt, some representatives of France, Belgium and Canada, on several occasions tried to ask me what I think of the solution - independent Kosovo? I told them not to talk about it. The word independence does not exist in any document, nor in the Charter of the United Nations, nor in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, nor in the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, nor in the Constitution of Serbia, and that these are only the wishes of Cypriot terrorists and separatists, and that we do not need to talk about it. It's normal, they stopped, and the next day I read a press conference for Karl Bilt, he didn't say a word about independent Kosovo. So it has to stand up to this idea that, normally, you know who lobbies and who propagates in Europe and the world. So what are the messages sent by Wisner, Sawyers, Ahtisaari, the International Crisis Group and similar? It is that they do not have a solution to the Kosovo-Methohic problem, to get more and more involved in the Kosovo-Methohic mud, to get out of the mud now they need co-workers both with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and with Serbs in the government of the Republic of Serbia. They need those who will vote the resolution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and tomorrow they will step down and serve all those who are for the destruction and humiliation of Serbia and the Serb people. I fear that there are politicians today, both in Kosovo and Metohija, and here in Belgrade, who will crush all resolutions, all agreements, calls for some unity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and co-operate with those who want Kosovo and Metohija independence. It is these constant messages of some independence of Kosovo and Metohija that need to tell us that the international community is not yet ready to step down Resolution 1244, to trample international law, to make a precedent and declare Kosovo's independence and Metohija. It is not all this that there is no saying that Kosovo and Metohija will never be independent unless there is some crazy political head who, for the sake of government and hands of dollars, will sell Serbs and Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, on the grounds that this is real, because Kosovo and Metohija are long lost, that Serbia is going to Europe etc. Can we trust people, former ministers in the government of Kosovo and Metohija, can we trust those who served and served the Cypriot-Separatist goals of separatists and terrorists? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must not let ourselves think about creating an independent Kosovo and a Metohija. Should we teach our children, our grandchildren that the first Serbian state was created on the territory of another country, that the Germans were creating Serbia somewhere outside Serbia, that Saint Sava and Pećko Patriarchia worked and worked in another country? No, it was, it was, and it has to stay Serbia. It has been four months since the decision to join the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. It will take many months, perhaps many years to solve the problem, but we should bear in mind that around 130,000 Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija, live in very difficult conditions and depend on the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that help enough? It's not. Do they get paid on a regular basis? They don't pay off. Are children's allowances paid regularly? They don't pay off. Is the government pushing and making every effort to improve the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? No, I don't. That has to change. It must seem much more for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We must not allow Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to get solutions that they are technologically surpluses, to get fired, to leave themselves alone, to be without electricity and water for days and months. Currently, the government cannot provide security and security, but it can and must do much more for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to have minimum living conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24499	The word of the Messenger of the people is Stevica the Dejanite; let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, as a party currently representing at least half of Serbia, has the obligation and duty to monitor the developments surrounding the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Let us also point out whether someone is playing with the fate of Serbia, the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, and we think that the Assembly is the place where MPs should be told, as well as the people in direct TV transmissions of what will be done and under which they will not go and what will be done if that line is crossed. There are people who speak, speak, and speak, until they finally do something and say it. You're still here, unfortunately, after a full day's debate, you haven't said anything yet. The SRS, and thus Serbia's majority interest in several things. First of all, do you represent what the Assembly ordered you a few months ago. Because the question is, if you don't represent, then whose policy you represent, because if you're not bound by the Parliament's opinion, then the question is, whose opinion is that. Whose opinion you're interested in. If, God forbid, your friends so-called decide to give the Albanians independence, what will you do? So the whole question today is what are we going to do in the worst possible situation if that happens. These are issues that are of interest to Serbia, because we have a situation now that various officials are making different statements and attitudes that we can say are not based on what the Assembly has adopted in time. We also have a situation for Serbian President Boris Tadic to negotiate with Hashim Thaci. They may be the same ideologically, but the whole of Serbia knows Thaci is a criminal. Therefore, he knew Serbia's president too, so the question is, what will he do with him in the first place? From your answer, we will also know what to expect in Vojvodina, i.e. In Banata, where I come from. None of the current officials have, unfortunately, reacted to the shameful misrepresentation by Romania's president of the persecution of minorities. Why? We've given the most to minorities in the whole world. Is it that you have not responded to the signal that you will not respond to the question of Kosovo and Metohija or in the next period, if the issue of Vojvodina is raised. We hope not, but tell it in public, loud and clear, what you'll do if it goes bad, clear and loud, without excessive twisting and empty talk, now tell here. That's what Serbia wants to know and to know who's going to help you, whether your so-called "democratic friends" we heard from Mr Tomislav Nikolic that no one has publicly fenced that Kosovo will not be independent, or Russia? Who are you relying on? Finally, I will say just one last sentence, which Nikola Pasic said, speaking in the Assembly, quote: "Serbia is a small and poor state compared to other world powers (in this case America or Britain), but it is honorable and fair and has all democratic rights, as well as any other free and independent country in the world."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24501	The word is made by Vice President Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, and then by Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24502	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President of the Coordination Centre, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like as Deputy Prime Minister and as President of the G17 Plus to support the negotiating team and the negotiating platform. Even though we may not seem unique right now, I think we are. Today we discussed two different topics: one is Kosovo's future status, the other are negotiations in Vienna. In Vienna, municipalities are being negotiated, no independence has been negotiated at all. If we leave that status issue to some future debate, I think we all agreed on what our negotiating team represented in Vienna, and as far as the formation of municipalities is concerned. I want to remind you once again what it is that is in our negotiating position. In fact, what happened in Vienna is that one and the other negotiating teams put out their negotiating positions. We set our position, they laid out their position. The two negotiating positions differ, vary completely from the point of view of the municipality's jurisdiction. We believe that in Kosovo municipalities must have more jurisdiction than under normal circumstances the municipalities have, especially in the area of so-called. social work. Schools and hospitals, and social assistance, which, under normal circumstances, is not at the level of municipalities, should be here in Kosovo, because it depends on the status of our people. That's what they say we're for decentralisation. On the other hand, the Kosovo side is for centralisation, for all these functions to go to the level of institutions in Pristina and that is a big difference. Another big difference is how to form municipalities. We believe that municipalities must be formed according to the national key, which does not mean that every municipality must be Serbian, but there must be a sufficient number of Serbs and other members of the national communities in the new municipalities to have equal status. On the other hand, Kosovo's position is not like that. They say all citizens are the same. Therefore, municipalities should be formed by this principle. Furthermore, what's new in our position, it's that we're asking that such formed municipalities can be horizontally connected. We didn't use the entity's expression, because the entity's expression annoys many in the international community. Basically, it is that Serbian municipalities where there are sufficient numbers of our living can connect with each other. Albania's negotiating position is completely against it. The next thing you know is social benefits, pensions, education, hospitals. It is whether or not there are special links between these institutions and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. We believe there should be special connections and that it is a guarantee that these services are normally financed. On the other hand, they claim that all of this must be centralized and there must be no special connection. It's a big difference between our position and their negotiating position. One more thing, our negotiating position also requires the police and the judiciary to be a significant part at the municipal level. And that's the decentralisation we're asking for these first municipal courts and judges to be elected by the municipal authorities. On the other hand, the police must be significantly ethnically composed, because there must be this ethnic key. The Kosovo-Albanian side thinks both functions must be centralised. Finally, we believe that municipalities should be formed immediately by the end of 2006. According to their proposal, the municipality would be formed at the earliest in 2009. They are asking by the end of this year for independence and for the next year's census to be carried out, in 2008 to form some of these municipalities and in 2009 to talk about a new status of decentralisation. This is unacceptable for us, because by 2009, Serbs will not be in Kosovo and Metohija if this is the way it works. They say it lasted five years in Macedonia, but there is a huge difference. The Albanian side in Macedonia is homogeneous, spatially homogeneous, 25% live in Macedonia, the Serbian side is not homogeneous, except in the north, and that is a huge difference. What happens on March 17th? These talks will continue on three topics that are also related to these issues. The first topic is how to finance municipalities, the second topic is whether there can really be this horizontal link between municipalities. The third topic - special ties with the government of the Republic of Serbia. We can assume that their answer will be negative. What about after March 17th? By 17 March, both sides define their negotiating position. Then it is a great responsibility for the international community to continue to manage these negotiations. Whether negotiations will go into crisis or continue in a certain way. What my proposal is, no matter what happens, all negotiations occasionally fall into crisis. Our side must not give up negotiations. It should repeat its views over and over again, but it should not give up negotiations, lest we be accused of being the ones who sabotage the entire negotiation process. This is the first stage of the negotiations. She refers to the municipalities. Then other matters will be negotiated, and then one day the status issue will come. We said what was unacceptable to us. During the negotiations, we will say what this full autonomy means and what is acceptable to us. Exactly in all functions, to know what our proposal is. I suggest that the National Assembly support what has been done so far and continue to support the negotiating team, because I think our negotiating team is on track. I believe, if something can be achieved, it can be done within these negotiating directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24503	The word of the Prophet is "Radet." "Let Pai Mamchilov prepare himself."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24504	Ladies and gentlemen, I was going as well as my colleagues, Serbian radicals, to take such a critical look at the political team's report. Now I'm in a dilemma, I don't know what these Belgrade authorities are going to do if we continue in the same style, since here, believe it or not, after today's discussions with Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, we got a party call for the party's headquarters. It says, you don't see, of course, 27, which is today, it's written and today it's arrived at the party, because they say they're calling us to make a statement about pasting some advertising posters. We really don't know what this is about. However, we saw in Belgrade and all over Serbia that everything is blue with the figure of Vojislav Seselj. We were wondering who was glued to it. We're still in the middle of a dilemma whether it's DS or DSS. Given this call, it's obvious that the yellow ones were doing it. This is the sequel, this fiction is the continuation of what we saw after the magnificent rally of the SRS, when she found Soroshe's B92 television a man she falsely introduced, or forced him or persuaded him to present himself as the chairman of the SRS Meat Committee from Starchev, which is not true. That man is not a member of the SRS at all. We'll see if it's going to be released tomorrow. I'm still going to take my chances and continue the way my fellow radicals talked about this negotiating team report. I will say that this time, as on April 29th, when we talked about problems in Kosovo and Metohija, I was surprised by the DS's position on April 29th last year because the president of the parliamentary group said that Kosovo and Metohija are not the most important issue in Serbia. Today, I am surprised that Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, a man who falsely presents himself as the president of all Serbian citizens, did not find it appropriate to address the MPs. He probably thinks he'll do it as a last resort, to show that he's the cover of every pot. I'm afraid not, Mr. Tadic. Today, by representatives of the ruling parties in Serbia, we heard three times this report, which we received about two hours before this session began. I guess they thought we didn't have time to read this, and here we are. So first the Prime Minister convinced us what we got on this paper, and then Mr Samardzic and Cohen. So we haven't heard or heard anything new except what's written here, and what's written is too general, and we don't see anything concrete, or what this team has been negotiating specifically, or what it intends to do. We heard from the Prime Minister that we must not allow a new state to form within the borders of our country. That's what you said, and that's, of course, okay, but you've remained obliged to explain to us what's going to happen if, God forbid, the imposed solution is just like that. Will you comply with the Constitution, pursuant to Article 51. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, seek on behalf of the government to declare the occupation of the part of Serbia's territory. Neither you, Prime Minister nor the representatives of this team who spoke here, have come to the attention of certain officials who came to Serbia, Sawyers, who said Kosovo would be independent, so Martti Ahtisaari, who said that the population in Kosovo and Metohija would decide on the status of Kosovo and Metohija. And he says 90% of the Albanian population is there, so you see what the decision will be. Then the president of the DSS parliamentary group gives a statement to today's "Political", which is being published under the title - Radicals are unable to exercise power, and among other things Mr Aligrudic tells the SRS that we are for European integration, but that European integration is not a priority for us. Mr. Aligrudic, both ladies and gentlemen, it is true from Kosovo and Metohija that they are not our priority. Our priority is the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and we also tell you all, and those with whom you negotiate and talk, that there will be no talk of any integration and of Serbia's entry into the EU if they impose an unfavourable solution on us for Kosovo and Metohija. What it means is that we accept that they're robbing us, stealing our territory and then waving at us some Euro-Atlantic integrations and we say, that's the most important thing, we're going to Europe, even if today, without Kosovo and Metohija, tomorrow without Vojvodina, the day after tomorrow without Raska. Now, that's not the SRS' position, and if you object to us, then we don't hide that we really think that and we say that every day to the citizens of Serbia and, thank God, the citizens of Serbia understand us, and we certainly do, as people who are seriously involved in politics, the most important thing. Of course, regardless of all these remarks that we have talked about today, we will vote in favour of this report because it cannot adversely affect the status of Kosovo and Metohija in any way, but the fact is, I repeat, that essentially does not mean anything. Unfortunately, these are just empty words, without any concrete attitude, without any concrete move the government of the Republic of Serbia would make, given the obligation given to it on 29 November at the National Assembly session. But, for example, we have, among other things, on this page 13 you say that with the outcome of these talks, you're talking about talks with Ambassador Kai Eide, we can be quite pleased, since the special rapporteur in his report on meeting the standards has included most of our demands on decentralisation. And you're going after pots here too, and Mr. Labus has just tried to turn the story to another side, but, Mr. Labus, the issue of decentralisation and the question of status are separate questions. We are at this moment, and I assume to you, the most important status in terms of respect for Resolution 1244 and in terms of the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else, as far as the SRS is concerned, is absolutely unacceptable, and I hope that applies to all of you who represent the ruling coalition. Here Mr Simic said that the unique impression of this delegation is positive, but you really did not say what is so positive, Mr Simic, or you have something you do not want to share with the MPs. What we've seen and heard, that I don't repeat who knows which time, is really not something too negative, but I don't see anything positive. And we expect the negotiating team to take its work seriously, to open up to your speakers what is underneath which the Republic of Serbia and our negotiating team will not and must not, after all, go and be ashamed if Albanians say they recognise nothing but an independent Kosovo. I don't see why any of you from these front lines are ashamed to say: Serbia can recognise anything, but not independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24505	The word is Paja Momchilov. Let Zoran Krasic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today in the fair atmosphere discussing a fateful problem of our country, and, for God's sake, if the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and other non-Albanian peoples and national minorities are taken into account, it is certainly also a fatal question for those communities. For me, political correctness and courtesy would require that I also welcome the president, the prime minister of our cabinet and members of the government, however, it is a sad fact that here, apart from the honorable exceptions, all of our ministers are not interested in this problem of Kosovo. There is no minister of religion here, and we know that Metohija was named after the deed in Metohija has the Serbian Orthodox Church. There are over a thousand temples of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo, and the minister of religion is not here with us to listen together to what the representatives of the people have to say. Well, good. What is today for every citizen of Serbia, about that can already be heard in the talks, clearly, representatives of the international community have begun a direct action of Kosovo's secession from Serbia. There's no dilemma. We can talk and, for tactical reasons, distract others if that's not the case, that's what started. In what conditions does this happen? Most Serbs and non-Albanian living have fled Kosovo, so we have ethnic cleansing of Serbs and non-Albanian living. Furthermore, the other Serbs live in ghetto conditions, they do not have basic human rights and freedoms, they do not have freedom of movement, not to talk about all other freedoms, and that is clear to all. And, thirdly, quite clearly, all this is happening in the presence of the international community, your democratic Europe and the NATO military force pact. It's an indisputable fact, and I think we all agree here. We have an ethnic cleansing that continues, on March 17th was a year ago, we were all witnessing these ruthless events, and I don't know how to define these events, but by continuing ethnic cleansing. And now, what we have as a phenomenon, the negotiations have begun, the conversation of the deaf began, it's quite clear. What's interesting is that it's all happening under the care of Mr. Ahtisaari, who's been pounding his hand on the table here in Belgrade, we know when and how, who needs to discipline the insubordinate and immature participants in the conversation, who can't bring themselves to their senses, to normally talk humanly. The restrictions have been established, 20 minutes can be made, so if we see that it doesn't suit us as the negotiations are under way, we will suspend it, we will conduct shuttle talks and diplomacy, if necessary. So it's all true. Most interestingly, a direct announcement of the loss of Kosovo and Metohija began, more than international prominent representatives, and I still don't think it is controversial. It has been said that it is a punishment for Milosevic's misbehaving, that it is a problem of human rights, democratic rights. Self-determination now needs a majority living to happen, of course not in Republika Srpska. There's a genocide, which of course needs to be proven in some courts, right? But what may only bother there is that certain citizens of Serbia also represent this view. I don't want to use hard words, there's no need to use them right now. Another interesting fact is that we are a serious people and that we are a serious assembly, today when we are discussing the fate of the state and the nation and the people like this, then we should be representatives of the SANU, the Serbian Orthodox Church and other religious communities here. They should be here. Why? These are two pillars of Serbian spirituality, two cariatides of our country's state and social being. If we were an orderly country, there should also be a President of the Constitutional Court here, reminding us and the representatives of the executive government what the Constitution says and what their competences are, to which they have committed and by law. But now that it is not there, so that we do not have a shallow political thought, aggressively and without sight and shame, the story of Milosevic losing Kosovo does not lose individuals to the state. It's clear to everyone. If there were historians here who knew anything about history, it would be a different situation. But since it's already the way it is, I'll be free to now, of course I'm not pretentious to be able to represent SANA and SPC, with a few quotes, which will not enter at the time of my discussion, I say what SANU and SPC say about this. The first quote: "The Serbian people in their history have endured too many heavy blows to be left without consequences for the spiritual situation in his community. Citing the main route of all conquering breakthroughs in Southeast Europe, not only Turkish, the people are condemned to permanent collapse and drowsiness or at least to the appearance of national defetism. Rare are peoples in Europe who are both mentally and linguistically as even as Serbian, but are rare those in which more internal differences have been made and who have been condemned to so much separation. Since the second half of the 19th century, when Southeast Europe became a sphere of influence by the great forces, which condemned it to semi-colonial subordination, the Serbian people opposed it by stressing the national principle. He was condemned by all, both allies and enemies, to a slaved living space and to a awake patronage," says late academics Samardzic. I will not quote the source, I believe that many, at least members of our negotiating team, have read it and are well aware of it. It's part of all this and it's like a papal whore. Our officials love to go to Pontifex, shake hands and conduct negotiations, but it is known that Pope Pius IX, at the Parliament held in the Vatican in 1870, acted as an infallibility to all popes. Ten years before that, he said, "Whoever's with me is with the church, and who's not with me, he's out of the way, out of the truth, out of life." We had that "out of the way" and "out of life" in the Independent State of Croatia, and we have it in Kosovo today, except no one will say it. When on TV was a part of March 17th last year mentioned, which depicted what happened at that time? Who won't? Why doesn't TVB92 show those inserts again and repeatedly repeat some where Serbs are notoriously guilty? I quote two more questions, and I will finish, two opinions by Samardzic. When it comes to Kosovo's surrender, how much is it as a tradition basically mythical and how historic. The West tells us -- stay out of history, look into the future. We know that history is a teacher of life, that's how they teach us at school. However, new schools may now be in action. Well, we also know that history is the lobby of the present. Academic says this: "Kosovo's dedication is essentially historic, because it has its place in one historic event and was created in the course of the internal history of a nation. It has strayed from history by gradually becoming the contents of a nation’s general spirituality and deep self - consciousness, and this has finally adapted. It is much harder to agree to use the term "Kosovo myth". The Kosovo definition of the Serbian people stems from a major event, from the historic fate of Serbs, from its sacred Orthodoxism and very strong and high ethical principles. Marking this whole complex with the phenomenon "mit" leads to the poverty of an exceptional historical phenomenon, the complex essence of one national character and movement, in fact, towards their non-existent, non-history and pagan core." In the end, since the church here was represented by representatives of both G17 plus and DSS, here's to give a quote to Father Justin. "In church, the past is always modern. The present in the church is the present always alive past is the god of Christ, who yesterday is the same and always, constantly in his divine body living the same truth, the same light, the same good, the same life, and all the past always makes the present. Hence are the living Orthodox memories and knowledge of all the members of the church, beginning with the holy apostles, until yesterday the deceased, always modern, because they always live in Christ. Today, all the holy apostles and martyrs and holy eyes are modern to every true Orthodox man. Moreover, those who are more realistic for him than many of his contemporaries per body... "These are all quotes. I know exactly when I stopped. I'll be done now. We have what she gave as government material. There are two questions they've tried to answer. We, representatives of the SRS, are just saying - go clear to the Assembly and the people for what you stand for, what is our definitive platform. We tell you, say it openly, if the solution is imposed and otherwise, which you're always saying, call it the right name, and that's the only name - occupation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24507	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24508	What we are considering today should be a report on the work of those we have authorized to represent and represent us in talks, not negotiations. Here the word negotiation is used by mistake. There's nothing to negotiate, there's nothing to talk about. You can chat with your conversants across the street or on the other side. I will then go to the organic disadvantages of this report, where you admit that you did not represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia in line with the resolutions adopted in the National Assembly in 2004 and 2005. I've only stuck to those two resolutions, although I can tell you that you've represented both the opposite and some resolutions that have been made in previous years, both in 2001 and 2003, even in the form of a declaration. Let me start with something that's the essential question of this report. I really can't tell from this report what the government's main starting point is in the talks. Because I get the impression that at the moment the truth, law, justice, international law is being used as the main argument, and at one point something called a new reality has been inserted out of pure peace since 2001. The first criterion is well known, but this second criterion - a new reality, I will describe it in one way that some of them used here in 2001, when they said that Serbia acted as someone who entered a pub where there are 18 robbers and, of course, it was killed, because the bar has principles: who is stronger, who is better, who is more resourceful. At the beginning, I want to tell you that I don't accept that other principle. I appeal and call on those who go to those conversations to ignore that principle. Then we go to what really is the essence of all this that we're doing with Resolution 1244. The final status is defined by that resolution. The resolution came under the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin peace plan, which stopped the armed conflict between the NATO Pact, as an aggressor, and the SRJ, which was the victim. This resolution has been passed under certain conditions. Had it not been for the guarantee of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, it would have probably not have adopted a peace plan, which would not have led to a resolution like this, which we had the opportunity to hear from some international crisis group representative, who said in one liquid Serbian language: "Milosevic had deceived Ahtisaari in the 1990s, because our plan was to kidnap the territory of Kosovo and Metohija through aggression. "Please, you have had the opportunity to see this man in a direct transmission on one show, where he coquetted with one of the former presidents of this Coordination Centre, who had been drinking tea, coffee and negotiated very often, not only for the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but also for those three municipalities that we say are located in southern Serbia. So, what do we need to talk about now and who we need to talk to? Probably our main conversation should be the United Nations. Why? Because the Security Council Resolution 1244, unfortunately, is our strongest argument, and you need to stick blindly to it, as well as to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of how it was brought, but it promotes a civil society, with guarantees of human rights, freedom and democracy, and I really cannot understand those who say that democracy lit up the moment they came to the elections, and they forget that in one democratic process in the elections they were representatives of that people in the National Assembly, in the Federal Assembly, so that we don't go beyond 1990, through all those serial elections, they were always premature, thus confirming the state, democracy and national sovereignty by definition. In that sense, I would draw attention to an organic deficiency that was made on 24 October 2005. At the UN Security Council meeting then, the one representing the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was not the foreign minister, which I believe is a great success, because I absolutely have no confidence in it, in the framework of Serbia-Montenegro's second strategic request: negotiations on the future status of the province must respect the fact that Serbia-Montenegro today is a democratic state. Please, Serbia-Montenegro is not in the legal sense of states, it is a union, a state union or what is referred to as "Solania" in the people. With its formation in 2003, she inherited all those indiscretions or that obstruction that came from Milo Djukanovic, which will eventually go to independent Montenegro, only not to go to jail for cigarette smuggling. I don't know who came up with the idea that Serbia-Montenegro represents a state when it's not. She is one union, one alliance, very informal, very loose as you can see. There is a difference in customs, monetary, tax and all other systems, and they represent the characteristic of one state. Furthermore, which I would draw attention to, since we are talking about the report, about something that has already been done, what has been done in my opinion is bad. This is the next point, the third, at the same Security Council session in October 2005, where Serbia-Montenegro is said to be ready for a political compromise, which would fully respect the legitimate interests of the Albanian population. I must draw your attention to anyone who is in power in the Republic of Serbia, he is bound by the Constitution to apply non-discriminatoryly the provisions of the Constitution on human rights and democracy and the population should not be shared. Why am I telling you this? For one simple reason why it, in your opinion, has been to negotiate 16 times with representatives of Shipara, Albanians, how anyone wants to take into account that, among other things, one educational agreement has been reached, through a specialized Vatican organisation, which has been interested in this space since 1913, when it forcefully formed Albania so that Serbia does not go out to sea. So, on this side, there was an initiative and a desire to solve everything in accordance with the Constitution, and even as far as the province's status is concerned. That's where I go back to the second question that the Deputy Prime Minister has completely unnecessarily spoken of here. Why unnecessarily? On the occasion of the meeting, it lasted two days, some other representatives said -- yes, we are for human rights towards Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, but that it has been applied since Kosovo gained independence. We don't want that. We need to prove that we are human rights fighters and democracy. Then the central problem that arises here is that you have now inserted into the concept of decentralisation. I agree with that notion, but it has its own rope and wider interpretation. I would interpret it in this situation as a rope. Decentralisation in terms of some government of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija in relation to the republican authorities, and unfortunately you have understood decentralisation in one too broad sense, in terms of the rights of Serbs in relation to the authority present in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which obviously intends to be cemented and permanent. There's a central error. The Autonomous Region cannot have its president, cannot have legislative authority. I must draw attention to you that already in Vojvodina, some measurers are asking that the precedents applicable to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in this assembly be valid in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I also want to inform you, and I think you know or rather remind you, that already in Romania the two parties say that this precedent, which prepares for the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, should be a standard, rule, a Pelcer for other areas where, in their opinion, there is also a problem allegedly human rights and democracy, etc. In the end, just one more sentence, all that I've given you, what you've confirmed you've done, is contrary to the 2004 and 2005 resolutions. One thing, please get it out of the report. Somebody tell me what this means. That's page 5, second paragraph that says, our team's policy would be unilateral if it focused exclusively on defending the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. You took an oath to do it. That doesn't even raise the Security Council resolution. Why are you making a reservation about it, that it's unilateral. Of course, our side is one-sided with its will. Our will is contained in the Constitution, our will is contained in Resolution 1244. But what is dangerous, as follows, says - not offering any political compromise as a basis for achieving a mutually acceptable solution. There is no mutually acceptable solution. The solution offered by this party, which is currently in power, this temporary in Kosovo and Metohija, you know for yourself, you have assessed it in previous resolutions as secessionist and terrorist, it comes from a position: independence or nothing. The international community should ensure that its resolution is implemented, but in a way much better than how they have implemented their obligations on the territory of Republika Srpska, on the territory of Republika Srpska and so far on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In this respect, you have consent, but you do not have the consent to mess up in such an eclectic way and to make something that is contrary to the resolutions of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24509	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Do they want the word of the President of the State and the Prime Minister? The first president of the state came forward, Boris Tadic, then the final word of the Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24510	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the topic of this session is Kosovo and Metohija, the process of negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, the work of the negotiating team, the state policy concerning Kosovo and Metohija, as one of the key problems of the state of Serbia, but not only the states of Serbia, but also one of the key destabilising factors of the entire Balkans today. I would therefore like to say that the responsibility of all of us and those who today negotiate on behalf of all citizens and states on the future status of Kosovo, those who perform their institutional functions, from MPs, members of the Government, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly, is extremely large. Personally, I'm not running away from that responsibility, nor am I going to run away one moment. I want to simply remind myself of a few facts, which I think are very well known to our public and our MPs. I will agree with the assessment, today, that Kosovo and Metohija did not create a problem in 2006, that Kosovo and Metohija were not much less of a problem in the 99th year or 81st year, when from Kosovo and Metohija in the Pioneer Park here, in front of the Serbian Parliament, our countrymen were also there. Nor in 1968, when a debate was opened at the CK, which you remember very well, which had far-reaching political consequences for the stability of our country at that time. Not in 1945, not before World War II. Kosovo and Metohija have been a problem that has been going through the past century. There are cross-interests in Kosovo and Metohija, conflicting interests exist. In Kosovo and Metohija, everyone has the right to defend their legitimate interests. The state of Serbia has the right to defend its legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. The state of Serbia, which is a democracy, one of international democracies, which is very important to know because of our international credibility, as well as all other states have the right to defend their legitimate democratic and national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of extreme seriousness, this is a question beyond any day-to-day political competition, and anyone who has tried to strengthen his internal political position has not been well spent. There have been many such examples in the past. What is doubtless a fact, that as a state and as a people, with one greater concentration, a better plan, more hope and thoughtfulness, we have defended our interests in all the years of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, today would be easier for us. The generations of politicians before us, before these contemporaries who are in the Serbian Parliament today, might not have left that difficult problem with us. Today, we have a responsibility to solve this problem because of those who will come behind us and we need to show the utmost seriousness. Today, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, it is not just us who decide and it is a common fact. Today, when Kosovo and Metohija decide on international institutions, the special envoy also decides on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Ahtisaari and his team, decides on a Contact Group made up of most of the countries that are today running the policy of this European space, plus Russia, plus the United States, and today on the future of Kosovo and Metohija also decides on the UN Security Council. These are the addresses at which we should defend our legitimate national, democratic and state interests. These are addresses that we have to keep talking to, and whenever one day we miss out on those addresses, you should know that someone else was there. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia has not invested a single penny in these countries to defend its legitimate views since 1990s, simply to clarify something. If it were, today our position, our political contemporaries in 2006, would be wherever and where easier, because the other side, the Albanian side, invested between $10 million and $15 million a year in these activities. All the countries of the world today defend their state interests by the means allowed in this world and lobbying in international institutions is allowed. Every institution in this country and MP is an institution, and the government is an institution, and the political parties are an institution, and the President of the Republic must make every effort to defend our interests in these institutions. They repeat once again what every citizen of this country and every MP in this room knows. The future of Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, is not just for us to decide. The future of Kosovo and Metohija is also decided by the legitimate international institutions that we are part of. We are, therefore, a member of the UN. How do I think we defend our legitimate interests? At any moment of the negotiation process. Today in this room, I did not want to speak in the first part, because I stand behind every word of those who have exposed our negotiating position, and Prime Minister Kostunica, and Mr Koin, and Mr Samardzic, because we are, once again, reminded of the constitutional obligation, and that is our political will, to negotiate our unity with the state policy on Kosovo. We humans are not the same, and thank God we're not, because then we'd be biological clones. We have different attitudes, but unity is not something that implies that we all have the same attitudes. Unity implies that we agree on attitudes, agree on attitudes, think about them and target our political resources, the instruments of defence of our interests where necessary. This is what we do on the negotiating team and that is why my word is behind the presentation of the negotiating position previously mentioned by citizens' envoys. I also fully support what Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, said about the current political and negotiating position. What does this negotiation process mean? This negotiation procedure involves, ladies and gentlemen, the concentration of the decentralisation process. This negotiation process today involves the first stage, a concentration on the decentralisation process. Decentralisation in the area of negotiations concerning people living in Kosovo and Metohija. decentralisation is not just about our countrymen in Kosovo, decentralisation is a fundamental process where the status and position of the SPC and our cultural heritage are ensured. The first part of this negotiation process went well. These negotiations are more than difficult, that's my assessment, but the first part went well, given all the circumstances in which we are and I will agree with that assessment, and that expert part of the negotiating team I support, so what was done in Vienna in the previous days. On the 17th of next month, the process continues and it will concern the financing of municipalities, will be aimed at connecting municipalities, and our intention is to form as many municipalities as possible with the Serb majority. There will be a third topic of the process, which is the establishment of direct institutional links between municipalities and the Serb majority in Kosovo, with Belgrade, with the Serbian government in Belgrade. Because Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, I will say an elementary word, cannot survive without direct contact with the state of Serbia, without institutional ties, without the statehood of ours in Kosovo and Metohija, without territorial integrity and sovereignty of Kosovo and Metohija. And no one on the negotiating team has questioned these basic principles for a single moment, especially those who in this sense have sworn an oath before the citizens of Serbia and this house. Of course, I don't do it alone, although I need to say it once more, and to go a thousand times and in the future, I will not sign Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. I have no idea to sign Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I'm sure no politician in Serbia will do it today. Is that enough? Unfortunately, it's not enough. Because we are in a position to decide not only the citizens of Serbia and their institutions but also the international institutions on Kosovo and Metohija. I have an obligation before you to say that it has been discussed between Kosovo and Metohija in front of one of the international institutions, which is the UN Security Council, which has the final word and, of course, anyone who knows something about the organisation of a modern human society, knows, has that fact in mind. At the UN Security Council, where I was expressing a common policy, I remind you, and Prime Minister Kostunica and I have spoken from our two appearances in the Security Council what was agreed together, as the negotiating team in Vienna has spoken what was jointly agreed, a statement of unity between the state and national policies of the Republic of Serbia. During the UN Security Council debate, you all had the opportunity to hear the views of the Serbian state together, but you had the opportunity to hear the views of representatives of other countries. I mean, frankly, those attitudes aren't always the same. It's a political process, and as time moves on, and those attitudes will change, some will group, some will separate. But once again, you have had the opportunity to see for yourself, through the direct transfer of the UN Security Council, that the three countries have firmly stated that Kosovo's independence is also one of the legitimate options. It was France, Great Britain and the United States. There were countries that insisted on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. Most of all the countries in China, the Republic of China. A very similar attitude was expressed by a representative of Argentina. The Russian representative expressed his position, which is very principled and is in line with the political messages that Vladimir Putin, president of Russia, delivered just before the Security Council session on the universality of principles. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I need to say one elemental thing. No country in the world will defend the interest of another country unless it is in line with the same country's own interest. So neither the United States nor Russia nor China nor the UK nor France, any permanent member of the Security Council will represent the interest of the Serbian state unless it is part of their national interests. It is our interest to convince these permanent members of the Security Council that the interest of the Serbian state is their interest. We do it all the time in all our foreign political contacts, in all our efforts. If anyone thinks today in Serbia that it's enough to convince only one member of the Security Council, I have to tell you that's not true. Absolutely every permanent member of the Security Council, as well as those countries that are not, are only temporarily in the Security Council, are the subject of our attention and our extremely large foreign policy activities. We have the highest target today. Not only do we negotiate at the table led by Ahtisaari, because he was given the mandate of the UN Secretary-General, but we are constantly pressuring all members of the Security Council, primarily on permanent members, because in their hands there is the greatest potential for decision-making. The contact group I mentioned also makes consensus decisions. Ahtisaari is in charge of negotiations and has huge powers. He also has the authority to exclude those negotiating from the negotiating process, to which we have made a strong remark and we will still have talks about it, but I would like to say that at these three levels we must put diplomatic pressure on defending our legitimate, state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs in Kosovo and Metohija today live 130,000 Serbs. Two-thirds of our population from Kosovo and Metohija live in central Serbia today. Kosovo and Metohija are part of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia-Montenegro by Resolution 1244. Another document that defined the current position of Kosovo and Metohija and the practical situation in Kosovo and Metohija, where unfortunately we as a state do not have the instruments that every country has, not only the military and police, but also the judiciary and all other institutions of government, except Resolution 1244, is the Kumanov Military Technical Agreement. A military technical agreement was signed in Kumanovo on 9 June 1999. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not going to put a word out towards the political parties that have been dealing with Kosovo and Metohija so far, because this is absolutely not a day or time for such a thing. Since 9 June 1999 until today, it is almost seven years, all the political parties that are present in parliament have had more than a year to exercise power in Kosovo and Metohija, and all the political parties and all of us have had the opportunity to help our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. Someone more, some less, some year, some year and a half, some two or three, but not a year, a year and a half, you'll agree, it's not a negligible time to help people who live there more than hard, who live in Europe the hardest. They live in ghettos, in conditions that are absolutely unworthy of real life, in conditions for which Europe doesn't have the strength to admit that they are. That's what I'm trying to tell you. And in my conversations, I constantly get that impression and I convince international negotiators that this situation is happening to our fellow Americans. We all left our handwriting in Kosovo and Metohija and no one can erase it today. There's no political rubber that can erase that handwriting. No one has the right to say - I have no responsibility for the situation that is in Kosovo today. Absolutely no one. When the issue of political parties that today have legitimacy because of citizens' votes is on the agenda, I want to say immediately and to clarify certain political messages that have been going on, and from this meeting, and the previous days. All those political parties who have received their representatives in parliament have full legitimacy because they have been given to them by citizens. They have the right to claim, as well as others, to lead this country to Serbia. To repeat, once and for all, regardless of what it is sometimes politically appropriate to say that someone said what he did not say: no state can or wants to share, and at least me, but Serbia's citizens will decide which direction Serbia will go. If Serbian citizens decide to run this state by Serbian radicals, I will be part of that country. If Serbian citizens decide to run the DSS or G17 plus, I will be part of the state, as I was, as we were all at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's leadership. No one from this country intends to go, and we all have the right to represent our legitimate political views. No one has the right to fight politically against other people. Everyone has the right to fight for their political ideas, because it is one of the basic fluids and principles of a modern organisation of human society. That's my attitude on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want this address to the National Assembly, and I've been like you MP practically for almost ten years, turning it into a final word. Today in Serbia, no one has the right to the final word. Today in Serbia, no one has the right to remain silent after him. Today in Serbia -- which has to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija in 2006, negotiations on constitutional changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, remind you of our obligations as guarantees of the Dayton Treaty; today in Serbia that faces the new process before the International Court of Justice and the danger of our country being accused as a genocide state, which at no cost should be allowed; today in Serbia that is conducting Stabilisation and Association negotiations and implementation of the most powerful reforms; in Serbia today, which is catching its train with the European Union; in Serbia that needs to solve the specific problems of its citizens, but also to worry about its territorial integrity and sovereignty, because I say other than human lives, which are the most important, and territories are important, because people live in certain apartments, have their beliefs, have their identity – today in Serbia no one has the right to say the last word. Serbia today needs to hear the political ideas of all the legitimate representatives and citizens of this country. I never thought any other way than this, absolutely not at any time, but I will always fight, because it's my duty, for the ideas I've performed in front of citizens, completely openly seeking their trust, because I have no right to represent all political ideas at the same time. For those who have a dilemma on the subject, I will repeat once again, anyone who has received citizens' trust has the obligation to make those ideas on the basis of which he has received confidence represent until the last moment. In Serbia, there is an idea fight, not a human struggle. If people fight in Serbia, we have a civil war again. This is how we have a democratic society. I am giving great support to all those who are conducting negotiations in the process of decentralisation in an expert way today. On my part, I will work continuously in a joint negotiating position on Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's a top priority in the state of Serbia today. I think we all have an extraordinary responsibility. I remind you, the handwriting of all political parties, all leaders today are very visible in Kosovo and Metohija. At the end of this process, we will look ourselves in the eye, each of us will take responsibility and see what the citizens of Serbia say about what we did to our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24511	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24512	Dear MPs, at the very end of today's debate, I would only like to thank you in a few words, first of all, for your stated opinions. The intention of this session, as you know, was for the Serbian government to submit a report on the current course of negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, but it is not the only point, it is not the only one expected of this session. We were expected to hear your opinion as well. First of all, I would like, in that opinion, that MPs delivered in different ways, sometimes to agree with the report that was filed here, sometimes to slow down amongst themselves, to give thanks on that report. I would also like to thank you for the support you have provided for the report and the work of the negotiating team so far. There have been objections to this report, but basically I understand that once again all parties in the Serbian Parliament will stand behind what has been done for Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo and Metohija remain in Serbia and that Serbs remain in Kosovo and Metohija. It was in our discussion, and it was completely normal and nothing unusual when it comes to congregation discussion, of course, and wandering. But I am encouraged by the fact that, with all the wandering and arguing between us, we have always found ourselves on something that is the subject of today's debate, which is Kosovo and Metohija. There will be more reports, shorter perhaps, and I point out one fact, you could immediately see this, this is not just a report in recent months, since the negotiating team was formed, since the new phase of the debate on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. This is a back-up report, up to those first and very important fundamental documents adopted by the Serbian Parliament, up to the first resolution, to a plan that basically represents a predicting that the authorities in Kosovo could be decentralised, to establish Kosovo's autonomy within Serbia-Montenegro, and at the same time autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I want to assure you once again that the government and the negotiating team will continue to act in this direction and, above all, within the mandate you have given us through resolutions adopted in the Assembly, which you last gave us through a resolution adopted on 21 November last year. The government and the negotiating team will continue, as so far, to act publicly and, as it is said today very often, completely transparently. In that respect, I'd just like to point out a few things. First, it is up to the Serbian Parliament to decide how to discuss issues and future reports on negotiations or talks on Kosovo and Metohija will be discussed. If I can state something that is the government's position and what is my personal position, these sessions of the Assembly should always be public. Secondly, the platform adopted by the negotiating team and on which it is working is something that will be available to the Serbian Parliament. There's not a single piece that could be controversial. What is important is that the frameworks are set when it comes to the fact that every solution must be sought within the framework of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. Everything else is a concreteisation of this, and when it comes to decentralisation, and when it comes to this status of autonomy, what it is and what it will be within Serbia and, of course, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Finally, I would especially like to point out, since these conversations, as you might have noticed, started with a certain theme. The theme is decentralisation. The topic is more in the domain of what standards are, unfulfilled, unfulfilled human rights standards in Kosovo and Metohija. This topic of decentralisation has a completely different meaning than decentralisation has or local self-government has in normally organised democratic states. Decentralisation in Kosovo and Metohija serves not only to bring the government closer to the citizens, but also to protect Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija in order to guarantee elemental security, elemental freedom, ultimately freedom from the fear they live in. So that's the meaning of these decentralisation talks as one of these specific topics. I mean, as in the talks there will be more concrete topics, and decentralisation, and our cultural heritage, and the position of the SPC, and privatisation, and property, all these topics will be discussed. There's only one thing to talk about. The framework for our talks, the mandate for the negotiating team's talks, is with Kosovo within Serbia. It's the most important thing of all. Finally, thanks once again to all the objections, whether or not, which in their collection were constructive and encouraging for the further work of the negotiating team and the Serbian Government, I would like to highlight something and remind myself of something that I was talking about at the very beginning of today's session. What is our strongest foothold, Serbia's stand in battle, in defence of Kosovo and Metohija, in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija is now international law and our unity. This unity was seen in today’s session of the congregation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-02-27-0.u24513	Thank you. I'm finishing the search. After a search, the National Assembly will decide on a report on the course of talks on a political solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the sole item of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Monday, February 27th, 2006, at 18.58pm, as the day for voting on the single agenda of the 2006 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. So we'll approach the vote immediately. We move to a vote on the 1st item of the agenda: – REPORT ON THE TALKING OF THE POLICICAL SOLUTION OF THE FUTURE STATUS OF KOSOVS AND METOCHI After the National Assembly has conducted a search before we move to a decision, please establish a quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I understand we have a quorum and there are 226 MPs present in the O.R. I am putting to the vote the report on the course of talks on a political solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. For 226, everyone voted. I find that the National Assembly unanimously decided to accept the Report on the course of talks on a political solution to Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 99. [[Applause]] Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the 2006 session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you all for your responsibility.
