ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25573	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Veroljub Stevanović and Radic Jokovic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on mutual assistance and solidarity in the customs matters You have received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we've done a search of the bill in principle and in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROANING OF THE EUROPEAN REFERENCE AND DURING OF THE FUNDS OF THE SERBIA OF THE SERBIA AUTHORITY - NEW USA (single USA) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic, Verica Radeta, Branislav Rankić and Momir Marković on the proposal of the law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25574	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. Although the loan concluded the agreement and passed a law in the Assembly of the State Community and that law, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro gave guarantees to the borrower, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to the total amount of loans of 72m euros, and for the purpose of taking care of the highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade, there is an obligation to make counter-guarantee, because the state union is a question of whether a legal person, since he does not own property and is not aware of what it could guarantee. It appears here as one of the most common transmissions due to the international legal subjectivity of the state community, but because it does not have the opportunity to meet its means, then the one who practically owns the property, which is the Republic of Serbia, appears. I have to remind you that last year in this assembly we passed an appropriate act that practically initiated the procedure to give the appropriate concession, now I can't say exactly how much this share is and how much stage, but I know it covers the highway practically from Saturday to Požega. Well, the first phase to Belgrade, the second phase of Belgrade, is the share that will be shared, etc. I know that the Minister for Capital Investments in this Assembly has provided information that appropriate recording and cost-effectiveness have been carried out, including interest in that concession, because the number of passenger and other motor vehicles going on that route makes the concession profitable in the appropriate period. We know that this act to access the concession is also covered by shares from Novi Sad to Belgrade, and then we simply have to answer one question whether this credit that is being taken and these transactions that are being done on the basis of these funds, are they also entering a concession. So there would be no confusion to ask the question now - so what is said here, how to enter the concession; so you see, in that act that opens the concession procedure for the future highway from Nis to the Bulgarian border, there is also one share of the fully completed highway. Then here Minister Ilic said – well, yes, it is done, but we do, and we include it in a concession because of the need for future maintenance of that road section. Serbia does not have much luck with concessions, and in its history, governments have fallen in many concessions, I must tell you, and since we do not have a truly rational answer, which is why 72m euros in credit for something covered by the concession, I get the impression that two completely separate processes are being conducted at the same time. One process -- to find a future investor, someone who will take over that concession, while at the same time the state through its investor, the Road Directorate, ends a certain highway on the same track where the concession will be. You probably couldn't find a word that was a lie in my words so far. I tried to quote what the ministers, as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, said last year probably at two sessions of the National Assembly in this booth, and on the cost of concessions and on this fact that some finished shares are included in the subject of concession. Because there's really a question of why these funds are needed. Is it possible that whoever gives these funds, this financial institution from Europe, is thus prejudicing things about the future concessionary, whether these funds buy this concession law; whether the Republic of Serbia is entering a process where it is very difficult to distinguish where it starts and where it ends and where it starts and where someone else ends? We don't have that information, there's no project, there's no more detailed explanation, except for the fact that these funds are needed for a section of the highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade. Behind those few words can be everything and everything, and we don't have the right to believe, without being able to question anything and possibly criticise anything if something's wrong. Since this government has cheated on us multiple times through its ministers, then we need to distinguish some things that are liars here. For Minister Dinkic, they're liars when they quote his words. Unfortunately, that's the way it is; everyone's sweeter than someone else's, and of course everyone wants to be right, so no matter what he says. But when we quote government, then it turns out that we're lying, when we quote that there's a surplus, and there's obligations we're lying again, when we say there's no surplus, that he's fictitious, we're lying again. When we say, you talked about the concession, you're going to give in the concession and this section of the highway, they're going to say – you're lying. And to get a stenogram to read, we probably don't know how to read. We don't know how to read their thoughts, but we do know how to read their words. We believe that the Republic of Serbia is going uncontrollably into some obligations. Whether it's 150 euros in a pocket a mile or something, some personal income, others will think about it, others will determine it, only it must be known that for one share there shouldn't be several sources of funds and several basic obligations of the Republic of Serbia. We are afraid that this uncontrollable and end-of-the-art problem, the Republic of Serbia, is entering into some obligations. It will take 72m euros, something sure will be done with that money, and what we are sure will later be a matter of some concession. It's possible that someone could come out and say that it refers to a bridge in Vienna. Of course, I left this for last. Whoever is talking about that bridge would have to be well informed first as far as this process is concerned, what is the situation, to look at what the chambers and professional associations have written around that bridge, the future and the existing, to think a little about the citizens who once protested, because the SRS will not be satisfied with those sentences - I don't know what it is, all I know is that a new bridge should be built on the Danube near Beška and that it is an integral part of the highway Novi Sad - Belgrade. Keep in mind what is behind these figures, keep in mind what is behind the simultaneous initiative that the Republic of Serbia is in charge of the same share, and then give the same share as the subject of some concession. We are obliged to warn you of this, because the 17th item of the agenda contains our warning that we gave a year ago when it comes to counter-guarantee for mining equipment. That's when we told you it was going to happen and here it was six months ago, you came practically with another law on the same thing. You interpret correctly, correctly and correctly what we say about some points of the agenda and do not think that you can defend against our criticism only by a sentence – radicals lie. I've tried several examples to tell you that you're accusing us of lies when we quote you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25575	The word has an MP, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25576	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this loan, the situation is quite clear. The minister said, when it was a principle debate, that most of it refers to the bridge at Beska, it is not in the concession. There was a public competition, it reported, next to our company, headed by the Bridge, and otherwise by a consortium, several foreign companies. The expert group that reviewed the projects estimated that our project is the best and for 11m euros cheaper than the first one. In this consortium there are several thousand people; take the members of their families, it's a few thousand people who are very interested in building that bridge. The situation is completely clean and non-guarantee for building this bridge would be truly strange and simply amazing, so that someone would find himself against that guarantee. I'm very familiar with the whole case, because in these companies, there's a large number of machine engineers I've had more conversations with these days, or months or two, about all of it. Therefore, it is half the Serbian economy that would be engaged in building a bridge at Beska.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25577	The members of the Legislative Committee on the Third Floor shall have a meeting, immediately. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25578	I'm sorry I'm a little late, but they kept me at Aeroengineering. Before I move on to the defence of the amendments, I have a few things to meet you people's representatives, the minister and the public of Serbia. In Aeroengineering, they didn't receive their salary for three months, went out to the Yugoslav Hotel and strike. A case that is, after all, evident in the whole Serbian economy and nothing would be strange if it weren't for some things that were behind it all. Of course, not everyone lost their pay. General Director Milutin Mrkonjic received a salary of 700,000 dinars through "Astra Simita". To inform Mr. Socialist, Deputy Director-General is Bane Ivkovic. He under 600,000 certainly didn't win. It's the same Bane Ivkovic who was guarding the murdered Slobodan Milosevic, when he was arrested by the dosmania. It's the same Bane Ivkovic who took one of your wings and went away, your traitor. Do you see any of the MPs of the SRS communicating and talking to these traitors? You do what you do with your traitors, that's your problem. In addition, the other thing behind the hill is that now the BK Television that stands out of Karic's system, because that journalist Maric needs to be the CEO, owes incredible figures to Aeroengineering, and that is why people cannot pay their salaries, and the money for the salary of the Director General and the BK Television maintenance money was provided by Gilas, director of the National Office. Citizens of Serbia, when you address the National Office, so when you get that kind letter – despite our best wishes we are unable to satisfy, etc., lie to you, the money has been provided for others, and now you can only see how connected it is, how entangled the Serbian political scene is and what is behind the surface. As for giving counter-guarantee to build a bridge at Beška and the highway, we're already on the bridge at Beška, I think... In fact, you brought it in, we voted against, the 120 million-dollar counter-guarantee Act, we tasked the state of Serbia to build that second bridge, and after that, Velimir Ilic announced it, we will give it to the concessionaire. This second loan – it also needs a highway to build it, so that a man does not suffer, because if he already separates half or half of the profits to satisfy certain fatty geese, then to build it all the way to the end. It doesn't matter that Serbia is in charge at all. I suggest that in the voting day, you adopt the amendment I filed in front of the SRS Parliament Club and not give counter-guarantee to this loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25579	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25580	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP is required to speak the truth behind the pay phone. The Socialist Party of Serbia paid a high price in the previous term for illegal, unconstitutional, non-human, non-legislative and whatever you want the conduct of the entire DOS Administrative Board and DOS government in total. It's no secret who stood up to it and who eventually went to the junkyard of history. Dear colleagues will remember, and today I will repeat: Serbia's Socialist Party is organized as a swarm of bees, and bees have never flown behind a drone. Bane Ivkovic could never have been a queen. Bane Ivkovic is the past of the SPS, and whatever he is today, I am fully convinced that he will do so where he is going to fail. I'm sorry it happened, but it's just the truth. They're not SPS traitors, they've betrayed the idea they believed in. They would betray everyone and act like the worst peasant player, otherwise it's an honorable profession – they play who pays more. That's why they have no place in the SPS, neither now nor in the future. The SPS is fine, thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25581	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've had more opportunities to hear Mr. Momir Markovic trying from this pay phone with some cheap humor to cheer the public up. I'm also saying that this same Mr. Momir Markovic has been beaten by honest radicals in Surcin. Something similar happened in Lazarevec, which is why I stepped out of the SRS, and I said, always these kind of people who are suspicious of morality, I'll always come out and answer to them. I don't want anyone to mess with my personality and call me one or another man. I know why I did it, the Serbian public has been informed, which is why I did it, and I will always stand by the right and honest people, and like Markovic, I do not want to mention a word about him. I'm fenced, he doesn't belong with the real Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25583	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25584	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really haven't seen a person here. It seemed to me one moment that the National Assembly had stopped working, because no one had ever been behind the pay phone. But let's put that aside. I would like to take the opportunity – and this is just informative to the SPS, I just wanted the SPS MPs to know what's going on behind it – and to ask Mr. Dinkic another question. How is it, Minister, that a man who built a water line in India and who was owed a million euros by the Indji municipality and who was given a million euros because the Indji municipality had been tried for three, four years and could not be paid for it, had no funds to pay the tax, introduce bankruptcy and take the stamps and ban the work, and the court decided to block the jury's account of the Indji municipality's "water" and that these funds are being rerouted to pay off this debt. Now to a man who is owed 50 times more than he is liable for tax, you introduce bankruptcy. I'd like you to explain how that, if it has nothing to do with that Jesic and it has nothing to do with some dances and it has nothing to do with your old practice not to force the debtor, but to force the trustee. After all, it happened with four banks, when you choked the banks, you choked the creditors, and the entire economy that was in debt remained free of that debt. Please don't mess with the fates of the people and the fates of the economy, the private, which is the only one in this country that works.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25585	Was that a parliamentary question, Mr. Markovic? (Momir Markovic: Yes, I want an answer right away.) All right. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic, a replica in the name of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer at all... Can't a little quiet? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't have answered my word at all if I hadn't heard from this pay phone if someone had been beaten by honest radicals in Surcin. Now you'll hear why I answered. That honest radical someone thought of here, fair, just as fair as the one who said it, and took the mandate of the party who earned it in the elections, a judicial verdict convicted of rape and aided the DS today in power. He joined the Democratic Party. You should be ashamed and ashamed. That's fair, isn't it? Whatever they are, out of these billions of times we are not fairer, but people, just like these here (now they are not in jeans), than those who say they have entered the strongest and greatest fight against corruption, and the day will come when they, like those who are arrested today, will be responsible for all the crimes in the sphere of corruption and crime that they have committed against our people. I know it's the government that can arrest whoever they want, whenever they want, the way they want. I know there's always truth in everything they say. We talked about Kljajevic and many others a long time ago. I also know that in those who have been arrested, there are also those responsible for the same serious crimes, that they have been robbing Serbia for years, but that they are not yet arrested because the change in government has not occurred. When it comes to the change of government, then things will come out and then everyone, and to God's sakes, will come out of the criminal circles in the same place. Only then will we be able to free Serbia from corruption and say that Serbian citizens will have a chance to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25587	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone said yesterday that the minister of capital investment, since he is the beneficiary of half of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is "half-drinking half of Sarcu" in the system, finishing jobs in Serbia. In that proportion, he a little bit more as far as this first part is concerned, he's pulling on his side. When it comes to the entire Serbian budget and when it comes to this money and these millions of euros that the Republic of Serbia is in charge, authorized for this item of the agenda, and the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, who signed the decision on this counter-guarantee, must certainly bear in mind that Velimir Ilic, who is the end-user, by the way, will be told by these funds, the one who decides when and at what stages, whether it is the bridge in Vienna, whether it is the reconstruction of the works of the highway, the one that Chume was doing, your protected witness, and I see that he is walking there, whether it is so Verice, by Surcin, and before that he has cost the state millions of dinars as a protected witness. I must tell you that you are entering not only a dangerous arrangement, but to us, you leave a great burden to the future authorities. Mr Dinkic, last year you came to the Assembly and offered us half a billion euros of various counter-guarantees that will be directly used, so through you, by the Ministry of Capital Investments. I must warn you that the money in hand is given to a very risky man, a man who has not delivered a report to us today, nor to the Committee on Traffic and Connections, on the spending of funds by the Republic Road Directorate. If it's any stock, I'll tell you now, Požega - Uzice, there's this one from Požega in front of me, come out of the shot, you're distracting me... My colleague, will you please, really, I'm mentioning to Pozega, be so kind as to listen to what's going on in your neighborhood. So, if it is Požega - Uzice, if it is the Grocka, the Bubanj stream, if it is any share where the reconstruction was carried out during Chumet, during the rule of Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, there is no report, Minister Dinkic, in front of the MPs. If there is, it's all ink; we're asking about the waste of the material, it's not shown properly. Then we are not surprised when extraordinary local elections come or initiated by the impeachment of the president of the municipality, and when Velimir Ilic shows up as the minister of capital investment, who promises with his hand and hat, then comes into one village, and says, "Not two kilometers, four kilometers of time, I will give you what it is for me, and five more. Here's where this money came from. As for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, they also offered to give these loans to Ilic and your government, such as for the reconstruction of the Beška bridge, we will see what kind of report will be, whether it is majority, what Professor Simonovic was talking about, or whether something else will be done along the way. You know what the problem is? You are asking MPs to approve counter-guarantees for 72m euros, and there are no reports, from committee to committee, six months of annual report, there is no annual report on the funds spent, and that is what this is all about. Especially since we're a party, I think that's how the whole people feel, who are seriously considering it, against that kind of borrowing. If you were talking about the bridge in Beško, and the problems of that bridge and the reconnaissance over what condition it has repeatedly been apostrophe by MP Disic from the SRS, then it could also be covered by the concession process already done for this section. Why are you bringing the country into a new kind of adventure, and how long until the end of the year are we going to have such counterguarantees? When you came from a counterguarantee last year with a set for those half a billion, first 200 million, and then 300 million, you said, that's my legacy from that previous government, from that DOS regime, I simply because of the obligation of the Republic, now it's on the agenda, I have to put it on. This is now what you are proposing and there is no difference between you and Djelic and the former minister and the former government. You act the same way, and you do the same. We don't think that's good, because all of you have made economic budgets and that you've had in mind these parameters of how our economy is moving and where the state is located, you could come up with the fact that first of all this 2006 you won't be able to have as much income as you did last year, because in the first year, the charge of value added tax was much higher with all your fiscal press. Economists and these people from the Institute of Market Research, who have announced these days what it will look like in 2006, and these are your colleagues by profession, you must consider their opinion, and above all, the people concerned and us who represent this people, say that this year will be much worse than the previous one. More orderly records and, above all, a precise VAT record for high sentences, for the fact that your inspectors and the tax administration have been pressuring entrepreneurs, for what little economy does, and that a fifth of the economy is still able to operate just because it takes credit. As you take this credit for the reconstruction of this stock, so did a fifth of the Serbian economy to pay the salaries, because you haven't reduced those contributions from 73% to 60% and something promised to the employees, it remains that rate for tax employees and contributes to the highest of all countries in the environment... So you didn't keep that promise, and now you're asking citizens who are full of budgets to be counterguarantees, that is, the republic in which they live, where they do business or not, where they're jobless, for a project like this. You've probably been thinking, since you're the one who makes the budget and makes the annual construction of income and expenditure items, what could you do, if you already have some strategic plans for the state, we're not saying that it's not supposed to be done, just work, this share, and that the reconstruction of the bridge in Vienna is done, especially because we can't predict it in this crowded course of the Danube or some next year, don't God forbid it's going to go on like that. You know, these people who experienced something like this when they were little, both in the Danube and Tisa, they just wonder where it happened. But an accident and an accident happens to a people, and so do we, we now have to fight and see that the country does not take the steps of a cut-off and determined manner, but is done by the army and volunteers of citizens, as is the case today in Zemun, on April 13, when, like many members of our party, today is the most critical day and already in Graditation at 917 centimeters, the unrecorded growth of the Danube is unrecorded. Now that that's all, then you could think on the principle of saving on one side and cutting costs and red tape of public spending, that you don't give so much money to these National Office thieves, because that's tens of millions of euros. You put it in the hands of this Tadic tycoon of Gilas and the Shutanite, and who doesn't store it there. Then you founded the Export Promotion Agency, which was about 50 million. I'm not saying that you should have completely deleted those items, but you find savings a little bit, and you say -- that's going to go for the project, and then to the units of the local self-government, which they asked for and which are unable to get the arrangements of some favourable, just like this European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to allow as a Government... And I'm telling you this because of the city I come from, there is no such loan, but Stevanovic went to be in charge of the business banks for 500 million dinars for the past year, is that right, fellow Vucicevic, half a billion dinars of one city's debt and you are now moving on to something that will inevitably lead us into debt slavery. How do you repay these loans, and so you will load us a new ballast as future authorities, when your real GDP growth for 2006, and in 2005, it was 6.1%, and now they predict that it will be below 4% for those few reasons. So, also because of the fact that this amount of credit is in euro, remember, in euros, and as such it returns to its equivalent, and that the dinar today is underestimated and that its real value is a table for one euro, instead of the current 88.7 or 89 as it moves. So you did another thing that you completely destimulated our exporters, because who's going to be struggling to produce a product, or vegetables, or some processed meat or anything else or live cattle to export, to have someone give it back, or the state in that middle course, that's about 88 dinars, and he knows that it's at least 100 dinars. The whole concept of economics and such borrowing is chaos for the Serbian economy and for what will happen to us this year. That's how you send the wrong message to the voters, that's what these MPs do, and you're ready wherever you show up to praise this banking sector, because that's the lobby that's holding you and you're in control. Then you say -- it's no problem, we take the loan, we get it back. Citizens are over-indebted, so they don't know anymore, especially through this economic category -- the cost of the credit, from the bank to the bank, they don't know how much it is, and that's in percent, how much they really owed. We are against this, and we believe that from real sources and through numerous savings all jobs and key infrastructure jobs in one country can be done and that such arrangements cannot contribute to the stability of our economy, because from debt to debt we enter more and more and ultimately we do not know how much we owe. We can speculate and read the numbers. Internal debt is really big. The question is, do you at this point know how much internal debt is, when you count everything that citizens owe to the state and what they owe to banks that are very rigorous? Don't be affected by the situation, as is the case in Canada, let's say that you don't only talk about these countries that have passed the transition, but as is true in the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, that people have to sell out everything because they're so mortgaged and through bank loans. Our country must not allow it, but must be stable, by starting an economy to move into development and infrastructure and everything we need. When you have constant economic growth, which is falling to you because you only have imports of wide-ranging goods in January of the month for 392 million dinars, which is a really big number, so from month to month, then you come into a situation that indicators can't justify such a task, that it's not good. What would you do in the end when you're the leader of that Dossian conglomerate that came to power by promising six billion dollars of grants? Out of those six billion dollars of grants, which are about to go, they waited at the Hungarian border, and they never entered our country, you could have made five bridges in Beška, I don't know how many highways and highways, to envy us Spanish, Italians, Germans and all developed countries in the West. This is a risky and dangerous arrangement for the citizens of Serbia, because the Republic is guaranteed by all these borrowings. We are explicitly against it, and that is why I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that Article 2 of this counterguarantee be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25589	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group cannot vote in favour of the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance the restoration of shares of Belgrade's highway -- Novi Sad. I purposely read the full name of this counterguarantee, so that it would be understood what this is about and what is the principle of the SRS's position not to vote for this bill. We have expressed our position by proposing, individual MPs from our parliamentary group, that all these members should be deleted and that this law cannot be adopted in this way. Of course, we suggested in the principle debate that he step down, but the government's representative didn't react. We didn't expect anything like that, though. So it is that this bill gives the Republic of Serbia counter-guarantee to Serbia-Montenegro. We think it is very dangerous to give and propose such counter-guarantees, not only because of this referendum expected in Montenegro, we are sure that the referendum in Montenegro will show that most citizens in Montenegro want a common state with Serbia, even stronger than this state community of yours, that you baptized it, but it is amazing that one of the republics guarantees a common state. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise Serbia-Montenegro's state union in advance? Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is already trying to clear up accounts with the common state? We Serbian radicals think it's inadmissible and the government shouldn't have suggested something like this. This is not the first guarantee of this kind, but this is certainly one of our basic remarks on the whole of this text. The second remark is contained in the reasons for the amendment. It was explained that the Serbian Parliament agreed, I recall, on a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to issue a share of Belgrade's highway -- Novi Sad at a concession. Mr Dinkic and the gentlemen who will vote for this bill should be defined: either you are for this counter-guarantee or you are for concession. It is amazing that the state is in charge of Serbia's citizens, of taking credit to build some highway and then giving it to someone for concession. So, somebody's gonna collect income, and the state's gonna pay off the loans. That's certainly not good. And that's one of the basic reasons why we won't vote for this law. For the sake of the public, I must say that this counter-guarantee is worth 72m euros. We think Serbia's and Serbia's citizens are too in charge. Today we only have 12 counterguarantees; not all are expressed in euros, but in some of us completely unknown units, but we'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. We think it is unserious and irresponsible of the government of the Republic of Serbia to only propose taking new loans. What my colleague Jovanovic said earlier, I wonder if you, Minister, are at this moment or at any moment able to answer the extent of the duties of the Republic of Serbia, or all citizens of Serbia. You can hardly follow it yourself, although it is obvious that you are one of the main legislators of these laws. Enough for the citizens of Serbia and these personal and individual duties in various foreign banks you brought to Serbia when you closed Serbian banks. Of course, no one makes citizens take these loans; now you can answer me this, which I know, just like you do. It's just that people are too hard to live on, they're a lot of low wages, they're daily gatherings, and these kind of circumstances make them run a little light-mindedly and take some of those credits. Then the question is, how are they gonna get them back, when are they gonna get them back? I can tell you that I am seriously afraid, especially since the Mortgage Act came into effect, although at the time we warned Serbian citizens not to run into these mortgage loans, I fear that people will slowly begin to remain without their immovable property. And, then we have on one side in the media, you simply act as a citizen, they don't know how to behave, ministers, you praise banks, you praise loans, housing loans, and on the other hand, the governor shows up and warns the citizens – don't take credit on a living head, you'll get into this particular situation that I'm talking about. It's just that citizens don't know what real information is. Then, on the other hand, they read in the paper that this same governor got some very favourable credit. Of course, he won't tell Serbian citizens that he got the loan, so that others might in the same way solve the housing issue, with citizens who are interested in it having no intention of buying a villa on the Dedinj like Jelasic and are willing to take credits, favourable loans, and to pay all the obligations towards the state neatly, to pay sales taxes, not to cover the tax, as Governor Jelasic did, but of course, citizens cannot get such information. This reminds me very much of one of the former ministers from Djindjic, and later Zivkovic's government, when we showed him a magnificent villa here in Zemun, which he made during his time as minister, very interesting. Then the minister said he had raised a very favourable loan, but that he couldn't, when asked, tell other citizens how he got it, which the bank gives such favourable loans. That former minister is, of course, not to mention his name, because he is completely irrelevant, if I mention his name, he will remember, if he sees this, that he was once a minister, otherwise so irrelevant that he no longer remembers it, but the villa in Zemun is still standing. He then said he couldn't tell the MPs, or the citizens who he got the credit from, from which banks, because it's, imagine, an official secret. It was one pearl over the pearls, but over time it became clear, with the appearance of the then secret, now-opened Tadic's tycoon, this Gilas, who boasts... I don't know if you, Minister, followed it, and whether you are monitoring whether Tadic's biggest tycoon is paying the tax neatly for what he boasts, because he said that Toma Nikolic lied when he said that his income, that is, is 400,000 euros a month; he said it was not true, that it was two million euros. Well, Minister, for you, the question is that your services check out whether he actually pays taxes on those two million euros a month for how much he earns, because he said it on a TV show himself. To return to this counter-guarantee and at all the counter-guarantees you offer us through these laws. It seems to me that these counter-guarantees came at a particularly specific moment, when it comes to the Minister of Capital Investments, who is normally responsible for spending all of this money on behalf of the Serbian citizens, because you obviously gave Velimir Ilic half of Serbia's budget, or Serbia's citizens' money, and then he goes along well in Serbia, promises towers and cities. We wouldn't mind if he promised to build something and actually build it. We would praise that, but it is about your colleague Velimir Ilic going to some local election campaign and offering money from the republican budget there and saying, I suppose you heard it, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia heard when he said – what he said to me as a minister to steal five kilometers and make an asphalt there in a village where elections are currently being held. I asked Minister Ilic, and I asked you too, Minister Dinkic, how many times do you think Velja Ilic has said herself that he has no problem stealing it, stole it, and instead of paved some streets in a village he puts the money in his pocket. This is one of the reasons why we are very careful when you propose such laws, especially when we know that there will soon be actual elections in Novi Pazar, which are by far specific, first of all, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to disband the assembly in Novi Pazar, which is very suspicious, given the Law on Local Self-Government. It is also known that the decision was taken two days before the decision to call a referendum on a vote of no confidence to the President of the municipality, Suleyman Ugljanin. As for the SRS, we are in a coalition at the municipal level with, among other things, the party Rasim Ljajic, but I am not even saying this to protect Rasim Ljajic and his party, nor Sulejman Ugljanin and his party, but rather something very interesting to me when it comes to your party friend, Mr Labus, Deputy Prime Minister. He said in Nis, it seems to me, two days ago, that this government decision is a scandal. Maybe he's right, but then there's the question of how did that in the official messenger come up with a decision that Labus just signed? That says enough about Mr. Labus' political morality. I can understand that he disagrees with some decision made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can also understand that he thinks it's a scandalous decision. I know that as Deputy Prime Minister he should and is obliged to sign all government decisions, but if he has to sign a scandalous decision, then the least he would do would be to say -- thank you, Vojislave Kostunica, thank you to my fellow ministers, because as Deputy Prime Minister, I cannot sign a scandalous decision. So much for the vice president's morale. Maybe someone might think that everything I've mentioned has nothing to do with this counter-guarantee. And it has to do with both this and all the other counter-guarantees that we're going to talk about today, as well as these arrests we're hearing about on TV, and we don't know exactly what's going on yet, but I'm going to do it on some other amendment, because here's already approaching the 15th minute, or the end of the 15th minute. But let me just say in one sentence why this is all important. Because this is also one of the laws that means a lot of money, 72m euros, and if we have such people in the government that I mentioned, suspicious morals, then indeed SRS MPs, and I'm convinced Serbian citizens, they have also reason to fear being in charge of this kind of money and to make them available to such people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25591	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Just one notice before I give you my word: the 67th session of the Administrative Board will be held immediately in the second floor room.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25592	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, whenever I go to the pay phone, the chairman has some notice, some explanation, and only when I'm going out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that she has flossula, expressed there in 2001 or 2000 by one of the leaders of DOS – who wants morale to go to church, became the first member of the statutes of that DOS and looks holy letter. No morals. What is this amendment and what is it about, anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs remember when we talked about the highway, before you from the ruling coalition decided that the Horgos highway - Požega to be under concession, that we warned you at that time, with data, documents, facts, that only the daily toll could build the highway, the second tape of Horgos - Novi Sad and the highway of Belgrade - Požega. You decided to give a 33-year-old highway from Belgrade to Novi Sad, i.e. to Beška, to give a half-way from Novi Sad to Horgos and then a proposal for a counter-guarantee bill for a 120m-euro loan to build a second bridge at Beška appears. And you made a decision to give counterguarantee at one of the previous sessions, again with opposition from the Serbian Radical Party MPs and again with an explanation that you are building something that a concessionary should and should build. Here's today's proposal for a counterguarantee law for 72m euros. We re-deploy Serbia's state and rebuild that second section of the highway and then we'll bring a man for "thank you very much" and give him the highway for 33 years. At the price of the then toll collection from Belgrade to Vrbasa of 130 and 70 dinars, two payment ramps, it was possible to build a complete highway. Today the toll on that part is twice as expensive, 400 dinars, so another highway. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who are these and this much money being poured into their pockets? If we know that the Minister of Capital Investments in the election campaign said that he didn't steal anything from a 6km highway and that in some local elections, he could promise the airport in Chukojevac and all the bridges, all two bridges on the same river for the same route, so you want to go to the left bridge, you want to go to the right, that he can pave the miles around the village, that he can do what he wants and how he wants, but he can't go as far as he wants. The election's coming up. I know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to make a good part of the minister now, to arrest them now, and to tell them all five years in prison, many would say, in, I did well. Unbelievable, it's kleptocrat, total and no rest. Do you think after the election, this Serbia should live, when you are no longer on the political stage, when you go to a political asylum. Do you think your kids won't... However, yours will not, for that promise in the 2000 election campaign when you gave it to us. If you give us authority, we will all live well; the people gave you votes, gave you authority, and all of you lived well. As it is to the people, it's a different story, but you kept your promise. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I address the MPs who will surely press the red button in the day of the vote, look how much they owe us to the throat, and tomorrow they will say, "Here you are now, so rule." That nine billion dollars was due to this country when they took over the government and now it's over $15 billion, of course not counting these counterguarantees... Contragration means you're taking credit tomorrow at the same time. We'll talk about it some other time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25593	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25594	It is obvious that officials have already made a decision and they will vote in favour of this bill. I would ask those who are in any contact with Mladjan Dinkic to inform him that at least this part of the stenogram he follows will be given an answer to the question of who is lying. Last night he informed the public that everything they say is true, so now let's see what's written in the law. At first, I must say that there are no words written in these papers – a bridge on the Danube near Beška. In the beginning, on the matter of the first amendment, I said in advance, I drew attention to those who think it refers to the bridge should convince me where, even in an explanation, it is written that it is a bridge. As far as I can see, there's no bridge here, and someone came out after me to discuss the amendment and say, "The Bridge," 11 million are cheaper than others, etc. What's this about? I am fully aware that the proposal for a counterguarantee law does not require all the details concerning the guarantee law given by the federal state, so it is not necessary to give the whole agreement, as it is said, but at least to have a basic knowledge of what such large funds are intended for. This is what the Government wrote in Section 5 of the Law Proposal – an analysis of the effects of the law – at the same time, the solutions provided for in the draft law would also have an effect on the protection of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (meaning protecting the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development), as a lender, given that the Republic of Serbia, under the provisions of the Bill, assumes that as a counterguarantee, Serbia's obligations etc. Well, since this is a very long sentence, at the end of that sentence – which includes the design, supervision and work needed for rehabilitation (rehabilitation means if someone is sick and sent) and raising to a higher level of quality, both the shares of the highway planned for reconstruction and the highway in the Republic of Serbia in general. Is this for the highway to Belgrade - New Sad or the Shop - Vranje, I don't know what you wrote here. At the same time, it will also have a positive effect in terms of hiring more economic operators. As far as I know, these business entities of ours are screaming about being shut out of this business. Now, let's see what's in the bill. I will return to Article 3: "The funds for the repayment of loans under Article 1 of this Law will be provided by the Republic Road Directorate (hereinafter referred to as: Borrower). "This is very important. So the real borrower is the Republic Road Directorate. In any case, it is one para-state body of the Republic of Serbia, not a ministry, but an organisation that deals with certain investment affairs and maintains roads in Serbia. He says, "The borrower is obliged to provide funds for the loan to be paid according to the repayment plan for all the funds withdrawn," means for all the funds that have been paid by that loan, "in the amount that includes", and now listen to, "income capital, calculated interest on withdrawn funds, costs for non-retired funds", watch out, costs for undrawn funds, "and other expenses". It's something prescribed in that agreement. The third position: "The borrower will provide funds for the loan," means the Republic Roads Directorate, "from its own income, by paying off the commitments made to the account opened exclusively for the purpose of paying off loans to the National Bank of Serbia. "And that can be understood. Item 4: "If, on the basis of the counterguarantee issued, the Republic of Serbia fulfils the obligation instead of the borrower... "; therefore, attitude 4 has some logical connection to attitude 2 where the scope of that obligation is spoken of. Now, the Republic of Serbia, as a counterguarantee, has the right to vomit. What can she throw up? The principal, interest and accompanying costs resulting from non-execution, i.e. untimely execution of the obligation, up to the level of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the borrower the calculated legal interest. The state is persecuting its organization, and you can kind of understand it, although these terms are not clear what all these costs are, but in the end they are defined, what was the obligation, the Republic of Serbia has paid and so much can be paid to whoever it has given the counterguarantee to pay. What's in the last attitude is not clear to anyone. Tell the minister the next time he writes such a law that he must first make one scheme, take a chalk or pencil, if he takes a chalk he must have a board, and write: The Republic of Serbia - one, the Republic of Serbia's Road Directorate - two, the budget of the Republic of Serbia - three, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia there is an application concerning the Republic of the Road Directorate - four. There are many more concepts to overcome, but now listen to what is said in Article 5 3: "Right to recover the funds set out in Article 4 of this Article, the Republic of Serbia will achieve by reducing the funds from established budget projections and subsidies... ", meaning, from what is set out in the budget for the Republic Road Directorate. That's clear, but this is still unclear: "or, if the borrower is not the beneficiary of the budget... ". The Road Directorate is a user or not a beneficiary of the budget? Your minister doesn't know the Budget System Act, probably because Djelic wrote it. The Republic Roads Directorate under the Budgetary System Act is a beneficiary of the appropriations. How could you predict here that she could be in a legal position, that she wasn't a beneficiary of the budget? It means "or, if the borrower is not the beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budget funds, initiate payment from the borrower's account, based on the authority obtained from the borrower or others" etc. From this alternative formulation, where the Roads Directorate is treated as a beneficiary of the budget and alternatively gives that it is not a beneficiary of the budget, it is concluded that this loan buys the strategic right and strategic position of the future concessionary, and that these funds serve as a racket that the state promises something in advance and of course we do not know for which purposes these funds will be spent. Article 4 on which this amendment has also been submitted says the law is in effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. I must tell you that, in the light of the draft law, in Chapter VI, the orderly reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and to state another illogicality, that in the reasons for the adoption of this law (chapter II) it is stated that a ratified agreement with this bank has been introduced in the Assembly of the State Community, and that it is then said that this should be completed urgently. So, the emergency procedure here has been practically since 29 June 2005. It's almost a year before the emergency procedure. I am not saying this anymore because of the MPs who are here, because they are already defined, not because of the minister who left the hall, this is a matter of some coalition agreement and at all the process of European integration by system as much as possible in debt and to secure strategic positions. And why not say that this is how the Republic of Serbia's market is given to a foreigner. That's why I'm asking you to take care of the vote. Radicals will probably not be in the hall when this law is voted upon, and you, if you think to help the economy of the Republic of Serbia and to seduce some order in spending these public funds, I suppose you could have noticed from this criticism of Article 3 that there is no mistake unless this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25595	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROANING OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FUNDING PROJECT FOR THE BETTERMENT OF THE SCHOOL - SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DANIUM CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR RURALITY (PROGRAMME OF THE REVITALISATION OF THE INDICATION SYSTEM AND SERBIA OF SERBIA) You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR Development (SERBIA COMPONENT AND BLACK GORE - PROJECT FOR SERBIA) (SERVES) (SERVES) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the bill: Veroljub Arsic, Vitomir Milosevic, Nikola Todorovic, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić and Nemanja Sarović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25596	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the issue of continuing borrowing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia through some permanent counter-guarantee, the necessity of these loans, and then it is said that simply this loan had to be used, because it allegedly lacks money, and some work has to be done. If a bit of the law itself is combed, which is already in force, the Republic of Serbia, as a counterguarantee, must provide funds in the budget for all the counterguarantees it issues. So, we owe Serbia's Elektroprivred in this case, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia keeps money in some kind of banks, which in a certain way re-indebted the Elektroprivred and so on. To make the tragedy bigger, we owe our money to our economic operators, our citizens, and someone else has the sole benefit. The question arises in general about the justification of borrowing Serbia's Elektroprivreda, for several reasons. The electricity price is ten times higher than it was before 5 October 2000. What is the economic power of this population that can pay that high electricity price and what is the justification for constantly insisting on price increases? We now have a loan that raises EPS and ESMs, though not in euro, not in dollars, in some special rights to draw; I don't see why it's not written how much it really costs, how much it's going to cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think we owe them. To all MPs who vote for this bill I ask the question – people, do you know what you vote for, perhaps some of you are interested in it? The minister says -- it's like a rapping point or whatever it is, you don't know exactly, it's not always at the same time as he said. Let's know how much we owe at the same time, how much we're going to be in debt and how much we need to go back, not write some currencies that don't exist anywhere and nobody has seen. Here's a similar story to the highway concession; it goes a little bit different over time, it's a little slower, but the story's the same. In a previous law that spoke of giving counter-guarantee to Belgrade highway -- Novi Sad, it means someone should exploit a certain infrastructure not some period. A concessionary, and that's what you plan to do here, as soon as you separate the EPS, the ESM, etc., so it's inevitable. You've even passed a new mining law, where it's determined in which way anyone can make concessions, and the electricity industry is also tied to mining. What's the point? To put the state in charge as much as possible, to put that infrastructure in place as possible, and then to someone else. Then it is an excuse, but he will pay the remaining debt. Well, maybe it will for some years, but when you withdraw a loan, there are certain deadlines while that money is being used, and that infrastructure is being adjusted, and credit repayment deadlines are going on. Why doesn't he take the one who's gonna spend the concession? Why us? Why Serbia's citizens? When it comes to electricity prices, some permanent rapper is the price of electricity in EU countries. Why don't we look at how much it really costs us a kilowatt hour? Employees in the EU who work in electricity, or wherever you want, have salaries of two, three, four thousand euros. With a person with 400, 500 euros, he can bend his hat, he has a high salary. As much as they cost electricity from the thermal power plant, no matter whether it's coal, whether it's nuclear energy, how much potential they have in water accumulations, no one's talking about it. No one is saying that Serbia, at least in the part of the hydro potential, is in a much more favourable situation, because the kilowatt-hour of electricity is much cheaper than there. But because someone has to come, take concessions, first we have to fix the infrastructure, reorganize these public enterprises, to dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of workers to leave without a job, to set the price of electricity that will suit him, and then to make a man available, for a gift. Don't nod to the fact that that's not the case, because in the public company Kopovi - Kostolac, which is already being transformed, many production plants are closed, some are reorganized, some are in the privatisation process; there is a systematization of jobs, people are constantly threatened by quitting. It's a real-life situation. When you get out of this assembly, out of this room, it's waiting for you on the street, reducing the number of employees, dropping the standard of living. The question arises – what about that current that has been stolen over the past few years, has anyone answered for it, has anyone answered why the imported electricity from Bulgaria was imported, and the beautiful dams on Baja's Garden have been dropping a battery. Will someone be responsible for that? Based on the wrong estimates. Who's being replaced for misjudgements? How is it that 60-70 dollars a ton is sold, and then that same one imports 120-130, and he didn't leave the country. It was there at the same time and when it was sold and when it was bought, so the minister tells us – you know, there are summer supplies, there are winter supplies, we can't deposit that much. He didn't move it from the tanker. Who bought that mule? E.P.S. again. And twice the price. From who? From Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Since these gentlemen profited over 400m euros, we now do not have enough money to train the electricity industry, to arrange power plants, high voltage and low voltage networks, and not to mention that these two have already surrounded the country with power lines that they bought from 400 or 500m euros. So we can't even import power without them anymore, we can't export it without them. And then we question who will be the beneficiary of the concession. It's the two of them again. With what money? With those money they stole from Serbian citizens. You just keep your mouth shut. Bogoljub Karic was good for you in 2004, he was good for you because he should have prevented Tomislav Nikolic from becoming president of the Republic of Serbia. When he began to stick his finger in your eye and when he joined up with Boris Tadic and those unfortunate Gilas, then you started all possible actions and actions to blame him and to get everything he acquired in an illegal way back. So the state can exist whenever you want, but the problem is that you are looking at the state in a selective way and only doing what suits you, and not what makes you elected by the citizens of Serbia, in the end and such, half-breeding. You make such decisions and laws - incomplete, imprecise, written for a group of people. So, by accepting one of these laws, we're going to assign citizens of Serbia to some 13-14 million special draw rights, to reconstruct something, to increase the price of electricity, to reduce living standards, to cause inflation, and ten or 12 people to be rich in the burden of the rest of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25597	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Vitomir Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this bill and asked for its erasure. The insistent insistence of the SRS MPs on erasing all members clearly shows our attitude towards this bill. We find raising one of these credits to be pointless, given the current power purchases. It should not be mentioned that there is a privatisation of the EPS in this government's programme, so the question arises – for whom Serbia is in debt to new loans and who should be rich with an enormously high electricity price.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25599	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25600	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 3. The bill is another attempt to express our principled position that the SRS is against due to excessive and often unwarranted borrowing. In the draft text of the law, the end-user of the loan is EPS, i.e. the Public Enterprise EPS and the Public Enterprise of the Serbia Power Network. Noting that our economy almost does not spend electricity, relative to a small capacity use, because it is a very low capacity utilisation rate relative to a period of ten years ago and over, that there is a large amount of electricity that can be implemented, on this basis earn money and invest in the development of the EPS, whether it is a public company for electricity production or a public electricity company, so we believe that it is unnecessary additional borrowing and taking credit that will be difficult to repay later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25601	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25602	Although in my copy of the Bill of Law, there is only constitutional basis and reason, there may be some mistake in the press, there is no obligation to follow the bill... Of course, we oppose this concept that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading the policy and economy of this country. I was able to prove to you, on the occasion of the amendment to one of the previous laws, that it is possible for the Republic of Serbia Roads Directorate to transfer its obligation on the basis of a 72m-euro loan to another person and that is why it is an alternative in that member. It is the exact same fate, and when it comes to giving counter-guarantee to the International Development Association, as regards our electricity industry, it concerns a large loan, which is taken by the EPS and the Power Network of Serbia. Article 4 states that they should return those funds, i.e. those funds will be returned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How? The effects of the electricity price policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you that this same International Development Association in 2001 conditioned the Republic of Serbia and at the time the SRJ that if it wants to enter some more permanent credit relations, it must increase the price of drugs, electricity, it must reform the pension-inhabitation system, especially pension coordination, it must sell 400 of the best enterprises in the Republic of Serbia and so on. There is probably a condition under this agreement that is not based solely on what we usually have the opportunity to hear in public – co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You know for a fact that this government in the stained veins is watching as well as privatizing the electricity industry. Since this was not possible in the first attempt to pass, then there was the dispersal of the EPS as a single system to a number of smaller systems, to allow some privates to use capacities, to import, export electricity, transport across our territory, to complete their private affairs. The area of energy is of strategic interest and it is contained in many, I must say -- the dangerous, plans of a large number of these organizations and international associations. And if one country is holding on to energy addiction, you know that the policy of the country is not even independent, but conditioned to everything. The whole point of this concept of borrowing is precisely this: not to create capacity and to make Serbia a significant exporter of electricity, not even to end some things to ensure the stability of our system, but to go on over-indebted to make our EPS easier to fall into the hands of someone who has long shown a great interest in our energy system. That's the whole point of this concept. With us, electricity is expensive, for our opportunities, it has to be said; it is expensive if it is in terms of receiving citizens and personal consumption of citizens. In such conditions, the government is always able to try to trick someone and prove that investments in EPS are necessary. They are probably needed in one part, but here we have some experience with the government of the Republic of Serbia, and with the government of Zoran Djindjic, through Zivkovic, to this day. These governments are implementing a policy that has been drawn out of this country and aimed at over-indebting the country, so that the country is not able to properly service its obligations on international loans, and then this is becoming much cheaper. The almost identical concept is, you have seen for yourself, with the Road Directorate, an alternative has been made to return – or, as it is said, if the Road Directorate does not pay, to deny the proper appraisal or to deny the use of budget funds, or otherwise to collect claims from the Republic on the basis of the given and paid counter-guarantee. The exact same situation is with the power grid and the EPS. These are public enterprises, state-owned enterprises, which work with state-owned assets, the Republic appears here as pro form that gives counterguarantee. On the day we are informed that one of these companies, even in part, has entered privatisation, make sure that these funds are included. Because, through these loans and these international associations, they finance some of their own. Obviously, the earlier concept was that at each borrowing, 35% goes abroad again in the name of consulting and other services, like, there's no sense in us that could design, contract and perform, so you need consultants from abroad. Since that's one five years maximum abuse in each of these credit arrangements, it's now going to another stage. It is now formally-legal to a public enterprise, the state provides guarantees and counter-guarantee, and at the right time comes the real one. This real funder, practically abroad, just doesn't finance it in Switzerland, Austria, but in Serbia. It is funded in Serbia and it becomes this strategic partner, it becomes that force, that strength that ends the job. Since we have seen through this concept of uncontrollable borrowing, that everything that comes from abroad is not purposefully spent, that all these laws protect only the interests of lenders and creditors from abroad, because we have seen the concept that in this way the market is given at will, you come in and out, we cannot support these concepts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason why it is a matter of months or years when it is necessary for the Serbian Radical Party to exercise power. Then she shouldn't be in a position to act like a dossal authority and say, "We don't admit anything that happened before us." We simply want to prevent an increase in the obligations of the SRS when it comes to power. So I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day, because be sure, if you vote this law, that after a few years this issue will be reopened and that we will repeat these same words again, but with the indication that we have informed you in time of what will happen and that you have entered into an arrangement that will cause damage to the state. It's just a story that something's gonna be reconstructed, something's gonna work out. It's just a story. Evidence that the ordinary story is found in the fact that in 2001 a significant part of the funds from abroad came also as a donation, as a help to our electricity industry to implement reconstruction, rebuild certain capacities and prepare for a new season. When those jobs were over, we got into a situation where we didn't have electricity. I'm just reminding you that there are several out-of-state leaders of this group in all the energy-related jobs. Now you understand why the report of the Survey Committee, which concerns Elektroprivreda and NIS, the Survey Committee that worked in this hall for three months, took statements from actors of all possible affairs, started by Goran Novakovic, through Hamovic, Lazarevic, Kori Udovici, Djelic, etc.... By voting for this law, you amnesty these people for what they did and what they intend to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25603	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25604	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, these 15 proposals from the law on counterguarantees, us SRS MPs, as well as Serbian citizens, are very concerned, as is this bill on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Association for the Development of the Component of Serbia-Montenegro, the project Serbia. You see how confusing this looks, but from the reasoning of this law and the law itself, it's a little bit clearer what this is about, in the name of whom this responsibility is taken. However, we are concerned about one more thing. You hurried before the May referendum in Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia gave counter-guarantee to Serbia-Montenegro's mandate. Do you assume that in Serbia's Montenegro, during a statement in the May 21st referendum, most citizens will plead for Montenegro's exit from the Serbia-Montenegro community. We Serbian radicals think that the Separatist leadership project in Montenegro will certainly not work, because there are still enough citizens in Montenegro to narrow it down to a referendum. One more thing worries, i.e. we can only assume, what Mr Krasic said in his explanation of the amendments to Article 4 of this law, the price of electricity in Serbia, given the standard of Serbian citizens, is very high, although the environment is somewhat lower. It says here that the beneficiary of these funds is the Republic of Serbia and the direct user of EPS and ESM. During the last collection of electricity on May 1st, otherwise electricity has accumulated 10 times compared to 2000, you have determined the largest collection for those electricity consumers who otherwise consume the least, up to 350 kilowatt hours. This collection was 15%, while for the blue tariff zone, where consumption of 350 to 1,600 kilowatt hours was 9.8%, and for those consumers who spent more than 1,600 kilowatt hours there was no collection. It is also interesting that there was no collection for economic operators. The minimum number of citizens will be in the red zone, meaning those consumers who will spend more than 1,600 kilowatt hours, since the heating season has passed and most citizens who have spent more than 1,600 kilowatt hours in the previous period will now enter the second, or blue zone, where the consumption is 350 to 1,600 kilowatts and they will be burdened. And the majority of consumers are safe in that first zone - up to 350 kilowatts. There was a raise of up to 15 percent. In the economy, you didn't go with an increase in electricity prices. I don't think Serbia's economy could withstand that burden and that there's been an accumulation, but you're not planning any more serious growth in economic production. So there won't be an increase in electricity consumption, and that's why you can't even settle down, or cover some costs. What should we think about, which way was the EPS supposed to go? It was supposed to go in the direction of reducing the loss on the power grid. The loss on the power grid in Serbia is now up to 16%, and in the environment, otherwise it would normally be up to 8%. Imagine that you have managed to realize this 100 percent savings, i.e. to reduce the loss on the power grid. Certainly, the collection of electricity wouldn't have to come, and thus the citizens of Serbia could count on something more favourable, although it is very difficult to deal with. The fact that the finance minister, who is otherwise an authorised promoter, on behalf of the government, is not here, I assume he went to Bor, too. This time, the entire government, with all ministers together with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, will have to stay in Bor for a month, in order to get their joint candidate, besides SRS candidate Mr Branislav Rankic, to enter the second round at least. It's gonna be hard. Mr Krasic's explanation shows that the debt the Republic of Serbia is taking on as a direct obligor may be included in a buyer's privatisation of Elektroprivreda. The only question is whether the most serious competitors for the purchase of the Elektroprivreda in Serbia will be the two Hamovic - Lazarevic or whether it will be the tycoon Boris Tadic, the one wearing shoes of 600- 750 euros, director of the National Office Dragan Dilas. Maybe he'll show up, too, 'cause those shoes are definitely gonna be a good undertaker, so after the electrode he wants to make, maybe they'll let him live. But if that happens, when the SRS comes to power, they will certainly deal with it and with other tycoons and criminals. Probably what you're preparing for right now and coming in a small number, which I welcome, is to remove immunity from those criminals who led some of our courts; surely we'll have such sessions in the future, once the SRS has exercised power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25605	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is in Article 5 that I have explained when it comes to my amendment to Article 1. A bill of this law. However someone interprets it and looks, we basically owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to repay these loans. We're borrowing them by either increasing the electricity price or increasing the remaining fiscal fees to get these loans back. Article 5, which concerns amendments by MP Sreta Peric, states in the first position: "If, on the basis of the counter-guarantee issued, the Republic of Serbia implements the obligation instead of the EPS and the Elektro Network of Serbia, it has the right to recover the principal, the fees for the engagement of credit funds, the manipulative costs of credit and other costs incurred due to non-execution, i.e. the untimely execution of the obligation, up to the amount of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the EPS and the ESMs the billed legal interest. "This means that in one apparent way, the Republic of Serbia protects itself when it issues such counterguarantees. The question is now – whose Elektroprivreda is Serbia? Does it belong to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Whose power grids are Serbia? Do they belong to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? From whom are you forced to charge unmistakable funds? By yourself? That's what it looks like. Eventually, however, it will have to be paid by citizens of Serbia who are full of both the budget and who are paying for electricity. Now you have another problem: there are fewer and fewer citizens who can pay for electricity, because of high electricity prices, because of the rise in the unemployed, due to the decline in living standards. That's the problem. What's left? And there's going to be a few things that can work, and we're going to charge some new fiscal contributions or what little that can pay for the electricity to increase them a little bit more, and we're going to get the last dinar out of their pockets. For who? For gentlemen who have so far been at the expense of the EPS, now the Elektroprivred and the Power Network have been rich, for those who will buy concessions on these power plants, for those who will be rich, and the people will continue to be poor. That is why such counter-guarantees should not be the subject of the work of this assembly, because in any case you have ways to get the EPS, for NIS, by closing all those thieves who participated in the destruction of this system, and I primarily think of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, to close what they illegally acquired back to Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25607	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Finance Committee not to accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must really express my suspicion that most MPs who will vote, despite the warnings of the SRS, know about this counterguarantee what they vote for. I need to get you back to the first member of this counter-guarantee and tell you what we're talking about right now, because some colleagues have just entered the O.R. and then you have to wonder if you know what this keybinding means. The minister didn't explain it to us either, but I doubt that many of you, with great thought, have been thinking for hours about something, and they don't come to the exact conclusion, they know what this is all about. Do you know that it is the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit of the International Development Association (the Serbia-Montenegro component - the project for Serbia), it refers to Elektroprivreda, and that in Article 1. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to reconcile Serbia-Montenegro's 1300,000 special draw rights (SDRs) as a counterguarantee, etc. If you think it's a drag, and it's something like that, and it's not about a currency, or a dollar or a euro, you've crossed the line. First, the minister should have said and explained to the public what a special right to drag. It was easy for him to say that, because it should not be hidden from the public and that it is professionally defined in this way and termologically, without talking about millions of euros, or dinars. In fact, you don't even know what it is, because if it's addressing the IMF director's board to fill the reserves, the foreign exchange reserves in the conversion currency, and that in translation it means a special right to withdraw, then you should say, Mr. Minister, why are you addressing the IMF board, and on the other hand you're telling us that you have both excellent foreign reserves and surpluses in the budget, because this is one new responsibility. Especially because it is an EPS and it is a period during which this counter-guarantee is given and ask MPs to vote counter-guarantee for 13.900,000, I repeat again, special draw rights, and electricity has been expensive since 1 April, on average by 18.70% for households. You will say everywhere at a press conference and you and Minister Naumov and any minister from the government and MP from the ruling furniture that it is 15%. No, it's almost 20. Here's how. You are now asking citizens to charge EPS with a new loan, i.e. with a special right of withdrawal, to address the IMF board, to carry out what is necessary for the EPS, the 20% average of the purchase, and the change in the relationship between the tariff system and the tariff zone, which the citizens still don't know, because we've just received the March month bills, and when the first account for April comes in early May, even though the heat season has passed, some of them have to heat up in early April, you'll see that this is a 20% pick-up. If you make a comparison now and compare that the price for a kilowatt hour spent in the household was 5 years ago 0.9 cents per kilowatt hour, so much for those who don't know, so they say that it's much better to live today, our salaries and great pensions are now 4.6 (and that's the average) and that it's 10 cents in the red zone, which is the same and where the collection is even higher, because in this lowest, green tariff, instead of the previous 600 kilowatt hours of household spending, now people in Serbia can use the decision of Jeroslav Zivanić, president of the EPS Management Board and Director Djordjevic, with the appointing of your ministry and ministry of Mr Naumov, only 350 kilowatt-hours of energy. In this second, there is no difference between 350 and 600, but it starts immediately with 600 and 1,600, as you are already entering the red tariff. You didn't explain it to the citizens. They also have 300 dinars on each account for RTS and interest on unpaid bills, because it says so (at least that's how the Kragujevac Electroschumadija account, I know because three days ago I got the March bill), imagine that they encourage you at such a price increase, if you pay by the 20th of the month you get 5% discount, and if you don't pay, which citizens usually don't have to pay, because it's an abnormally high price, there is no such high price of electricity in Europe now, and compared to the standard of the population and individually, however you will, then your interest is 0.2% daily. It exists nowhere and there is no basis in any law and it is directly opposed and the law that is still in force, federally, on bond relations, and it has been abolished. Mr. Dinkic, tell those who are calculating interest and in the tax administration, as tax payments are now under way and solutions arrive, and tell those in public enterprises that what they are doing is against the law and that one day someone will have to go to jail. You know, it happened to me, a gentleman came to me, but he says that over 200 such small businesses in Kragujevac, that they were looking for corrections to the value added tax solution, that people who filed a complaint had come to a solution for the property tax, and then when they returned the alleged correction, that lady, that lesson was employed in the tax administration of Kragujevac – calculate the corresponding interest, that is, the interest you have to make for the period from then until then. And what model is there to apply that someone? Now, you teach as the finance minister of an average Serbian citizen not to pay electricity or not to pay taxes, which he should apply and where the interest exists. The easiest way is this, you tell people – let's approve both these 13 million and 900,000 special draw rights, i.e. to be in charge of the state for electricity, before that for Beška, then for this, for that. Then explain to the citizens on what basis they pay a tight interest. And you see this now as my parliamentary question and I ask for an answer, because I am responsible for saying that in May, during the Ministerial of Bozidar Djelic, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Government who was on call for the signing of the government's report on the basis of the amendments made, it was the amended Vuk Obradovic, because of the then-restricted affair that was created on the government of the Republic of Serbia and then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic that he was justified by the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and that in the future he would press interest to account for all the tightening interest in Serbia to comply with the econtamination rate of the National Bank at that time, Serbia or the increase of costs to a little bit. If you continue to apply yourself, and apply yourself, be sure, everywhere, and in Elektroprivreda, and the administration of income interest that is nowhere in any law, they get from you approval to do so, it's illegal, you simply rob citizens. There is no possibility for so much, because that interest when calculated in a year, for example, on 100 dinars of unpaid tax in a year if the model that you and today apply, rather than the one that was accepted in 2001 by the Serbian Radical Party, is concluded that three times the amount of interest is paid by citizens. Because you have to start from the fact that some people don't have, or that millions of people can't pay high prices in time, or electricity bills, and that they're rare, here's the statistics to ask the Electroschumady Kragujevac, for the Elektroprivreda of Serbia to see who these people are who, taught by that last line on the bill, pay up to 20 in the month to get a 5% discount. Well, they're under 5% in Serbia, because people don't. Currently, in Kragujevac, the average debt of residents for electricity is 22,000 dinars, and there are some people who owe over 100,000, so they come to him, so they threaten him, so he tries to postpone. And what he does - he goes to the first bank where money is given. This is why people are in debt, they come to the bank and they say – please can you grant me a loan; they say – it can be 1,000-2,000 euros. What is the payment deadline - five years. To one euro he returns at least two, 17% is his annual effective interest. These credit costs, and this, and that, and when he gets into a situation to get, when he's denied all those expenses, not 170 or 180,000 dinars, but at best 160,000, for 2,000 euros they give him so much in dinars, he goes into the waterway, he goes there, he goes there, pays all the debts and Greeks, five years pays the loans. And what about next year? Nothing. Once again, new interest rates arrive, rich countries, or the Ministry charges such interest, the people are getting more and more injured and the banks are only getting, because next year, if they haven't met that 30% bonus... Now they've increased, so they say you can up to 50% of your salary to be in debt. Those poor people go, and next year they have to do the same thing again. They don't think about anything else. It's our average life in Serbia. Here I am now, and you, Mr. Mihailovic, are also the chairman of you, Minister, asking you to answer, and I want a written answer to the asked parliamentary question – which model is the tightened interest of the Ministry of Finance and the Administration of Revenue applied as public enterprises in Serbia and companies whose founders of the municipality and cities are, so what is allowed by you and what is the daily pressure interest for unpaid accounts? I want you to answer me, that I have it in writing from you so that I can tell it to the citizens and anyone who comes to ask me and complains about the enormous tight interest they receive from the untimely paid bills. They don't have people to pay from, they manage, but at least they know who's yelling at them for so much interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25609	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR RURALITY (PROGRAMME OF THE CONSOLIDATION OF PAYMENT AND REFORME OF THE PENSION ADMINISTRY IN SERBIA) (SERBIA) (sequences) You have received amendments submitted by National MPs Dragoljub Stamenković, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Antić, Miljko Čevrović and Milan Škrbić on the proposal of the law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25610	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we have for the first time a counter-guarantee that can't be called developmental. So it's not about the power grid or the power plant of Serbia, there's no roads, there's no factories, there's nothing. It is said that these funds should complete a project to consolidate the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia. So, this government plans to assign citizens of the Republic of Serbia to 16,600,000, yet we do not know what, according to special rights to pull, to consolidate the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia. Now, I remember various legal proposals since October 5th, when the funds are disabled pension and social. I remember the first Labour Act that was passed after October 5th, however, in a highly suspicious way, by the MPs voting remotely from Thessaloniki, when then the Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, and current Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, said it was a good law and no matter how it was brought in, whether MPs voted in the Serbian or Thessaloniki Assembly, it is important that it is a reform law that was voted. The law even said that if the employer does not settle his obligations to the pension and disability fund, whether the worker pays the salary or not, his company, the facility, the subject of his activity, will be closed for 30 days or more. I ask the question is this consolidation of pension administration reform in Serbia? Are we going to get another such crazy legal proposal, which someone will write and which Serbian citizens will pay 16.600,000 special rights to draw? Does this consolidation of the pension administration in Serbia mean that they will acquire some new equipment, technique, create a unique database? We already have it all, it was before October 5th, there is now. What, then, is the goal of such a reform? Just to be in charge of Serbia's citizens. Why, you don't know. Who will end up spending this money? It's called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but who's really going to get it, you don't know it. Whether it will be some kind of consulting firm, whether it will be the National Office, gentlemen need expensive shoes, why not a little more of the citizens of Serbia, need some more who have maintained the old DOS government, such as Banet Ivkovic, to receive salaries, etc. In certain ways, we have to provide them with the funds for all of their thieving and machinations they've had. Does reform of the pension administration in Serbia mean firing workers? Will it ever come to the layoff of workers that this money is used to pay off severances? I'm sure it won't, because even where you promise severances, you're having a hard time paying them off, and the easiest thing to do is to declare bankruptcy or privatize some company without any social program. Furthermore, the question arises why reform the pension administration in Serbia when the programme and the government's stance that the work should be done by private pension insurance. Do you take them as competition now or not? How do you want to make this charge more effective? A more efficient charge can only be made if the economy starts working, if the economic operators have jobs, if they have money. Then you will also fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the funds of the Republic of Serbia, only in this way. Otherwise, with such a reform, you will not achieve anything else, only more debt to the citizens, to create more unemployed people, and all because of, allegedly, some programs and projects that who knows who and who knows what they are serving, certainly not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25611	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25612	These bill proposals are really valuable because they allow the SRS to inform the public about what and how the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. To inform you, if it is not clearer and clearer every day, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have an economic policy. It has essentially no policy, it is all parched towards the ministries and according to the interests of some parties, not so many parties, but individuals who may abuse those parties. With this amendment, where we are seeking to delete this member, we would like to draw the public's attention to a phenomenon from 2001 to today: as the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia abroad increases, foreign exchange reserves are also increasing at the National Bank of Serbia. Since that is the case, only one possible conclusion is drawn, which is that the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia are in the function of serving loans and debts of the Republic of Serbia, especially those of debts and loans formed as debts and taking loans from 2001 to today. The borrowing is uncontrollable, it is carried out at all costs, and what will be called a loan, what will be called an agreement and with whom it will be concluded, are absolutely irrelevant issues. Mr. Arsic tried, on the subject of an amendment to article 1, to explain that a project to consolidate the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia could essentially mean everything. Whether this applies only to the pension-inhabitation service, whether it applies to their technical equipment, whether it relates to the collection of funds that would fill holes in pension funds or to something else, third, fifth or twentieth, this is not seen in the draft law. If anyone intends to improve the efficiency of the collection of contributions, then let those in charge of the job start with the payment of contributions. Let us remember that it has been threatened by those companies that do not pay contributions to come under the law, not only in terms of criminal liability, but also in disabling further work, because what kind of work it is if the company cannot properly service its obligations to the state. Then another category appeared, such as those of B92, where inspection and control is observed that some you see very often on television or you hear on their radio are not at all in a working relationship, that no contributions are paid for them, and when it comes under the pressure of the law, Veran Matic no longer touches the G17 plus, and the issue of unpaid iron contributions is being raised, some others and B92 change their editorial concept, no longer touches the G17 plus, and the question of unpaid iron contributions is being asked in another way. If there is a need to increase the efficiency of the collection of contributions in terms of the existence of a reserve fund to lend firms to that part, then it would likely be such a loan and arrangement with a foreign partner with another name. But I have to warn you of one more thing -- that last year, before last year, especially in 2003, when the Pension-Employment Act was passed, it was said that the harmonisation of pensions to undergo changes, that it would not follow the monthly growth of life or cost to a little bit, but that in one period it would be aligned to an average rate, 50% of one factor, 50% of the other factor, and then it was three months, so the recent changes were reduced to six months, twice a year. You remember that at the end of last year, when the temperature was raised in the Republic of Serbia whether to get a positive opinion, and it was up to the positive opinion that 700 million would be written off, it was also information that the IMF, the World Bank and these creditors from abroad are demanding from the government of the Republic of Serbia that as little or as possible intervene with budget funds for the resolution of missing funds in the PIO funds. Let me remind you. In this way, I want to point out that the much bigger problem in PIO is the lack of funds, and that's the chronic lack, based on the contribution, of tightening the state that as a guarantee pensions can't intervene, but that they have to unfold in various ways. This concludes that the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be in place as much as possible for citizens and market protection, so that their work and results and services on the market can obtain their monetary satisfaction, not for our market to be left to foreign goods and services and to suppress domestic production and domestic work. There is a formula to increase the payment of contributions and stabilise PIO funds. If someone believes that with 16.6 million special draw rights, which should be around 24m euros each day, if it is taken to change the value of the individual special right to be drawn by this fund, then we rightly ask the question – is it necessary to change the system, for some new concept of payment of contributions, for the introduction of a record, to settle the administration that needs to take care of the collection of contributions, so much funding is needed. We are coming to the field that the term here is "a project for the consolidation of the collection and reform of the pension administration in Serbia" is made up. If the administration needs to deal with this kind of money, then we don't need that kind of administration. We have in this country 29 special para-state institutions that are unnecessary and we have nine double institutions in Serbia, within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. So, not that variant that exists on the federal level and that it exists on the republican level, no, but only on the republican level do we have nine parallel institutions. Someone multiplied those institutions. Of course, someone has come up with a concept that their quest for European integration and a prone attitude, as they say, is manifesting such agreements on borrowing, guarantees and counterguarantees, apparently something is happening. It happens that the state owes a lot more, that foreign exchange reserves grow much more, that some new jobs are not opened, and that people are still losing their jobs, that privatisation is problematic, that we still have a hole in the PIO in terms of contributions, and now someone is thinking that they're in charge of these funds they get from abroad, they would organize their service and create a new system of payment for contributions. Who can you convince? Perhaps at the end of the operation, you will be able to draw the line and add up and say, direct investments and find a hundred million euros, and you will say that income is even written off, and what was unpaid is written off. You will likely reach some number of several billion dollars, to confirm that 6.5 billion were really at the borders of the Republic of Serbia on October 5th, but did not immediately enter the Republic of Serbia as living money or investment, or something that could be felt immediately, but entered in various ways, preserved by Jelasic, that, if this government went away, it would be returned abroad, because the attempt to establish DOS authorities was obviously unsuccessful on the long term. The results of this kind of economic policy will only be minuses. Those citizens who think that when the ministers come out here and start bidding and talking about some amounts of funds that came from abroad... I'm just asking a question -- if so much money came from abroad, what do you see at least one benefit, benefit, benefit, discount or something better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the economy, for institutions? With all this money, the military is being destroyed, that we don't talk about the police, that we don't talk about the economy, the energy, the roads, not talk about a lot of things. It's probably this rain, too, that's a signal that the sky is heavy by the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25613	Thank you. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25614	Dear People's MPs, the minister is gone, and I wanted to ask him a question, as he said by explaining these 10 counter-guarantee laws and these two agreements, especially counter-guarantee, that of these 10 only three counter-guarantees or laws withdraw new funds, and that seven already issued guarantees from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly have already been used, whether this is the case with these funds or this counter-guarantee, watching the situation as it is under other counter-guarantees. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed that all members be deleted for the provisions of this law from Articles 1 to 5. It is surprising that the Legislative Committee has proposed that amendments of the SRS be rejected on the proposal for this law. The Committee does not have the right to engage in whether the amendment is established or not, but whether it is legally valid or not. Anything is possible in this National Assembly, including the Legislative Committee. When it comes to the 16m and 600,000 special draw-back rights counter-guarantee, the minister did not explain what the special draw-back rights mean, but said, when it comes to the counter-guarantee for the payment consolidation and reform project of PIO in Serbia, it is about $20m. Once again, I have to bring the situation to the King, when the building of the PIO Fund has been adapted to the adaptation of 500 m2 and the addition of 300 m2 spent 2.5m euros. In addition to this situation we have in recent years, on today, to owe more than 20 pensions to farmers, to continue to pass debt towards pensioners of the PIO Fund, a 20m-euro loan is taken for some so-called. a project reform of the pension administration. It seems that this people and this state should continue to be in debt, although the minister, explaining the 2004 budget, especially for 2005, and most of the National Assembly accepted all this, said a surplus in the budget would be achieved. Why borrowing if we have a surplus in the budget? And when are they going to place accounts in front of Serbian citizens, with huge foreign exchange reserves of seven billion euros, where are these reserves, where are they deposited and on what basis, at which banks and in which country are they located? The third question I wanted to ask Minister Dinkic, the finance minister, since he has many times, explaining and justifying the bankruptcy of four major banks, said a much better banking system was created in Serbia, as he often spoke - the best banking system in Southeast Europe - which of these banks, which Labus, Dinkic and others brought in, gave one guarantee when it comes to credit in Serbia? It is clearly stated here in this bill that the beneficiary of this loan is the Republic of Serbia, that it is also a debtor and that the funds for the payment of the loan (and this is Article 4 for which I have proposed to delete) will be provided by the users, meaning from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will pay $20m for the pension administration reform project, and they will not know at all what the project means, what it will be used for, nor will it ever be used for these 20m dollars, as well as for many other loans used by the Ministry of Capital Investments and other ministries in the previous year, and in 2004, without ever having submitted a report on what those funds were spent on. That's why we have a situation where the Minister of Capital Investments is now not concerned about the dramatic situation when it comes to floods, from hour to hour, not to say from minute to minute that the situation is getting worse, because he's now busy as an escalator, in today's press I see him, taking pictures with Severin. As a man, I am not against estrada, but there is no place for the Minister of Capital Investments, in this dramatic situation throughout Vojvodina, throughout Serbia, when it is likely that these slides will begin again. No one from the government mentions what is coming now, what should be done already in Serbia, that it is the time of the sowing; neither the Minister of Agriculture, nor the Deputy Prime Minister, nor the Prime Minister, because it is most important for them to remain in power and to extend, if they can, another day, and for them it would be better for some month. Serbian citizens will not suffer this situation, because what happens to corruption, crime, robbery, these tragic events and tragedies of a worker from Gornji Milanovac, and I mentioned the tragedy of a Kraljevnica worker, I deeply cooperate with the families of those workers, with what happened in Jagodina, in a brewery; this is the government of deafness, deaf is the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, deaf is the Agency for Privatisation, deaf is the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the MUP, simply... I am not talking about elections, there will be elections, and it will be elections soon, and don't call for elections in the King, come now among the citizens of the Kingdom, and Minister Ilic, and I will tell him because of the President of the Kingdom Municipality, to answer his mobile phone, because there are no answers for many promises made by Minister Ilic in the King. I also have a written address to me, as head of the committee group and MP, that the current president of the municipality has started with the police to throw out citizens who are talking to him, because there are no answers for those citizens who are now coming and looking for what was promised by Minister Ilic. I'll finish. It is on the conscience of lawmakers who support this government; if they vote and accept this counter-guarantee law as well as additionally in charge of $20m of Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens will have to repay this loan. Neither this government nor Minister Dinkic nor Labus will return it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25615	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please be heard, please allow MPs who are addressing the amendments, please for a little order. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, I ask if Mr Mladjan Dinkic's representative wishes to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in the CARIN (single) you have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the Republic of Rade, Milorad Buha and Natasa Jovanovic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25616	Ladies and gentlemen, Krasic says I should speak to the minister, and I don't see the Minister here, Zorana Krasic, making a little noise from these MPs who come only to vote, but now they're nervous that we're moving on with our work. Okay, maybe that's why I'm going to convince them, when they're in this number, to vote for these amendments and not to accept the government's proposal, a bill to ratify an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters. Of course, I'll say why we're proposing this. I, by amendment to Article 1, and by other fellow amendments to the other members, have asked that these members be deleted, as is common by MPs, the SRS parliamentary group when we want to express our absolutely negative attitude towards a government proposal and then express it through amendments by asking that individual members of the bill be deleted. Article 1 The bill on ratification of the agreement between Serbia and Croatia reads: "The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters, signed in Zagreb on 15 December 2005, is ratified in the original Serbian and Croatian languages. "Now we have a series of interesting things here. I wrote in the light of this amendment that it is necessary to vote on my amendment to delete Article 1 and to delete the other members, because the Republic of Croatia only declaredly guarantees the rights of Serbs who have escaped during the war and who are trying to return to their hearths. We also wrote that it is immoral and hypocritical by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and most importantly, contrary to the provisions of international public law, that any agreement is concluded with the state that is the occupation of Republika Srpska. I know that RSK is mostly of no interest to you, we Serbian radicals and how interested it is. We are convinced that RSK occupation, among other things, will be an obstacle to the Ustasha Republic of Croatia to join the EU. That is why we would never think to conclude any agreements with the Ustasha Croatia before the RSK is released. But we also know the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority in this House, and that is why we could not expect anything, but exactly what you have proposed. This agreement is characteristic, even if you don't think about how Serbian radicals think, because I know it's pretty much impossible for you, but there are other very interesting reasons why this agreement can't be signed. First, we don't know why anyone signed the agreement on December 15, 2005. How did someone dare sign an agreement and ask for a subsequent ratification of such an agreement? I guess someone should have been given the authority to sign such an agreement. I'm trying to find here, I know that colleague Krasic spoke that name last time, but I can't find it, and it's an entirely anonymous person, probably an official, sent on an official trip to Zagreb and was forced to sign an agreement like this. The government of the Republic of Serbia requested, on March 23rd, that this proposal be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure and say: "The reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure are contained in the fact that the recent application of the law would firstly warn and suppress the violation of customs regulations and smuggling and allow the exchange of experiences in the work of the customs authorities of the two countries." On the contrary, in Article 8 of this Agreement, you are literally in favour of crime, or you are legalising the state of Serbia as a drug dealer, because in the position of Article 8 of this Agreement, you say: "Unlawful shipments whose shipments are controlled may, with the consent of the competent authorities, be stopped or can be allowed to continue the movement without the goods being left intact or the goods listed in Article 1 of this Article being removed or replaced in full or in part." Anyone who reads this and anyone who's heard what I've read is more than clear to this agreement that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants Serbia to make a drug dealer, because it says – allows illegal shipments to flow. You know what they are and what illegal shipments they are. It's just amazing, ladies and gentlemen, that someone from the government has dared to offer us such an agreement. If it's from Mladjan Dinkic, it's too much. However, when we spoke in the principle debate, Dinkic here said he didn't understand what the agreement was, which means Article 8(2), so he was trying to explain something here, saying he asked him to explain it. Whoever's got to explain what's at stake, I don't think that's clear to anyone anymore. What stands at the end of this government proposal, to discuss this bill by emergency procedure? He says, "It will also enable the adoption of this law to take measures to achieve co-operation in the study, development and implementation of new customs procedures, personnel training, exchange of experts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia." So this is the highlight of the insolence by the government of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of cooperation, what kind of exchange of government gentlemen's experts are talking about here, and you're probably willing to accept that? What kind of experts do you think you exchange with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when Croatia does not allow citizens, mostly now living in Serbia, to use their property, to return to the territory of RSK, not allow anyone who eventually returns to live there. No Serb can be hired there, for your information. There are a lot of colleagues here who have, like me, a lot of relatives, friends, godfathers, etc., who are from these parts. I will be very surprised if they vote for such a hypocritical and rude proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You'll exchange experts with Croatia? What experts, the ones who will deal drugs between Serbia and Croatia together at customs? That's the kind you might be able to exchange. Has the government made sure that any citizen who returns to the Republic of Croatia is able to do any work where he returns? Does anyone in RSK, now occupied by Ustasha Croatia, guarantee security when they return there? Do you read the papers, what happens every day? Of course, many things are not published in the paper. People who are trying to return there, and those who cannot live in Serbia, who can't live here either, unfortunately, to work, have no settled housing issue, go back there, and in semi-destructed and burned houses, mostly older people, I guess they want to at least die on their hearth, and there scare them, there threaten them at night, they can't go out there when it gets dark. In the Serb return villages, there is still no electricity, although before the war, there was, but everything was torn down, burned down, no stores, no hospitals. Then they make money on them, they go some moving shops in the villages, and so do the infirmarys with one nurse, some nurse. Ladies and gentlemen, it's terrible what happens to Serbs who are trying to return to RSK. Despite all these facts, I see here many colleagues who will vote for this law, who look at me with a lot of confidence in what I'm saying, because they know from personal experiences that I'm telling the truth. Do you know who the RSK is fixing houses for? People like that of Spo's Minister Vukcevic. He is from the White Manastir; his house is not destroyed, but from that house of his, which was not touched during the war, there is now a villa. This was done to him by his Ustasha Croatia; and the houses beside him, the ordinary people, which were destroyed, which were burned, were not fixed even to this day. People come with photos of the minister's house and their houses next to his house. That, my dear colleagues, is the true state of relations with the Republic of Croatia. And you pretend to be deaf and blind to these facts, ratify, send your officers to sign the agreements, then let us ratify them here, to confirm something that has occurred to someone. In doing so, you're concluding incredibly harmful agreements. It's amazing, I'm not going to talk about Article 8, because I'm guessing that one of my colleagues will have an amendment, so they're going to talk about it in particular, but I really need to point out that you're going to use this agreement to tell them that you're going to have illegal shipments controlled with the consent of the authorities to stop or allow them to move on. Who are these people who will be drug dealers on behalf of the Serbian state? I asked Mladjan Dinkic last time if he might be that authorized drug dealer. That's all he's missing in his biography, all the other conditions you know for what he's already met for. Why doesn't the government accept, among other things, the amendment I've submitted? It says – also given that the EU accession process implies co-operation in all areas of national importance and good neighbourly relations with countries in the region. That's another reason to pass this law. So, you, ladies and gentlemen, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, make fun of the citizens of Serbia. You will, therefore, do everything for EU entry, make Serbia a drug dealer, forgive Croatia's occupation of the Republika Srpska Krajina, for good neighbourly relations, as happened in Čačka the night before last when Velja Ilic came out to greet Severina, a significant figure appeared in Cačka, and then a very rude leader says – will you kiss Serbian three times or Croatian twice? For God's sake, Vela only kissed Severin twice, I guess it shows that we can all be trampled for good neighbourly relations with Ustasha Croatia and with Severina.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25617	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) First notice: 30th session of the European Integration Committee will be held from 13 hours and 15 minutes in the fourth floor hall. At the same time, we have received a proposal to put on the agenda for the emergency procedure during the session, in accordance with Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Management Board of the National Assembly shall, on the basis of Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to put the agenda on the agenda of this session -- a proposal to approve the detention of Goran Kljajevic, the president of the Trade Court in Belgrade and Delinka Djurdjevic, the judge -- the president of the Banking Council in Belgrade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 155, it did not vote seven out of 162 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – SUPPOSED DECISION ON APPROVAL OF THE DELINKI ĐURĐEVIĆ, THE PRESIDENT OF THE TRADE CLIJEVIĆ, THE PRESIDENT OF THE TRADE COURT IN BELGRAD For this point of the agenda, you have received proposals on the approval of the detention of Goran Kljajevic, the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade and Delinka Djurdjevic, the judge - the President of the Bank of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, who submitted the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of this group. Since the overall time of the debate is known, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not done so, and they wish, to file a statement for a word, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the representative of Proposer Petar Cvetkovic, vice president of the Administrative Board, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that there are no statements on the lists of MPs, and ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have carried out a single search on the motions for decisions, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 13 April 2006 as the voting day. We'll approach the vote immediately, 13 o'clock and 7 minutes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. Two decisions are: 1. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kljajevic, president of the Trade Court in Belgrade. For 162, four of the 166 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kljajevic, president of the Trade Court in Belgrade. 2. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Delinka Djurdjevic, the judge -- the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. For 161, four of the 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Delinka Djurdjevic, the judge -- the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. Since we have completed our decision on this item of the agenda, we continue according to the established agenda (12th point). We will wait a minute for MPs who do not participate in the debate on existing points of the agenda to be at peace, and hopefully quickly and efficiently, to allow MPs who participate in the debate (and this will be Mr Krasic, as far as I can see, first) to address the MPs. I've seen slower evacuations during the fires. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word was asked for by First People's MP Bora Kutic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about this subject is very difficult, because for those of us who come from those places, there is always the possibility that emotions can overcome reason. So please, if you happen to have some sense in my address, I don't think you'll mind me. We are aware and familiar with the fact that the Republic of Croatia, in the period from 1991 to 1997 from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, later parts of Republika Srpska, expelled more than 500,000 Serbs, that more than 15,000 Serbs were wounded during that period, and more than 7,000 Serbs were killed. This is what I say to those gentlemen, those MPs who want to vote for this law just to point out one fact – the vote for this bill is giving an alibi to Croatia for all the crimes it has done towards Serbia and the Serbian people. Today, Serbs in the Republic of Serbia have managed each other in their own way. You also know it's 29. Six. In 2001, a signed conflict agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has disobeyed all points of the conflict agreement. The question arises, in line with this, how much will the Republic of Croatia honour this bill on ratification of the agreement. I further question how much the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled its obligations under the conflict agreement, what about the occupied territories of Republika Srpska. You must know that Republika Srpska was a legal factor. Republika Srpska had all the prerogatives of a state, so it had territory, it had people, it had judicial, legislative and executive power. These are the basic elements of one country and the basic elements of statehood. So, we were a state, we were holding negotiations with representatives of the international community, specifically UNPROFOR. One of them was me, too, negotiating with people from the European Community, from the world community. You know we've been working under the laws of Republika Srpska and these laws have been applied. The world community has given a guarantee to the Serbian people that they will be protected in those areas. In actions "Blash" and "Storm" Croatia broke the Vens - Owen plan and drove the Serbs out of the area. Not to be too long, I think indeed whoever votes for this bill will do evil to the Serbian people who came from those places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25619	Thank you, Mr. Box. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25620	I will make sure that I do not repeat what I said in the principle debate about this bill, and given my great respect for the man who submitted this amendment to the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, our MP to the Serbian Radical, Mr Buha, and appreciateing his activities as president of the government in refugee before the international community, scientific, professional and other competent circles, and with the goal of only promoting the truth of what the Republika Srpska Krajina is and what fate has hit Serbs from Republika Srpska and all Serbs outside Serbia since 1990 until today. I must remind you that just before this secession started, armed, encouraged by the Vatican, CIA and Germany, before this brutal breaking of the SFRY started, in today's territory of the Republic of Croatia, as they like to say, there were just over 12% of Serbs. Today there are slightly more than 2% and less than 3% of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, an independent state in Croatia. In 1991, there was a third genocide against Serbs in an independent state of Croatia and, of course, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, expressing their position... We believe that we are expressing the position of that patriotic, patriotic and that part of the Serbian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must re-emerge, who have recognised the Ustasha movement, the awakening of the Constitution in the 1990s in the Republic of Croatia. I hope I represent their interests and we must raise our voice when it comes to such an agreement that regulates certain customs issues that should solve the problem of drug trafficking. What really affects the applicant of the amendment and the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is the argument the government wrote on its stand not to accept this amendment. There's talk of fostering good neighbourly relations. The SRS knows well that the European Union, America, Germany is also pushing this government, as well as the previous government in which the SRS participated, that something ends here, but it doesn't matter in what form. This is the best contained on the UN tribunal's website in the section "The Goals of The Hague Tribunal". One of the goals, however, was given as the third indent in that paragraph, is to prevent the revision of everything that happened on the territory of the former SFRY. This means that it should prevent the truth, promote a lie; it should be promoted that it is allegedly a reflection of human rights, a struggle for democracy, a right to self-determination whether to shoot JNA recruits who went without a weapon, by order of the SFRJ presidency, to establish a elemental order, or even a demonstration of force without weapons, because carrying a gun without ammunition is the same as walking with your hands in your pockets. These children of ours were clay pigeons for Ustashas and clerofashists from Slovenia. It was supposed to break up the former SFRY, and it had to be forgotten that the destruction was done. Here's an agreement that can really cause different feelings in public. The average observer of this session can conclude – what these radicals are complaining about, is a simple agreement that prevents illegal drug trafficking. It is no ordinary agreement, because there are international customs standards between customs services of all countries that provide co-operation to combat drug trafficking, persons and other goods. There's a so-called. General regulations. They apply even between states that are in enmity. But here the EU wants to impose this co-operation, as if nothing had happened. The result of what happened is that less than 3% of Serbs now live in the territory of Croatia's independent state, that only during 1991 and the first half of 1992, about 500,000 Serbs from the territory of the Republic of Croatia had to save their lives by fleeing to Serbia. Just to remind you, people from Rijeka, Pula, Zagreb and other places, where it was not even theoretically possible to have armed conflicts or to have some dissatisfaction with Serbs. They are only expelled because they are Serbs, because they cannot fit them into those thirds that Starcevic has yet drawn as the ideology of the Croatian state. I wonder why Vojislav Kostunica did not sign this agreement as Prime Minister with Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, but planted it, as signed, I would say it was probably the director of the Serbian Customs Administration of the Republic of Serbia D. Jeremic and it was probably also someone who runs their customs. What is our interest, in addition to the general rules preventing smuggling and customs offences, to conclude an additional agreement that would give us more than that to prescribe and agree on? Are we interested in preventing those of our grandparents in Knin and the surrounding area from being drugged? They don't do drugs. Is it our goal to stop the drug mob from working freely? She was not prevented by this government, as she was not prevented by the previous one. It is known where the drug-mafia centers: Velika Trnovac, the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, Novi Pazar, Belgrade, Novi Sad. If you've shown efficiency to these judges, and for two years we've been asking you to do it, it's a good thing you remembered to finally do it, you can solve the drug issue in two days. I would remind you that in 2001, the SRJ signed an agreement and joined the negotiation process to establish a common record of customs traffic on the Balkan territory, not because of preventing drug trafficking, but that one interested in drug trafficking has insight into the overall process that is going on here. The agreement should make it possible for Croatia to fight against Royce and others. That's not true. Through the territory of Montenegro drugs and everything else goes very freely. Just to remind you, at the beginning of the debate on this agenda, it was said that this agreement was concluded by the Republic of Montenegro with Croatia. Why separately? Why isn't it the same text? To remind you, the first point of today's debate was a similar agreement with the Republic of Iran. There also representatives of Serbia and representatives of Montenegro put their signatures on the agreement with the country of Iran, so there were three signatures. When it comes to Croatia, we have two special agreements, with two different signatures. This manifests the disunity and desire of all to destroy the state community. We don't think this is a good neighborhood act. Of course, I do not wish to open any other questions, but I must remind you of "Blash" and "Storm", read the British transcripts, read the other documentation, all of this is available today, and you will see that Croatia's Franjo Tudjman, an independent state of Croatia, has invaded the UN. The security, peace, security, life and health guarantees of people in Republika Srpska were the United Nations and the Republic of Serbia. The United Nations allowed the territory under their control to be attacked and destroyed. Serbia had to keep quiet. There was this other one, an even bigger exodus. We know you're putting up with pressures, but we believe that the dignity of this people requires you to take a little care of the people as well. Control this traffic, stop it with general regulations and international standards that prevent illegal drug trafficking, but do not conclude such agreements as you do next door, because in this way you say you have forgotten everything: you forgot everything in 1991, you forgot "Blash" and "Storm", you forgot the 500,000 fates of people in Serbia and around the world. You forgot another very important thing: every Serb, refugee, if he was born or had a residence on the territory of Republika Srpska Krajina by a well-tested and accelerated procedure can receive an eviction visa and go anywhere, only to return, so that the Roman Catholic Church and the Vatican can clear the space for spreading their influence, and Serbs are a factor that cannot exist in this independent state of Croatia. Keep in mind, these acts of good neighbourly manifestations are not desirable, because many questions are still open and no matter how much The Hague advocates to prevent an audit, it cannot prevent the truth, and the truth is only on our side.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25621	Thank you, Mr. Krassic, it's a pleasure to listen to you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25622	Eight MPs of the ruling furniture are currently sitting in the hall, distinguished Mrs. Pop-Lazic, honourable SRS MPs, Serbian citizens, in a situation where a shameful document of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ahead of it. If someone did an analysis of individual exhibitions in various places, including from congregation speakers, MPs who were not as if there was a fire, but as if attacked by Ustashas chased them into this door, and they left both people and territory, not to defend themselves... Because I believe that they would not be able and if they had to help those poor old people and those Serbs who stayed to live on their centuries-old hearths under the leadership and torture and patronage of the Ustasha Croatian government, none of them would be looked after. I am saying this because it is amazing that you will vote for this document, most of all for the reasons presented by Verica Radeta in her first presentation on the amendment to Article 1, because it may have been difficult for her to say, just like Mr. Kutic, and all those people, and to Mr. Buhi, who is the president of the RSK government in exile, or refugee, that these are people who not only have survived their grandfathers and grandfathers from those premises, but fortunately survivors, which millions of Serbs are not even hundreds of thousands in the last genocide of the Ustasha government. Only that you have opened the newspaper today, you who are sitting here or those who will return in the afternoon or already, when, to vote, and have read that something that is already taking place over Serbs and over the SPC and that started in the 30s, which is the union and cataclysing of the Serbian people in Republika Srpska, that is, that is, all this is done by Ustasha Croatian rule under the patronage of his church and that is the most responsible for genocide against Serbs, and on which it is based, and will be based, one day when the process begins with the president of our party, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, his entire defence against this nebulous indictment and those points that are being placed on him. And in fact, as he said in his book, "that devil's apprentice, criminal Roman Pope John Paul II" is the cause of the Serbian people's suffering and that the Ustashas, gathered left, right, in the center, there is no difference, in all political parties and factions, however you will, have always been unanimous in one today – that Serbs have no survival in their hearths and that they do not allow Serbs to live in their houses, in their territory, in the Republika Srpska region. When last year the SRS submitted a resolution, or a memorandum on RSK, and when you received it in terms of parliamentary material, I do not believe that you read it at all, you MPs from the ruling structures. Because if you had, and if you had seen all that, and these are just parts of the horror through which, and through the Ustasha genocide, the Serbian people have gone through in the latest genocide since 1991, which lasted until those actions of Ustasha Croatian authorities "Blash" and "Storm", and if you knew something from the history of the Serbian people and what happened to us during World War II, and that today Jasenovac is the largest Serb city underground, you would then ask your heads of parliament to ask the president of the assembly and vote that day when it was on the agenda, if that resolution were to be found. But you don't think about it at all. Your daily and petty party interests are important to you and what comes to you as a warrant, as Mr Krasic said, from the EU to the good neighbouring countries, so I would like to express myself, relations, because I cannot say it "good neighbourly" or say it. Like, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I believe as much as you do, like all MPs of the SRS, you don't understand what kind of document this is. If it is said here that it is made in two copies and in the same text, I simply cannot believe it, and I do not know how something like this was found in front of the MPs of the National Assembly. I don't understand when it was "assembled in Zagreb on 15 December, in two originals, each in Serbian", imagine, "and in Croatian, where both texts are equally authentic". I don't understand when it was December 15th, I don't really understand what the original is, I don't understand what it says here. I don't understand how you could accept that it was written in Croatian, when that language doesn't exist. The Ustasha never had their tongue, they took it from the Serbs. And if you had read something, and you could, at least it wasn't expensive for you, and the capital work in our recent literature was that you read "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, you could see that he, based on the emigrations of Laza M. Kostic and knowledge that he came from various other sources, proved well and showed that the Ustashas never had their own language. How, then, can you say such words and accept that one document is in the legal traffic of the Republic of Serbia and is made in a language that does not exist and has never been proven to exist? On the other hand, without regard for certain points, from one, to the other, I must tell you that you accept this contract, and that you will be ready to vote for it, in a situation where history repeats itself, when as many as the Zagreb-Ljubljan Mitrovica Jovan Pavlovic addressed to the public, the entire world public, and above all to the SPC, accusing the Croatian Ustasha power of baptism of more than 30,000 Serbs. In a letter to the Holy Archaeological Synod of the SPC, he stated that dozens of Orthodox Serbs were baptized in several parishes of the Archaeological Belarusian subsistence and that the process is continuing. This is what we warn you about and what Dr Vojislav Seselj warned you about for so many years, and what he will prove on the day when the anti-Serb tribunal began its process. The notion of all crimes committed by the Roman Catholic Church in the Ustasha Croatian government, with the help of them, in fact, on the territory where the Serbs lived for centuries, delivered the tribunal to The Hague, to the extent that Verice, 1,800 pages. He collected more than 300, and a team for his defence, books written by various authors, even Croats originally, about what genocide was done over the Serbian people, and that in all things John Paul the Other, the Roman Pope, played a role and that this Racinger, or Benedict, continues his path and that this is happening today over the Serbian people, addressed yesterday and the Metropolitan of Zagreb-Ljubljan. For me, as someone who is not only a passive observer, but a witness of many events back 15 years over our people in RS and RS, it is incomprehensible that you approach these things like this. You did not want to raise basic issues, which is the position of Serbs and when they will return RSK, which is occupied, as Bore Kutic said, which was also internationally legally recognised and had its round territory and executive and legislative authority. The RSK parliament elected MPs there. The majority were Serbian radicals, and then the others from the Serbian parties. Today, we have a situation where individual representatives, allegedly, of the Serbian people here in the Serbian Parliament, like that unfortunate Albianic, tell us – what is wrong with them there, they have a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In the Ustasha Parliament, they have Pupovec as a representative, who must not write to Sanader or Mesic, and who also hugs and kisses with them as they do both Tadic and Vuk Draskovic and other traitors who allegedly protect the interests of our people. Then what are we talking about? What kind of customs cooperation? In order for Deputy Trade Minister Srdjan Sredkovic, whom the popular media called Hrvoje ten days ago, because he really did well in that Ustasha lobby on our market here, so people gave him and the team around him such a nickname, that as much as possible shoppers and that he made enormous money based on the monopolies that individual Ustasha companies have here using all our potentials and destroying the Serbian market... You don't care about that job, because you're going to embarrass yourself and you're going to push one button to vote for something that normal people -- whether he's ever been to any place in RSK, whether he has relatives from there, whether he's leading the origins, without talking about those who in hundreds of thousands of thousands had to come here in their mother to find refuge and hundreds of thousands of those who lost their loved ones in the Jasenian camp and other sites during World War II -- can't accept something like this. No one in their right mind can accept the question, like last night on a television show, not to advertise it – who is closer to us, Slovenians or Croats. That's amazing what you're doing. Do you think that we have washed brains and that this poor people, who today have no bread to eat and who lives so hard and who you offer Podravka soup and "vegeta" by self-serving, all of their products, doesn't know what we've been through, what economic damage we've suffered because of it, without talking about lost victims and human heads. Why didn't you ask yourself what it was like for Serbs and God forbid something like that happened, but according to this warning and the fact that in the villages of Narta, Laminac, Bosiljevo, Marinkovac, Donji Shumeđ, Dejanovac, Batinica, Lipovcani, Dragicevic, Derez and Derežana Serbs were baptized and further baptized, what fate follows them? You want to cheer them up when they come to them and knock on the door and tell them, "You will either sell your faith for dinner or you will be shot or slaughtered in the worst way possible." What are you talking about? Do you even know what's going on here, we're opening painful questions and wounds just because of one agreement that basically means nothing to you, and it means to you, it means to Happykovic to manipulate, that he can trade drugs, which is said by a colleague of Radeta, I don't know what someone's doing well here on our market, and there's absolutely no product from Serbia that goes. Do that economic analysis, as far as you're concerned about the customs agreement, what you Croats have exported for the past two years while you're in power. I have to tell you the frantic fact that in the first month of this year you are the most widely used goods, and you know what a wide-use commodity is, these are basic provisions of life, imported from Slovenia, from Croatia. With all these human casualties, with the inability to return their property, and those who are members of the Radeta family, Mr. Bora Kutic, Mr. Buha, and who knows how many hundreds of thousands or millions of Serbs should be ashamed of you the day you vote for this. Because if you don't already know, many of you, to learn what is the western line of Serbian borders and that it is Karlobag - Ogulin - Karlovac - Virovitica, and to misreplace the cities, because you don't know on the map where it is, here's to tell you that they are even behind the Karlobag of the Serbian Moravia, so beyond that line, and that these are the places marked by Serbian monasterys, churches and graves. If you don't already know that, and if you forget how the Serbian people died under Ustasha Croatian rule, then don't at least vote for this, because you're essentially not going to contribute to our economy, and you're going to embarrass yourself and you're going to embarrass your descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25623	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25624	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I wondered if I should take my word for it, but it's very difficult to sit in the hall and listen to accusations on my account that you're a traitor, that you'll vote evil for the Serbian people; someone dared even to qualify the ruling majority's MPs as pro-prostitute elements. Do I have to list now by the name and last name of my ancestors who went through the goal of Jasenovac or to list my relatives who had to flee across the Danube and Drina to save themselves, to prove that I am not a pro-prostitute element? There is absolutely no connection between what was happening in our recent past and Serbian-Croatian relations, the position of the Serbian people, the Serb ethnic community in Croatia and the agreement to prevent drug trafficking. This is one technical thing, the ratification of this agreement is important for at least two things. First, because one of the five major transit routes of narcotics to Western Europe is going through Serbia. Secondly, because Serbia and Croatia's relations during the 1990s had one special status. We can see from the press that some, while inviting other people's children to war, were trading with Croatia at the same time, and when it comes to tobacco and narcotics. I hope that the ratification of this agreement will also contribute to the discovery of all the details of what was done from 1992 to 1999, who is Serbia, and who has damaged Croatia for how much money, who participated in illegal trade, who should answer in front of domestic and who in front of some international authorities. I hope it's in everyone's interest. Relations between Serbia and Croatia, i.e. the Serbian and Croatian peoples are far from normal, far from ideal, but we have two variants: or we try to make one framework for good neighbourly or good neighbourly relations by our political pawnage, to live in peace next to each other, or to war every ten years until extinction. I don't know what's smarter, but I'd still like to live in peace, work together, try to normalize relations between the two states and between the two nations, try our political drive to encourage the Serb population to return to as large a number as possible, of course, those people who want to return and have certain rights guaranteed there. If the MPs, who have been working here, think about everything they've talked about, think about Croatians and Croatia all they think about, there are two ways to capitalise it politically: or suggest we end all relations with the Republic of Croatia, and political, diplomatic, and economic and economic, and we will discuss it here, or say that we should fight again with the Croats; there is no third.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25625	Mr. Prophetovich, this exhibit of yours has been amended, I presume? All right. The line has Ms. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25626	Mr. Prophetovich, if you are one of the eight MPs of the ruling furniture in the O.R., if you have already said that you and your members of the family actually had all this happening from the Ustasha Croatian authorities, then you better be quiet and out and you haven't come to this point of the agenda, because you yourself will be harder to go out to your relatives and those friends who know what the Ustasha have done to you. Don't replace thesis. None of the SRS MPs have called for any war with the Croats, as we have never caused any war, which tried to attribute the entire Western world to the entire Serbian people, neither in Republika Srpska, nor in Republika Srpska. I must remind you that the Serb people were attacked in villages around Knin, in Vukovar, on Plitvice Lakes, and that on the Koran island Ustasha, the Croatian government killed 36 soldiers in the back of the head with a bullet in one day, that they had no opportunity to defend themselves and that our people were the most suffering people. I also have to remind you that it is precisely an entanglement of the SRS, because we cannot achieve the right for our countrymen to live on their centuries-old hearths in the territory of Republika Srpska, the internationally recognised Western Serb republic, we have asked you many times, and I don't know if it's a newspaper for you, so you're surprised and finally you're just talking about it, that for that reason everyone's dealings with their officials is interrupted. So all we're asking is that every Serb can go to Knin, and Vukovar, live in his house and no one abuses him or abuses him. As for this agreement and co-operation, you can co-operate, so can Boris Tadic, and Kostunica... You went to the inauguration of Stjepan Mesic immediately after coming to power on October 5th. Not you personally, but that whole doss-conglomerate thing. You've shamed both the state and the people, I mean you, the government, you've been acting out the way you really don't fit the sincerest of Serbian patriots, so condescending that this agreement is also one of those reactions. If you want to get into your personal feelings and you mentioned your case, and I told you what the outcome was for the families of my esteemed colleagues and listed some of them to you, then don't, first of all, take such, incorrect exposure and substitute thesis to add salt to their untreated wound. In the end, let me tell you that a year and a few days ago, a boy in Vukovar, who was only 15 years old, was beaten to death because he was wearing a "Red Star" scarf. The Ustasha who took him into the car to take him to the nearest hospital, after the boy bled and lost consciousness and was on the verge of life, threw him out like a dog out of a car just because he was a Serb. I have to remind you that some people dared to take the Lastin bus to Istria two years ago. Then the Ustashas showed up, they came up to the bus, they started screaming, they were banging, they were scratching on the windows, and they said, "Where are you Serbs, we're the Ustashas from Split, come out to be slaughtered." I don't know if you have enough evidence to support our claim that we have to fight for what's ours? We never wanted to fight with anyone, and we defended truly heroicly, many have laid down their heroic lives defending the country and Serbia where the Ustashas attacked us, but be sure that through state-wise policy, above all, what our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, in The Hague tribunal, and we as politicians for the future, will guarantee us international public law, if ever it starts to be respected, that every man can live freely in his own territory, on his hearth, from where the evicted dove is from, and many are killed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25627	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25628	I don't know why this agreement is so important to the ruling majority. Does Serbia benefit from foreign trade with Croatia? Not that I know of. If anyone wonders whether they should end diplomatic relations with Croatia, they should, because Serbia is the queen of the Serbian people and it is a shame that this government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the government of October 5th and the government of Zoran Zivkovic, have not asked Croatia for one single time to protect the rights of Serbs living in Croatia, that persons who are now displaced around the world, including here in Serbia, return to their centuries-old hearths. Now we are making a precedent and doing Croatia a favor, that, God forbid, there is something smuggling on her territory. He's coming to us from them, he's going to Podravka, he's going to do everything and everything. Get into every store and you'll see how much they own. That's what this is all about. They're destroying our domestic economy, destroying our domestic potential. And because of them, we got these economic sanctions and our economy is cramping because of them. Now let's do more, give them the market, the factories and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25629	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25630	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored President, dear citizens of Serbia... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: dear mom and dad. Miss Jovanovic, my dad has passed away, you should be ashamed. It's not good, but you're ashamed of yourself, shame on you. Laugh, Miss Jovanovic, but Serbian citizens have had a chance to see how you treat the dead now. Talking about someone who's a traitor is very easy. Since you also said that in 1995 in Novi Sad, before then federal elections, that Slobodan Milosevic is the biggest traitor in the history of the Serbian people, so in the past month you promoted him to the largest Serb who lived in the 20th century. What's the idea of this agreement? The idea is to establish good neighbourly relations, so that we can all live better, so that we can become part of the European Community, which I suppose is the goal of both Serbian citizens in Croatia and Serbian citizens here. These relations have been corrupted by someone during the 1990s, and whoever broke it, we all know, and we know who negotiated the exorcism of Serbs and who negotiated the division of BiH. Your former coalition partner was negotiating. The fact is that Serbia has not yet managed to make a surplus in trade-slave exchange with Croatia, but last year the export of Serbian food to Croatia was in surplus, as well as in BiH, to Macedonia. Every day, the Serbian economy becomes more competitive and Serbia becomes a leader in the region, but cannot repair overnight what you have destroyed during the 1990s. It's impossible to start the economy in one day, because it's systematically destroyed during the 1990s. That's what you've been involved in. As for what you did not understand, which is bilingual, Miss Jovanovic, look at some medieval Serbian documents, such as Dusan's Code, so you will see that "secure" is a substitute for "secret" in the old Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25631	It was Mr. Borko Ilic's exposure. Obviously everything is the same, Vuk Draskovic is always with power. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25632	Young sir, first you should have come to the National Assembly, since you prefer Ustasha's new address, with a "crucial tighten" and not so torn up in that shirt, you would have spoken to me. Another thing, don't ever think about misreading my faces and saying that I'm laughing at dead people, because I lost my father five years ago. On the other hand, take a little care of how you even speak smarter than yourself, which I belong to every SRS MP and any Serb who is not in this assembly, because that you, young sir, are at least partly like your party colleague, Mr. Mikavica, who would not have thought of it, and the same is from Novi Sad, to defend them from their crimes and crimes, you could have learned something, since you came from Novi Sad. I didn't expect to, nor could I have expected to teach you anything by Dusan Prophetic. I've known for years that he can't teach you anything, and he just showed it here. You'd better keep your mouth shut. And yet, as our people would say, to the sack of salt, you get, as you say, Borko, as your last name must be, I still don't know how long and to enter this assembly door, and in the next election you won't see this hall on the postcard. Wait a minute, you are a young teenager, but don't run like that. First I stop talking, and then I go and sit in my seat, and you call, so if you're chairman of that word, and before that you get this, as I told you to call it, "crucially tightened."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25633	Mr. Ilic is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I would have warned Miss Natasha that she insulted you, but really conventional dress implies tie. It's a translation of what she said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25634	Madam Chairman, since you are promoting to support the Serbian language here, I would really like you to explain to me what "conventional" means, since it certainly does not come from Serbian. Mrs. Jovanovic, I was born in Novi Sad, in Serbia's Athens. To me, the mother of Glamoč, Verici Radeti is surely familiar with this place, lives nearby, in Livna, and my father is dead from Manjaca, I don't know if you've heard of it, Snake, Petar Kočić, whether, as an extremely educated person, you know one of his stories. Since you mentioned Serbian Athens, how you defend Serbia's Athens testify that as a citizen of Serbian Athens, it is a shame that your party colleague Igor Mirovic paved two of the oldest streets in that Serbian Athens, Danube and Dragon Jovina, with plates and stones imported from Croatia and produced in Croatia. So much for your heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25635	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic has a replica of Natasa Jovanovic. It's time to take a break, so please use the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25636	It refers to a member of the Rules of Procedure who orders MPs to try to bring out something that would really represent the common truth, not to bring out some of their impressions. I can understand that a man defined himself one way or another, but in 1995 it wasn't a federal election. (Borko Ilic, from the post: 1995, but the campaign started in 1996. ) Just to be clear: 1995 was not a federal election. They were on December 1996. Secondly, our coalition partner agreed on the division of Bosnia, and in The Hague there is talk of the agreement and the conversation between Slobodan Milosevic and Franjo Tudjman, but, as far as memory serves, it relates for the period 1992-1993. In 1993 in this assembly, as Tomislav Nikolic explained the proposal to vote non-trust with the Republic government, Slobodan Milosevic disbanded the National Assembly; so we were not in a coalition, at a time when some associations were being made about it. I'm surprised you didn't mention Dobrica Cosic reached an agreement with Franjo Tudjman on the exchange of population. You kind of skipped it. Secondly, what you forgot, we were coalition partners from 1998 to 5 October 2000, but keep in mind when you honor us with that coalition partner from 1998 to 2000, and you say that this applies to the period before that, that these are your coalition partners today. You should have some basic respect for those coalition partners of yours. I understand the need to answer, to point to something, to state your political position, but we simply can't do anything against nature. Nature is inexorable. She has her own rules, some lawfulness, and don't play with nature, because for some time I'm surprised how much that SPS can take this when you attack us through them, and you sit with them. That would be about the same if I attacked you from the position of the Democratic Party and honored you with DS. I'm making some difference, though, that she exists. I hope that around these indisputable facts we don't have to work very hard, but it's very degutant when it comes out, so when what everybody knows turns around, it presents itself, doing a projected picture that needs to be created about something. The Serbian Radical Party is not for war, it does not want war, the war is imposed on the Serbian people. The only answer to the Serbs was the former SFRY, as in the former SFRY all Serbs were in one state. But when that story starts and that inversion starts, then it becomes serious, because it awakens both memories and bad emotions and affects the people who survived, who have been able to see all these perversions that have happened to their relatives and their family. We criticise the political agreement and this law that you are proposing, because we believe that conditions are not met for that kind of good neighbouring country, but we give you an alternative and we say – general rules on customs traffic also guarantee these things. However, you are conditioned by one agreement with a deadly kiss. That's the problem, which is a deadly kiss that aims to forget everything. Broz did it in 1945, Solana's been doing it since 2001, that's the danger. The truth should come out and I'm simply surprised that you as a party in the words of these two representatives are avoiding the truth. It's just the truth that needs to be told. We ask nothing more than the truth. We must come to the truth for ourselves, for our generations, for the danger that it can happen again in 10, 15, 20 years. (Dusan Prophetovic, from the scene: someone was selling "ronhil". Arrest whoever was selling Ronhill. Zoran Krasic didn't sell it. I didn't say you were selling it, but don't turn the discussion around. I have no intention of defending anyone here, I'm just telling you - one thing's true, people. That truth is on the side of this people. Don't step on the truth because someone has concluded that it can't be potent, to open the question, to tell history what happened. History said and the SRS won't let anyone write us a history of what happened here. Every day we're going to write, we're going to tell the facts, that future historians know what's true, what happened, how someone brutally broke up a country. The destruction of that country killed only one people. We're being attacked everywhere, only by Serb refugees. Everyone else is back. Only the Serbs can't come back. That's true. I don't mind you defending this agreement, but don't step on the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25637	The right to replicate Borko Ilic's exposure has Natas Jovanovic. Please, so let's close the search.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25638	Mr. Ilic, Dejan Mikavica is not in the hall, but it was necessary for Dusan Proroković to warn you that as a coalition partner of the SRS, although minorityly, in Novi Sad you cannot present such untruths and that in the absence of counterpart Igor Mirovic, especially because these are harsh lies, you are saying things that you are trying to discredit yourself, or your party, because you are in a coalition with the SRS in Novi Sad, which is very well run by the city, and Mrs. Gojkovic as its mayor, and the parliamentary majority in the Kragujevac City Assembly and business directors, as well as the City Building Office. As for this job you're talking about and putting it under suspicion and in such a way you want to disqualify the tireless work of counterpart Igor Mirovic, I guess because, in a year's time, Novi Sad, a Serbian Athens, has flashed a glow that has never been seen in that city, especially during the rule of the DS, it is neither right nor correct, just because you are from the DSS. Someone should have warned you about that. This stone Mr. Mirovic made beautiful Novi Sad is from Germany or Belgium, I don't know exactly where, and this thesis and story was countered by Novakovic and that yellow autonomous lobby from Novi Sad, which is working hard but unsuccessfully to discredit the work of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and Mr. Igor Mirović. As for the sale of cigarettes and tobacco smuggling at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and those most exploited, Mr. Prophetovic, I warmly recommend you to read a book written by our president (and here you will recognize how the top of the Dossova former furniture and those now offered for co-operation), which is called "Stanko Subotic - Cane Zhabac, king of the tobacco mafia". He spoke not only of the period from 2000 to 2003, but also of 1993 and 1994 and all the years when our country was under sanctions and the fact that individuals from the top of the Dossian government and how they exploited and found a lucrative job smuggling cigarettes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25639	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, it should, in accordance with Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to ask whether the representative of the proponent Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, wants a word, but he is not there. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm taking a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25640	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We're continuing our afternoon work today's session. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DANIUM CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR Development (STRUCTURAL APPLICATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA) (single) at the same time to inform all of you that, pursuant to Article 85. Rules of Procedure, today to work at the latest until the conclusion of the debate in particular on the agenda of the 1800 hours. I hope we'll be effective and we'll actually end up before that, but that depends on the discussion. Thank you very much. In that case, the session won't be tomorrow; I guess I can't know right now, so we'll probably schedule a vote for Monday, so you can schedule your commitments. Thank you very much. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vojislav Milajic, Bozidar Koprivica, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Igor Bečić and Dragan Zivkov on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25641	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems to me that this assembly is beginning to give for everything and all sorts of counterguarantees. Here is the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the International Development Association, and it is also said that the funds will be spent on structural adjustment of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. You don't see much in the title itself. It is already in this first article that certain illogicalities are observed, which is that the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation as a counterguarantee of Serbia-Montenegro's obligations, amounting to 55 million special drawback rights, under the Development Credit Agreement – a structural adjustment credit between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Development Association, signed on 5 February 2002, which was confirmed by the Law attesting the Development Credit Agreement – a structural adjustment credit between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the International Development Association, with contributions. So it is said that the law is published in the Official Journal of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, issue 2/02. It seems that after October 5th, it wasn't enough to give up the continuity of the SFRY, but Vojislav Kostunica, in a way not envisaged by the Constitution, without the consent of the Federal Assembly, requested the admission of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as new members of the United Nations. That was not enough either, so a Belgrade agreement was made, which once again unconstitutionally abolishes one state and makes a call to a state called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Now that's not enough either, so let's destroy the state community, but it can't do that at the level of the Federal Assembly or the National Assembly, call it whatever you want, but parliaments and other members have to do it in some way. One way to destroy a state community without a referendum is to give consent and guarantees as in this case. The question arises why the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be a counterguarantee. Apparently, under some law, there are obligations, etc. However, the Federal Assembly has already resolved this, even then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, ratified the agreement, gave it the power of the law. Why is the consent of the Republic of Serbia now sought? It is obvious that the owner of the credit, i.e. the International Development Association, no longer recognises the state union as a legal entity, and that is why I need, under their dictatorships and their conditions, to give up some common state. The state union is a member of the United Nations, internationally recognised legal entity, and here I am alone here, without a referendum called in Montenegro and which the mafia separatist forces in Montenegro will not succeed... Now that they're not gonna make it, that's what we're going to do here by giving these counterguarantees, these kind of consents, for the money that's been taken a long time ago. Furthermore, the question arises what kind of structural adjustment is between the Republic of Serbia and the EU? What are we adapting to the EU? Are we one step closer to the EU when it comes to our economy? We didn't. Is there a new factory open? It's not. Is the technology of the existing industry improved? It's not. What happened – those few companies that worked on market principles and which succeeded, thanks to certain circumstances, to survive after October 5th, were sold for reasons. There were no large investments in these economic operators. The state didn't do anything about it. Robbery privatisation continues. Cementaries were sold three at a time at a price lower than one, while Vlahovic was the privatisation minister. We now have a situation that the order of what the DOS was not allowed to privatise, which is: Serbia's oil industry, Serbia's Elektroprivreda, Serbia's Railways. Everything is slowly divided into less overalls, I guess with the hope that, in smaller continents, this gift will be less in the eyes of Serbian citizens. Is this a structural adjustment to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, for which $70 million was spent? What's the matter? Why do we give counterguarantee to ourselves, because in the very law, it says that the credit user is the Republic of Serbia. The credit on behalf of the Republic of Serbia has been taken by the SRJ, and we are now giving ourselves counter-guarantee. If we don't pay off that guarantee, how are we going to activate the counterguarantee, ourselves? This is bullshit from these legal proposals. I wish there was a finance minister, who was authorized by the government on these points of the agenda. He talked very little about these laws. Looks like he's after Kljajevic. Thanks to the assembly majority, the judge Kljajevic was not resolved in 2004. Now you're arresting him. He had a man of time for another two years, another 10-20m euros, to privatise several other businesses through bankruptcy, where both Gilas and the company, along with Boris Tadic, will put another 10-20m euros in their pocket. It seems to have gone a little too far, so you decided to put it away, it doesn't seem like he's been sharing money well enough with some of them. That's the reason. So 70 million dollars is spent by putting companies into bankruptcy, by making less of them to sell them for as little money as possible who knows who.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25642	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25643	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantees to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on behalf of the International Development Association, by proposing that Article 2 be deleted, such as all my colleagues suggested that all members be deleted, because the law is absolutely pointless. Article 2 The bill, which I have proposed to delete, reads: "The counter-guarantee referred to in Article 1 of this law is given to Serbia-Montenegro, in the name of the obligation under the SRJ's Indemnity Act with the International Association for Development". The Serbian Radical Party believes new borrowings are not needed, especially because the government is unable to solve many problems. It is incapacitated because there is a constant decline in living standards, general unemployment, a decline in production, so it is pointless to practically borrow a country with such expensive loans. Why would the Republic of Serbia give counter-guarantee to loans taken by the SRJ? Does this mean that this development association no longer recognises our common state of Serbia-Montenegro, which means that if you accept this solution, you are breaking up our common state before the referendum and before it is broken down, trying to break up the Ustasha regime of Milo Djukanovic. I think it's unacceptable and this amendment has been established, so I suggest you adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25644	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25645	Mr. Markovic, there's only one thing that's good in your rules of procedure, which is that these discussions would have to be attended by ministers. In particular, when this item is on the agenda, Minister Mladjan Dinkic would have to be here. Now, on a few examples, I'm going to prove why his presence is necessary, and perhaps even if you stop the debate until he arrives. You see, in our legal system there is one Djelic's law on the budget system, which Mr. Mladjan Dinkic asked for the immediate change of the moment the government of Vojislav Kostunica was established. At his request, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act was established, the majority voted, so that the law became modern, European, almost becoming a law in trend. Probably the reason they suggested him for a reward. Then, I must tell you that, regardless of the provisions in this Budgetary System Act, which regulate the granting of guarantees and counter-guarantees, Mr Mladjan Dinkic here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia last year defended the Law on Public Debt (although we had a principled remark that this was not a public debt law, but a law on borrowing, etc.). and there are also some provisions that regulate the issue of guarantees and counterguarantees. I had to tell you all of this for one simple reason -- that by any chance the minister is here, he would have to come out for a pay phone and explain to us whether what is in this bill is in Article 3 in any connection with these two laws that I just quoted, which was also defended by Mladjan Dinkic here. Is Article 3 of this Bill in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System and with the Law on Public Debt? I'm saying he's the opposite. Why? Article 3 The bill reads – the credit user based on the development credit agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act is the Republic of Serbia (the credit user). This is an abnormal situation. This most brilliant mind couldn't think of. Why? So that's not what those two laws I quoted earlier, which are European, global, for which Mr Dinkic was praised as a great expert, a great expert, a miracle of nature. Let me explain it to the viewers who are monitoring this transmission. That would be about like this: n.e.c. A citizen goes to the bank to get a loan and the bank says - we'll give you a loan, but for you he has to guarantee that you'll pay off a loan from one of your neighbors. Then the neighbor has to guarantee something. Then the bank says -- it's not enough guarantee, it's got to guarantee whoever's using the loan. Wait, so I'm using credit. Of course that situation is impossible. Here, as the one giving the counterguarantee, the user of the loan appears. Now the one who gives the counter-guarantee, he guarantees that the guarantee will meet the obligation of the credit user. Serbia guarantees that the state community will also vouch for Serbia using the loan. Come on, please let some doctor in here take a look at this, give me a doctor. Please, I'm reading an explanation with undecided intentions to inform the public yesterday, as Mr Dinkic said on some show – radicals everything they say is true. Now I'm reading what Mr. Dinkic wrote. Because, you know, ever since democracy took over, it just depends on who said what, who said the same sentence. If I say that sentence, it's a lie. If Dinkic says so, it's true. And that's the same sentence. This is what is written in the reasons for the adoption of this law – II, for those who have a bill before them and follow, says this: "Article 5. The debt law is prescribed," otherwise, it is a law passed in 2002 in the Federal Assembly, "that the Republic of Serbia will, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Debt Act, give the SRJ a counter-guarantee guaranteeing the orderly repayment of the loan. "So, it was 2003, 2004, 2005, only in 2006, did Dinkic remember that he was 30 days old in 2002. So, third, fourth, fifth, 36 months have passed since the last 30 days. And if there's more, it probably won't surprise anyone, it's already used, independent of this law, and it's in the National Bank in the form of a deposit and it serves as our foreign reserve. Now the question is raised here – why would the Republic of Serbia give counter-guarantee to a state community that guarantees something that the Republic of Serbia takes? Isn't the Republic of Serbia capable of completing this business on its own with someone who lends credit? Since all this is in cloudy waters, starting with the title of this law, just to remind you that is – structural adjustment of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. So the loan is used precisely for this kind of structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia's economy that it does not work. This is a unique example in history of obtaining a loan that is used to adjust the structural economy so that it no longer works, to be shut down. Of course, this idea also comes from Mr Dinkic and Labus. What they're arguing about about the primate in G17, and someone at the Trade Court gets hurt, we're going to do it another time, now is not the topic. They were the two federal administrations that had the exclusiveness of negotiations with the International Development Association; wherever they gave some credit for development, there the weeds came along, that you know. I'm going to remind you again, both in 2002 and 2001, when it came to that, that agreement contained an annex that Mr. Labus photocopyed and put into the materials that were distributed to the MPs in the Federal Assembly. I wasn’t an MP in the Federal Assembly at the time, but I had the opportunity to study the material. The annex had 20 and several political conditions, purely political; there was no UN tribunal, there were 400 companies that would have to privatise, the consent on the list gives some body to this International Development Association. It was then ordered to raise the price of medicines, to join preparations for the privatisation of the EPS, to review budget spending. Just to remind you, the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2000 was not adopted in this assembly, when it was an unnatural regime for 2001, when the first democratic regime came after the arson, for 2002, when the democratic regime was established, for 2003, when the democratic regime was changed even more democratically by the "Sablje" regime, for 2004, when experts came, however, I cannot call it because the deadlines had not yet expired. You see, Mr. Markovic, that on the basis of these facts that I have presented, whose truth is almost undisputed, it is necessary for Minister Dinkic to be here today and to say whether he is a member 3. The bill's proposal in accordance with or contrary to the reform, democratic and world regulations that led the government of Vojislav Kostunica to be praised for being a leader; no matter what the Balkans, Europe and the world, the world. So it would be necessary. For what? Not because of me, I know this very well, but because of MPs who make up the assembly majority, because unless what I'm saying is true, then they can vote, but that's what Mladjan Dinkic needs to tell them. If he confirms that what I'm saying is true, then I managed to fight Mladjan Dinkic with the parliamentary majority, which is also my mission as an opposition MP and convince the assembly majority that Minister Dinkic is not telling the truth, that he wants to deceive them, that he would hide behind the results of the vote tomorrow and say – please, I have nothing to do with this gang, that is, voted here and there. That's why it would be good, Mr. President, to swallow the dumpling, to invite Mr. Dinkic to make this very clear. Maybe we're a little primitive and simple and we don't understand how I give myself counterguarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25646	Thank you for your exposure, Mr. Krassic. It's not allowed to eat at the chair, so it's not possible to serve dumplings, as you know. And in any case, because of all of you, yes, I gave permission to the Minister to be absent from the session to attend the session of the Government. You're absolutely right about that. Thank you. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Coffee can, juice can, but no food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have learned that Minister Dinkic is justifiably absent, has been let by the president of the Assembly to be absent, but let's be serious, so we are passing laws here. Who defends the law? Who will explain to the MPs why individual amendments refuse? Who is there to possibly accept some amendment on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? An authorised representative of the government may change his mind at the session itself. It's happened so many times, no matter what the government's session is. I think when it comes to this kind of thing, and when it comes to this kind of money, that government session can pass without the finance minister Dinkic. Either the man decided to arrest someone else, we'll probably hear it now on the 1900 news or at 7:30. In fact, Article 4 shows the needlessness to pass one such law and one such loan. It is said in Article 4(1) of the Law that "the funds for the payment of credit under the Development Loan Agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act will be provided by the beneficiary of the credit. "Article 3 says: "The beneficiary of the credit under the Development Credit Agreement under Article 1 of this Law is the Republic of Serbia. "So, the SRJ, which you killed in the right sense of the word, owed by some basis the Republic of Serbia $70 million. Now let's see how that money gets back. So it is said: "The credit user is obliged to provide the funds for the payment of the loan according to the payment plan for all the funds withdrawn, in the amount that includes the chief, the costs based on the engagement and service of the credit funds and other costs. "Well, come on now, the credit user needs to do it, anyway, but I don't see why it has to be written in this law. I guess Serbia pays off in time and serves its loans; are we going to do those loans that Josip Broz took, and the user was the Republic of Serbia, to give counter-guarantee? However, Miroljub Labus went and signed on behalf of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia various loans, and admitted, which no one has ever seen, no one from Serbia has ever used. In any case, you can see that you are consistent with that 2001 policy, 2002, and now continues in 2006. The last view is said: "The credit user will provide funds for the payment of loans in the Republic of Serbia's budget and make payments to Serbia-Montenegro's special account with the National Bank of Serbia, with the sole purpose of paying off the loan. "So, on a special account we are paying the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Why? Because you have abolished the budgets or the budget of the state community; you have abolished with Milo Djukanovic, the world-caliber mobster, the state, you have abolished the budget; when the state has no budget, it does not exist. That's what you do consciously, knowingly on his arm, malts like you're working on his dictatorship. Basically, whatever he wants from you, he gets it. Now, since there is no more federal state, which you are knowingly destroying, what will not pass Mila Djukanovic in a referendum on independent Montenegro should be done by MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and by such recognition and by giving various counter-guarantees, simply to give up the state even before the referendum comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25648	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25649	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, we can continue with the quiz – who is lying. Probably this quiz would be more interesting than the BK or the third channel. Why? You see for yourself, according to the reasoning of this bill, it takes $70m to borrow a loan, where Serbia guarantees the state community that Serbia will return. According to the government's proposal, this law would take effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So if there was a vote Monday, it would probably get the same day or the next day's apparition, it would probably be published on Tuesday, and there somewhere next Wednesday, that law would come into effect. However, I have little knowledge of things and these funds have already been used, so this law has no effect in terms of the accuracy of compliance with the provisions of this law. But what really has to interest everyone in finding an answer to the question of what is done – you see, in reason, under V, there is an analysis of the effects of the law; here the Government informs us what the effects of this law are, are they positive, are they negative. If these positive results are positive, expressed in some figures; if $70m is used for structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia's economy, then there must be some projection within a year, two, three, five or ten of what effects will be. You can probably say - the effects of this ten-year law will be so many and so many jobs, changing the structure, we will no longer produce only this product, but we will conquer some new products, programs and so on. How does an economist, proposed for a reward, inform us? He says: Analysis of the effects of the law – since the adoption of this law represents the realisation of the legal obligation prescribed by the Law of Obligation (i.e., the Minister informs us that the legal obligation that was created in 2002 was only carried out here), an analysis of the effects was not carried out when this regulation was made. Mr. President, I must warn you that this bill has not met the condition prescribed by your rules of procedure to be on the agenda, because this is roughly this, in free translation – it is important to adopt this law on counter-guarantee, to steal money, and what effects they will be, we are not interested in it at all. So the finance minister doesn't care at all about the debt effect of $70 million. You see how inconclusive that is. There's probably a lot of work: there's got to be someone arrested, there's got to be a strategic position within his party, inside some lobby, being on the board of directors of the tobacco agency, even though he doesn't smoke, and so on. The task of the minister and his ministry is to make a quality analysis, so on the basis of the effects to convince you, so you say -- how people criticise this law, you see the effects of being, in the first year, in the second year, in the fifth, at the tenth, at 15th, the economic structure of Serbia will change, 20, 30 or 50,000 workers will be employed. He, knowing that he owns most of it here, says in such a nonchalant way, as a great expert proposed for the prize – we haven't even done any analysis, we don't care. So the entire expert capacity of the minister is down to 126 votes. Furthermore, probably because of this fact that the legal obligation to which the call ended in 2002, this law did not come on the agenda of an emergency procedure, because it would be really illogical to write down the reasons for the emergency procedure, but I must tell you that this law is in the procedure of 9 March and 10 March 2006 respectively. E, what is the relationship to the analysis of the effects of this law, what is the relationship to the legal obligations that occurred in 2002, with the obligation to pass such a law within 30 days, means in 2002, you can best see what kind of government you support and what kind of minister you support. Mr. Markovic, I would recommend that you warn the minister that when he makes a public appearance, if he wants to prove or insult radicals, so that he says "they lie whenever they come out", you remind him of these legal obligations and just draw attention to him that the radicals have read what Minister Dinkic wrote. Then let it be made known whether it is well written or misread. What's written goes down in history, and I hope these are our criticisms too, so someone's going to judge later who's lying and who's stealing and who's stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25650	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) I remind you that all procedural conditions have been met as soon as the Assembly voted, and that only by an organization such as Grinpis can decide on the battle for primates. Since we have completed the review of the draft law in particular, I ask if Mr Mladjan Dinkic's representative wishes to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK PURPOSE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR RURALITY ( OTHER CREDIT FOR STRUCTURAL PURPOSE - THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA) (single) You have received amendments submitted by National MPs Nenad Mitrović, Stevica Dedjanski, Milivoje Vuković, Milan Stevović and Ivan Radić on the proposal of the law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25651	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the International Development Association. I'm asking for Amendment One to be deleted. Why? Because the proposed law is not good and we believe it brings the state into uncontrollable debt. It is necessary to stop further borrowing, especially because this government, as well as the previous government, is unable to run the state, which is seen in increasing the number of unemployed, dropping living standards and production in general, so that these loans become meaningless and only pose a burden to the state and the people. It is obvious that the International Development Association no longer recognises Serbia-Montenegro as a state, so by accepting such legal proposals by the Serbian Parliament in advance, the state is being torn apart and humiliated. As I said, we in the SRS believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is introducing the Republic of Serbia into uncontrollable obligations and we believe that this is not good. I'm going to talk a little bit about this amendment, I'm speaking to the government gentlemen, they should take a little more care of the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija. I must say that in front of the SRS, together with Nemanja Sarovic, I visited Kosovo and Metohija a few days ago and that we visited several schools in Strpc and the home of health. I must say, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is desperate. The government should take a little more care of our people living in Kosovo and Metohija. I note that we went to several schools in Strpec. I must say that these are institutions under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in one part is at peace with obligations relating to the salaries of teachers and teachers, but that in the other part, as regards material costs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not provide those funds, but, as the people in the direct conversation told us, refer them to UNMIK and KFOR institutions. I ask you, gentlemen, is it necessary for our people to be in charge of these institutions to be blackmailed by these same institutions that I mentioned later? When talking about these material costs, these are primarily heating costs and fuel costs necessary for the operation of aggregates. I must also point out that in a conversation with doctors from the House of Health of Strpce, we were told that at the same time three doctors are in the office, which means they work in impossible conditions. That is why I call upon the gentlemen of power - if you are in charge of the state, help our people in Kosovo and Metohija to live in normal conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25652	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a debate on the details of the previous law, and it is called the first structural adjustment loan of the Republic of Serbia, and this is now called the second loan... So it wasn't enough $70 million. It looks like the appetites are growing slowly. The $70m was spent by the DOS government, headed by two prime ministers, and the new DOS government, a bit of a back-up DOS on 16 December 2004, but DOS again takes credit, gives it a nice name and gives it a second credit, and continues to be in debt to the Republic of Serbia. It seems that those funds were not enough for tycoons in Serbia. It takes a little more money for the citizens to be in charge, so there's still some money to be made. Now, we have a law here called the law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the International Development Association (the second loan for structural adjustment - the Republic of Serbia). So in that first wave of adjustments, when cements were sold, when the chemical industry that could work and be sold at a higher price, the drug industry, etc., were these structural adjustments. With that money, we can't even repay the first loan we got from the privatisation. Now it takes a little more money to make this little business that's left to be sold out, but before that, structurally it has to be adjusted. What is structural adjustment? Does this mean that, for example, when it comes to electricity prices, structural adjustment is an increase in electricity prices? Is that what you need credit for? No, an EPS request is needed, the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia and there are new prices, like a few days ago. Do you need money to raise oil and oil prices? Well, it's not much. So, this will be done by NIS, will be applied, the government of the Republic of Serbia will give its consent. The government of the Republic of Serbia, however, also has a large share in the purchase of oil and oil derivatives, not only the world price of oil on the market, but also the tax policy that this government is leading through excises, through value added taxes, through monopoly when it comes to oil and oil imports. Only the government can import oil products, no one can buy them on the world market freely. He can buy, though, crude oil, that he's here for processing and again under unfavourable conditions to place it on the market. It is a structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia's economy. Is the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia that this government intends to sell public utility companies, such as plumbing, sewerage, garbage. Is it the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia to sell? In countries that are in our environment and have done so a few years ago, not to say a dozen years and more, the situation now is that the state is buying back companies at a much higher price than it sold ten years ago, because it simply lost complete control of the work of these companies and these companies have compromised the standard of living of their citizens. Are we going to learn from other people's mistakes or do we have to learn from our own? Our people have one saying: "Smart is taught by others' mistakes, but a fool is on his own." I guess we didn't learn anything from our mistakes, let alone from someone else's. Is the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia that we're going to sell to Elektroprivreda? Is the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia that in all these processes that I have now listed a large number of workers to be jobless? Will this money be at least used for the social program? He won't. They'll end up with some callers who'll charge fat for analysis, effects, etc. these programs; fat to charge, fat to put us in charge. Who's responsible for that? The government of the Republic of Serbia. This government of the Republic of Serbia is no better than the one before. However, those in the previous government laughed and destroyed the Republic of Serbia, and those in the new government are scolding, as they are sorry, but they are doing the same job.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25654	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25655	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I tabled an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the credit of the International Association for Development (the second loan for structural adjustment - the Republic of Serbia), which reads: "Article 3 is deleted". Who knows how much more credit there will be. This is only the second, followed by the third, the fourth, who knows. This is another law in a series of your failed laws, and that is why we from the Serbian Radical Party had to submit amendments to the law, which are identical, because we wanted the whole law deleted, i.e.. to withdraw from the procedure, because it brings nothing good to the citizens of this country, but only new borrowings continue to poverty. This law legalizes further robbery and destruction of the state. Many of you say we're radicals, and we don't have some real amendments, but we're just "expunging." Normally, for each member, we suggest that it be deleted when we are essentially against the whole law. But I'm asking you, how does the government respond to why any amendment is not accepted. Although all members of the law are different, the government is in a position to explain why the amendment is not accepted has the same answer for all members of the law. According to you, it's normal. I still think it makes sense and closer to common sense that if we're against the whole law for each member, we're asking him to delete himself. I also don't understand the government's haste about passing a law like this. Why are we in such a hurry and not wait for a referendum in Montenegro to see what will become of the common state. It is somewhat clear to me if this law was proposed by these experts from G17 plus, as they openly advocate the disintegration of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. I think it is necessary to stop further borrowing, because this government, as well as the previous government, is unable to run the state, which is seen in increasing the number of unemployed, dropping living standards and production in general, so that these loans become meaningless and only pose a burden to the state and the people. It is also obvious that the International Development Association no longer recognises Serbia-Montenegro as a state, so by accepting such legal proposals by the Serbian Parliament in advance, the state is being torn apart and humiliated. Article 3 on which I submitted the amendment reads: "The beneficiary of the credit under the Development Credit Agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act is the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the credit user). "I think this is just stupidity, and in the previous draft of the law, my colleague Krasic explained it perfectly to you. He told you it's not possible that I'm a credit user to be guaranteed, i.e. that gives counterguarantees to the loan itself. And for this, I think the government should accept this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25656	Anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25657	This is Mr Stevovic's amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. There's no difference between this bill and the one we were just talking about. This is another phase, another loan for the structural adjustment of the Republic of Serbia. One of the only reasons why our amendments are being rejected is this, in the government's view... They are calling for a law on borrowing that has been prescribed that the Republic of Serbia will give Serbia-Montenegro a counter-guarantee, which will guarantee an orderly payment of the loan. So Serbia guarantees Serbia-Montenegro that Serbia will repay the loan neatly. The funds of this loan will implement projects aimed at strengthening the financial system and maintaining macroeconomic stability. In translation, it means that credit should be used for operations that are in the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, in order to preserve the course, in order to intervene in a timely manner to preserve the course and to be in one place the funds for the day when the loan should be returned. Where are those funds? For now we do not know, we are waiting for a report from the National Bank of Serbia, to see how much funds are in which vault and what is the structure of the foreign reserves. But about that one. It means maintaining this reality that we have a stable dinar. He's so stable that he's practically questioning business activity, given that our market is open to foreign goods, and that our exporters are losing this kind of policy of the dinar course. This means that in continuity we have the destruction of domestic production, starting with the bombing, through the crisis headquarters of Miroslav Labus and Vojislav Kostunica, at least that's what Miroljub Labus said – the idea of introducing crisis headquarters in October, November and December 2000 was his, that Kostunica gave consent. And then you remember when it came to pass, who was the first to the factory of his factory; and to the court, he had the place of the President of the Court, etc. So this is the continuity of a policy that gave light to the burning of the Federal Assembly. Article 4 regulates in a very serious way how someone who gives counterguarantee to someone who questions whether it exists as a legal person who can bear the responsibility of guaranteeing for himself that he will return the loan neatly. In translation, this means mortgage. For the amount of these funds, a mortgage is put here, which means – if it does not return, you choose the country, select only the plot, choose the quantity, it is there. Well, of course we can't vote for this, that shouldn't be expected of us, because if we voted for this bill we probably as a party would no longer have an excuse to exist. Simply, there must be some difference on the political scene in Serbia and there must be at least one party that cares about preserving Serbia. It is likely that those who follow this transmission can conclude who they are, who are persistently, on every agenda point, for every member of the bill, come out and take this mask off this two-way government in Serbia and simply show citizens what has hit them since 5 October, with more or more of the same governments of the democratic opposition to Serbia. The sooner we concentrate in space and time, believe me, the easier it will be for us to get out of this crisis. This crisis is going to take a lot of time for us, you know, because I repeat again, the International Development Association when it gives credit to it is about the same effects as the country that NATO pact troops go through. Where a soldier's boot goes by for years nothing grows. The civil aspect of military shoes and military boots is the International Development Association. It works so politically, it only sounds very nice – macroeconomic stability and the financial market, but in everyday life you know that it means nothing or that it has its own negative meaning. We're solving this enigma that's lying, and whoever's telling the truth, we're solving an enigma whether there's a conspiracy theory. She probably doesn't exist, but according to supporters of that theory, whatever is predicted and said that's what's going to happen. So we are hit by this elemental disaster, called this government, which in this way structurally adapts that even grass no longer grows in us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25658	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, the Proposer's representative does not want to give the final word, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND CREDIT BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR Development (CREDIT FOR THE Development OF THE PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR) (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the bill: Lazar Cavic, Darko Glisic, Milos Dišić, Milorad Krstin and Milovan Radovanović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Arsic. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25659	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not agree with the finding that an authorised representative of the promoters does not want to give the final word when it comes to the discussion of details. The proposing authority, the finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic is not there. Even if he doesn't want to give the closing word, he still has to be in this room. Only if you're not in some realm of science fiction, so maybe the spiritual man here is present, so that's the only way that's possible. Similar laws, suggestions, members, minors are about to be prescribed. A small amount differs, the day is different, i.e. the date on which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in debt, and the names of the laws themselves are very similar: the law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit to the International Development Association (the first credit for the programme development of politics in the private and financial sectors). Be careful, first of all, there'll be more loans, there'll be more counterguarantees like this. We'll still be in charge of Serbia's citizens. Now I ask the question - and what is happening in the private and financial sectors, and what are we adapting to in the private sector? What, are we going to organize private seminars, explain how money is made? Shall we open up markets in smaller places? Are we going to sell records of the value of the Republic? So it is known who is privileged to buy these records from value. The highest quantities of paper were purchased by the two: Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. He also collects the old foreign savings. On 100 marks or euros, old foreign exchange savings paid 60, waited a few years and were good almost to the dinar dinar, if not more. What's going on in the private sector so credit is needed? Will the state stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises that manage to place their products on the international market? He won't. We set up the Export Promotion Agency just for that reason, so if someone else is employed, another authority of the administration invents, but real exporters, real entrepreneurs don't have much use for that. Does the state stimulate exports? Not at all, no single dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget is intended to stimulate exports. And all countries, even in the environment, do that. We've passed the anti-monopolis law and the Price Protection Act, where we're trying, but the law is so badly written that it's unusable, to protect the domestic economy from the impact of state subsidies in the environment. Is there any provision of that law in place? It's not. Will it? They never will. But that's why it's not a problem to put the state in charge of 38 million special draw rights. So far you've written 38 million with six zeroes, now you're writing 38 million letters, probably so that the laws that go by each other can be at least a little different from each other. So somewhere between $45 million and $50 million. There is no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia to explain to us what programme development is, in which stages it will be designed, how it will be implemented, to which the funds will be used. When the debate was in principle of the Serbian government, the absentee did not mention it, nor did he say a letter, he did not even read the law. Simply, a man keeps a word of ten minutes for 12 legal proposals. I expected more than one minister, even from those illiterate, as was the previous minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs, who was enrolled when I started learning to walk, so he hadn't finished it yet, so he knew how to talk for a while. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs, except for the name of the law and how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be in charge, do not know, because there is no government representative, how this money will be spent, what kind of programme it is, and whether it is worth even giving consent to one of these duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25660	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the International Development Association's loan (credit for the development of the private and financial sectors). It's very interesting, and you'll understand why I'm asking for article four to be deleted. In fact, Article 4 states: "The funds for the payment of the credit under the Development Loan Agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Act will be provided by the credit user. "I guess it makes sense for a credit user to be the one to repay the loan. Milorad Krstin can't lend money to the president of Mr. Markovic's Parliament and I'll be in charge of getting that money back to myself. However, there is something more interesting – the credit user is obliged to provide funds for the payment of the loan according to the payment plan for all the funds withdrawn, in the amount which includes the main one, the credit fund, the manipulative cost of the loan and the other costs. You see how much one such loan costs us. Here it is said – the first credit for the programme development of politics in the private and financial sectors. I read something very interesting in the paper yesterday, as Professor Dr Mladjan Kovacevic of the Institute of Economic Sciences said. According to the World Bank, Serbia is a highly in charge of the country, as its debt was more than 2.2 times the export of goods and services at the end of the year. Exports from Serbia in 2005 amounted to 6.2 billion dollars, with external debt of 15.5 billion and none of these 26 transition countries having such an unfavourable relationship. I'm talking about an unfavourable relationship. If I were to connect a little point nine, where we had the same counter-guarantee, but for the revitalisation of the irrigation and disposal system, I can't help but mention, seeing as I only have one colleague here from the Committee on Agriculture, that for a year the members of the Agriculture Committee have been asking the Ministry of Agriculture to deliver to us, since the Development Fund for Irrigation Systems has been given 180 million dinars and they say three entities have received 60 million... We've been asking for a year on the Agriculture Committee from someone from the Ministry and they haven't been able to tell us who the three entities are yet. Isn't it more logical for him to get 60 million each than three million each? When we see a grace period of one year, it means there's four years left for 15 million to pay off that loan. I can't help but mention the same Ministry of Agriculture, which in a very, very, very, very, very favourable way, has made farmers register their agricultural holdings and register. It says you'll get loans, short-term, long-term, non-refundable. And, behold, out of 750,000 households in Serbia, around 150 were registered. This year, they released a short-term loan on March 6th at noon, and already on March 9th, they suspended, as it has requested 16,000 loans, and they are able, like, 11,000 loans to approve, I am talking about short-term loans. However, in the Central Bank County of banks that provide these short-term and long-term loans, we come to the realization that not a thousand from that bank, not 200, not 100 have not received short-term loans, and you see here we bring laws, counter-guarantees, agriculture has been obtained, the Ministry of Finance is obliged to, with the Ministry of Agriculture, which it promises through the media, through the Assembly... And it seems that he is here, who is nearing the fire before and warms himself up. Therefore, gentlemen, do not extend any loans that are not available to any farmer. What happens if all 750,000 households are registered and only gets 11,000 registered households loans? What about the other 740,000? And not to mention long-term loans, individual members of the Committee who received 30,000 euros in loans... Therefore, the SRS will not vote for this set of laws on Serbia-Montenegro's counterguarantees, and it would be good if the minister, who is not physically present, and spiritually seems to be, in this assembly, well thought and that some things, especially when it comes to loans, are simply fenced.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25662	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Thanks for that nice offer, although I didn't understand, for the past 50 years I've never taken a loan, but it's a good idea. Thank you. Following the same amendment, MP Mika Vlaović
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25663	It's not according to the amendment. Mr. Christin probably accidentally said something that doesn't match the truth. No one from the Agriculture Committee got a loan, at least as far as I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25664	Thank you. I didn't realize it that way either. I figured out from the board that decided, is that it? They'll explain Mr. Christin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25665	Mr. Vlaovicu, ask Mr. Rafaelovic how much credit his son has received.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25666	I don't believe anyone's son is a member of the board. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25667	What a man has to do with his son, he's just his father and nothing else. A child has no right to take credit if his father is on that committee. It's ridiculous that someone's looking for it. It's like that story -- it's not my gas station, it's my wife's, what I have with her. It's Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic; what he's got with his wife's gas stations, it's for him, I guess, small-time cash. Okay, they're doing it together, a complicated family, there's nothing. (President: Please, no throwing, it's not okay. Go on, Mr. Arsic. ) I would like to say in some ways that these laws are in principle and pointless, because under the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 these funds are already defined. Or we just have to make changes to the Budget Law, then predict these funds to pay off these loans. The question arises as to what is older - chicken or egg; if already foreseen by the Republic of Serbia budget and if there are intended funds, then it is absolutely pointless to pass a counter-guarantee law. It is said in Article 4 that the funds for the loan will be recovered from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Or, if we vote this, and the funds are not defined in the Republic of Serbia's budget, does this mean that we will be obliged to accept such a budget? What if it is not accepted in the Serbian budget? Such legal proposals are, in the right sense, pointless, and in particular, I repeat it again, which we do not know for what purpose this money will be spent on, what kind of programme development, which is its goal, whether money will get the economy, whether only those who have designed this programme will get it, on a variety of impact analyses, etc. Most of the time, you know what? I'll do you one job, but first you have to put yourself in charge of me, so you get what you asked for, and in the end you'll pay for it, and a favor, and a loan, and a interest and a principal, so, for one thing, a couple of times. So that such legislative proposals, especially now that there is no mandated representative of the proposing, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented in this assembly by Mladjan Dinkic, are not here in the O.R., only that he is present spiritually here... Does this mean that whoever gives us these funds, or credit, sets other conditions aside from the return of the loan and that it is spent on purpose? Whether we're going to have to use some of their other services that we're also going to allocate significant material resources, whether they have privileged manufacturers of various equipment, whether they condition us to buy this money, etc. Many questions, and there are no answers to these questions, and there is no one to answer whether on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before the MPs, this amendment accepts or refuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25668	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment, which the government has rejected? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. He's not there, please. There's no reason to see it. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE CREDIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL Association FOR RURALITY ( FIRST CREDIT FOR PROGRAMME RURGEMENTS IN THE PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR) (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Zlatan Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Boban Vojnović, Mita Avramov and Dragan Colić. Reports of the Finance and Legislative Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted have been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the people's messenger Mita Avramov. Once again, I am publicly warning and joining the warning given by some MPs to all members of the Legislative Committee: amendments can be rejected or said they are legally possible. The formulation that the amendment is rejected on the Legislative Committee is not possible. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25669	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the International Development Association (the first loan for programme policy development in the private and financial sectors), the SRS has also proposed in this case, as in the previous one, to delete these points. I also suggested that Article 4 be deleted with an explanation – it is necessary to stop further borrowing, especially because this government, as well as the previous one, is unable to run the state, as seen in increasing the number of unemployed, falling living standards, production in general, so that these loans become meaningless and only pose a burden to the state and the people. It is obvious that the International Development Association no longer recognises Serbia-Montenegro as a state, so by accepting such legal proposals by the Serbian Parliament in advance, the state is being torn apart and humiliated. I'd understand that loans are being raised, most likely and citizens, that we're building industries, factories, hiring people, producing something, and that something that we're producing on the market, that some of the funds come back and there's something to pay for. I don't know where and from which we'll pay back all the money this government wants to owe the entire state. Someone's gonna be fine, someone's gonna become, and from this government, as well as the previous, big capitalist, and he's got his own company, his own factory, to work and he doesn't care. And none of them can be proven where he got that money, and it's known to be, say, the president of the previous government. He's got a firm now, a man works, he's capable, he makes huge money, but I don't know where he gets the money to open that company. Also, when it comes to these loans, the SRS has a position not to raise any more loans, to turn to ourselves and to see what resources we have, to do something, to produce something, to sell, to get healthy money so that we can get back those loans we're already in charge of, not to borrow more later. I don't think these loans can ever be returned in this way, it's just going to be concessions; there are concessions for selling various companies, most likely from these loans, because they say – we'll give you a loan if you let us buy "Smederevo", I quote an example. That price has to be worth it, to buy for as little money as possible, so someone can get that money he invested in that factory for the first six months, not a year, and it's a long one, and later just to make money; if he doesn't like it further, to find one partner, because they're all there together in those clubs, to resell that company at the right value, and someone's always profiting from it. As it has profited from cementers, both beech and these down in Serbia, I mean Popovac... They're both, but I was thinking down south. You know who's profited... (President: Please, Mr Avramov, do not disturb the citizens. So in central Serbia there is Popovac, be kind and please, Mr. Krasic, let's not throw it away. Here you go. I thank you. That's how you want it here in a similar way. I have an interesting story: imagine, in Shid, there's been a sale of "Drem", a meat industry for a long time; "Drem" the meat industry was a giant and in then-Yugoslavia, a factory that had an export certificate, but it's not going to be sold, and all these days, and by the end of that year, but by the end of the year, the company hasn't sold out yet, it's waiting to be paid off as much as possible. The company that hired 1,700 workers and which had from field to table absolutely everything surrounded, total production. "Delta Bank" shows up, starts buying up shares, drives some stranger out there, and then stops and she won't buy any more, doesn't know what they're going to do, so they're going to go bankrupt, so if they go into bankruptcy to buy a factory, the workers won't get their shares that they have in that factory and so on. So the Victoria Group shows up, they want to buy that factory, so Delta Bank says, "Miskovic comes and says again -- he can't -- we're gonna buy it, so they're always arguing about who's going to take who won't, and it's going down every day. It's going to happen that someone's going to buy for small money again, that they're also going to invest small money to renovate it, that they're just going to turn around, that they know it, that they're going to cut the grass and sell it for much bigger money, so that they can go back to the bank they've been taken from, and that's the difference for sale they don't know where it is. We've seen this before in X cases, so it's probably going to happen here, which we're very sorry for, because we have a wish, we've tried to make this real story through local self-government, to find the right buyer who's going to buy that factory, who's going to run that factory, but it's going very hard, because someone isn't in the interest yet. When someone with an interest shows up, it'll be sold very soon. Why don't the state invest that part of the money, even out of a loan, to start it, so a factory that owns its own land, its own farms, its cattle-food factory, which has certainly the most modern slaughterhouse in the Balkans, which can make all the redesigns, so that we can run it, make these processings, export it, so we can pay off those loans we get. To do this in such a way, I think everyone here would be happy and that we would vote for these loans and that it would certainly be a unanimous decision in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25670	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25671	Since all these laws, literally, are similar, the difference is only in the amount of funds and the very strange purpose of these funds, this loan is about 38 million special rights, it is about $50m, although the title states that this is the first loan for the programme development of politics in the private and financial sectors. Nothing means this name to you, because now you're going to hear what the real background of this loan is. Before I read what the government wrote, they don't even give me the opportunity to lie, I'm just quoting them, I just want to draw your attention that this and last year when the 2006 budget was adopted, it's been said that all the funds are planned by the real budget, there's no deficit financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget and there's a terrible surplus. It's so big that the famous Lazar Paca for Mladjan Dinkic comes as an intern. Let me read to you what the government has written in an explanation of where this amendment of ours is being rejected. I'll start with this second sentence, because this first one doesn't reflect, it just introduces. It says – the loan is a support for the World Bank's budget for 2005-2007 and is aimed at implementing reform measures. Now I'm going to translate into what this "support of the Republic of Serbia" means. This means that the Republic of Serbia is in charge of its budget. This further means that there was a deficit in the budget, that the deficit was planned and the source from which these funds are covered is this loan, and that in translation means that someone cheated on us when we adopted the budget last November and when it was said – all the revenues are real, domestic, they're so big that even at the end of the year we'll have extra money so we don't know what to do with them, so we decided to pay back some debts from that surplus. That was in November 2005. Those of us who criticized, we've been humiliated, in the media we've been called primitive and simple, that we're liars. It's been less than five months, a government official on this agenda, for the sake of the public, I have to say that Mladjan Dinkic, he wrote, and he signed Miroljub Labus on behalf of the government, but it probably represents Mladjan Dinkic, as a representative, and this concerns only finance. To repeat this sentence again: "The credit represents support for the World Bank's budget for the period 2005-2007 and is aimed at implementing reform measures." All those who participate in the "who is lying" quiz, please come in, I am presenting evidence that Mladjan Dinkic has cheated on the public, cheated on the National Assembly, deceived viewers on TV last night. I'm just reading what he wrote and reminding me of what we talked about in November 2005, when the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget was adopted. I repeat: a terrible surplus has been established, real sources are said to exist, and real sources are taxes, customs, taxes, etc., so much will be accumulated at the end of 2006, that we will be able to repay some of the foreign debts and that the state of Serbia is not in debt due to budget spending. We have a confession here that the state is in charge of budget spending for the period 2005-2007. Just to remind you of the name of this law: the law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro by credit to the International Development Association; now the purpose of this loan – the first credit for the programme development of politics in the private and financial sectors. In the private sector, you can see that this is going for the budget. I know that Mr. Markovic is a great fighter for the truth and that he supports the efforts of the SRS to decrypt everything that is encrypted in the draft laws provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Markovic, please defend the National Assembly. When you read what the government wrote here, you can't tell a government official in the media that MPs are lying. We're just reading what's written and we've only got one little problem -- that reminds us what happened five months ago and what's today. The prize issue is very easy and easy to determine who is lying to both the Assembly and the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25672	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. There is no reason for me to defend the National Assembly differently, except by inviting people to read and interpret what they read. The National Assembly, you were absolutely right, voted in the 2006 budget and voted on the proposal to achieve a surplus in 2006. Also, if I understand correctly, the National Assembly will also vote counter-guarantee, which is allowed for the budget deficit, which the National Assembly found in 2005, among other things, to be covered, or as formally said in 2005-2007, and thus to allow the decision of the National Assembly to achieve a surplus in 2006. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25673	Mr. Markovic, just to remind you, when the 2006 budget was adopted, we were given a mini report, which found that in 2005 it was surplused from the point of view of the budget, so your intervention that this credit was needed to cover the deficit in 2005 does not stand. I must tell you that this government, when it began its mandate in 2004, then found, at the end of 2004, that the budget deficit was less than the deficit that was in 2003 during Zivkovic's government. Don't turn the facts around. According to Mladjan Dinkic, in 2005, we finished well, it was surplus. For 2006, it has been epochally announced that we can plan a much larger surplus, with the return of loans abroad. Don't misread my words that I've put out here, and the support for those words is in the National Assembly's stenograms and whoever said what. I've been waiting for Mr. Dinkic to discuss some things, because we've been attacked because we've challenged the existence of surpluses in the first place. But there are no heroes on the moon. We were just preparing to read what Mr. Dinkic here said and what the government wrote. So, count on the "who's lying" quiz still open, you can answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25674	Mr. Krasic, thank you for further clarification. Once again, I defend all MPs of the National Assembly by providing accurate information about what was voted on in the Assembly, not what was said in the platform of someone behind the pay phone, whether it was a representative of the promoter or a MP. As you know, that is why immunity exists, because it is not necessary to provide accurate information for the speaker, but rather to advocate a clear interpretation of the credentials, the Rules of Procedure said. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON DANIJING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE FINISH FUND ORGANISATION OF KFW ON THE DEBT OF JP "ELECTROPREVRED OF SERBIA" FOR THE FINISHED PROJECT FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE MIDDLE, SULejman Spaho, Paja Momchilov, Goran Cvetanović, Zlatko Radić and Tomislav Penezić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. If you agree we have a five-minute break, then let's move on. [[After a break.]] Thank you all for understanding. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25676	Ladies and gentlemen, after this brief break, the number of MPs in this room has been reduced even more and this is really getting alarming. We are talking about the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the mandate of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" to finance a project for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the surface spear "Tamnava - Western field". I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this bill, proposing that the member be deleted because he owes the Republic of Serbia 16m euros, i.e. the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle as a guarantee the obligations of the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivred Serbia, according to the German financial organisation KFW, amounting to 16m euros. Later on, I will return to this article and this amendment, waiting for Mr Krasic to come here asking a quiz question - who is lying. Here's my answer when it comes to everything you've been saying, Mr. Krasic - lies to Mladjan Dinkic. Last night, when he was so hermetically imprisoned in the studio, when he was quite sure that there was no one else in his vicinity besides the manager and camera, he dared to tell what he said: how we Serbian radicals lie, how he enjoys being criticized for this pay phone. I don't know why a man would deny himself such pleasure today, here he could enjoy all day, but he only seems to have that courage when he's being hermetically imprisoned and away from the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Mr Markovic, I suggest you ask the services to create another reserve synopsis for you; when we finish one item on the agenda it writes to you – whether the proposing representative wants to give you the final word, and let them also make a difference when the representative of Proposer Mladjan Dinkic is nice to say – since the representative of the promoter Mladjan Dinkic is not in the hall, there is no one on behalf of the Serbian Government that gives the final word to the MPs according to a specific proposal. I hope you accept this well-intentioned suggestion. A little while ago, there was some confusion here, some sort of cement store called Popovac. I'll explain, everyone knows, and so does Mr. Mita Avramov, who talked about it, like you, Mr. Markovic, and all of us, that the cement is Popovac in Paracino. But maybe all Serbian citizens don't know that the cement factory, whose privatisation is controversial, so here are the authorities that started to shed light on this controversial privatisation, so there's something called Kolesar, Janjusevic, and the citizens of Paracina say that they visit Ruzica Djindjic on a regular basis, at least once a month. In which she is there, what is her role, whether she collects as an heir to her privatisation of a dividend or what it is, I hope that it will also come out in the context of this process of detecting malversions in the privatisation of the Popovac cementery. Of course, unless it happens, as usual, that only the tip of the icy hill gets caught up and that when someone's name comes up this much louder to stop all the research and to forget in someone's drawer a certain object. I don't know if that's what's going to happen with today's arrests, or yesterday's. Of course, what we knew specifically and talked about Goran Kljajevic, I don't think there's anything vague about it anymore, but there's a lot that's connected to Goran Kljajevic, so we're really asking ourselves, right now, what is going to be the final outcome of this process. My first association when I heard that Goran Kljajevic was arrested was to arrest the heads of crisis headquarters, remember well, I think, and say – here is Goran Kljajevic, to prepare Mladjan Dinkic. I guess that's not the point. Then I thought maybe he was arrested for these controversial privatisations he took part in, which he also involved Labus in. It's not, I guess, either. He's really staying right now to see what the real reason is. Of course, I have no intention of prejudge, nor of meddling in the work of the competent authorities, but I really expect that we will come to some concrete, i.e. that the public of Serbia will be familiar with more details about this process, when the time comes, normally. I'm afraid and I don't want it to be just someone's personal revenge for some loose ends; then it really wouldn't be good and it would be the instrumentisation of the judicial authorities for political purposes, but I hope there are enough nuns and experts in the judicial authorities that they won't let anyone play with them that way. This amendment is a proposal to take Article 1. The bill is deleted, because we in the SRS don't think this law should be passed at all. First, because we don't need another 16m euros in credit. Secondly, because the Government here has written, among other things, in the reasons for the adoption of the law – according to the provisions of this Treaty, loans and financial assistance are to be used (if this is prescribed, something is very familiar, this seems to be when they wrote that agreement that we were talking about today, related to customs) exclusively for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the western mine of the Tamnava in order to realize the project, whose preparation and implementation is the obligation of the Public Enterprise of "Electroprivred Serbia", in accordance with the concession agreed with this Frankfurt firm. What's this about? What kind of concession is it, what is agreed on, what is the loan taken for, this is indeed extremely unclear, and then the government tells us – the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure are the issue of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia, so that the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" as a borrower and also the borrower, as soon as possible, will use funds on this loan. When the government explains why it does not accept this amendment, we have a fifth story; the government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law provides for a borrower, in particular the JP's "Electropriority of Serbia", obliges to provide funds for the repayment of the loan and for its own income, because otherwise, the Republic of Serbia would have a direct obligation to pay the loans, which would result in an additional burden on the budget. I really don't understand who's illiterate here, who's crazy here. The explanation for which the amendment is rejected speaks in favour of the need to accept the amendment. Really, did someone plant this on someone? He further says -- also, the funds of this loan will realise the modernisation of a specific segment of the Public Enterprise "Electro-priority of Serbia", which will speed up electricity production, with long-term positive effects. In my explanation, I said that this amendment should be adopted, because it is necessary to stop further government duties, we have already said this many times today, and its business entities, and indirectly all citizens of Serbia, because all of this is one day being returned by the citizens of Serbia. One of the conditions of borrowing for such financial institutions is the increase in electricity prices, which are becoming increasingly difficult for both the economy and the population, etc. Now, I guess there's an explanation why the current is almost re-accumulated, which is why we are still being announced by the addition and, of course, notice that since democracy has been imported into Serbia, and forgot those 6 billion on the other side of the border they promised Serbian citizens when democracy enters Serbia that these billions will also... So this so-called democracy has entered and from the arrival of this democracy to the day of today's current in Serbia has collected ten times, my people. And the economic situation, the social misery in Serbia is so drastic that normal people are really scared. And then the minister, who also arrived late yesterday, Radomir M. Naumov said, commented on Miroljub Labus' statement about the introduction of temporary measures, namely the disbanding of the Parliament of Novi Pazar Municipality, when Labus said the government's decision to disband the municipality of Novi Pazar was scandalous... Well, since you don't get it very well, it's because of you that I repeat this, but for the seventh time; I knew you slept over once, but now that you're filling the puzzle, you accidentally whispered this in your ear. And, for your information, I'm not talking to those who don't listen to what I'm saying here. So here again, for the eighth time: Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, said the scandalous decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia to disband the Parliament of the Novi Pazar municipality and then, as an immoral man, also signed such a government decision. Now that's really scandalous. If my colleague hasn't remembered, I can do it again. Is there a need? Well, then Mr. Naumov said, since the government is acting like horns in a bag, every village of bogeyman, everyone is holding on to their resor, and they're not in the process of what's going on in those other resors, one genius sentence, I quote, I copied it from the papers, "Nothing that the government decides can't be scandalous." Now, this is, I mean, the highlight of stupidity, especially when it comes to the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25677	Thank you. I'm referring you to the possibility of using stenograms; you have no reason to take a risk with incorrect papers, or accurate, anyway. Any other MPs? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25678	Mr. Markovic, we're going to speed this up a little bit, since we hope the quiz has succeeded, that we've solved the basic problem. Now, this is the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija" to finance a project for the purchase of mining equipment for the needs of the surface digger "Tamnava - Western Field". It's probably the most thoughtful part of the title of this bill -- the surface spear "The Dark - Western Field" and probably some excuse for modernization exists. I think that's where the truth ends. Anything else that stands should be forgotten. In order for it to be truly understood, without the need to repeat itself repeatedly, I will read what the Government wrote in its explanation of the bill. It gives a retrospective of what's been going on about the initiative that needs to be a modern surface spear. May I have your attention, please? "II. The reasons for the adoption of the law – namely, on the basis of the Protocol of 13 May 2003", means almost three more years in full, "the agreement between the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Government of the Republic of Serbia" means the Government of Zoran Zivkovic with the Government of Gerhard Schreder, "24 December 2003 concluded a loan and financing agreement between KFW, Frankfurt na Majna, and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" amounting to up to 25m euros, with KFW granting the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia" a loan that does not exceed 16m euros and financial assistance that does not exceed ninem euros. Under the provisions of this contract, loan and financial assistance funds are to be used exclusively for the purchase of mining equipment for the purposes of the Western Tamnava mine in order to implement the project, whose preparation and implementation are the obligation of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", in accordance with the concept agreed with KFW. The parties also provide details of the project, the purchase of goods and services to be provided in this way, based on export contracts to be concluded in relation to it. This contract, among other things, determines the amount of commission on the undrawn part of the loan, commissions on loan, interest and payment. "And now goes what the state did for this burazerish form of bargaining, or godfather's. "The law on the debt of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to the German financial institution KFW under the loan agreement and financing between the JP "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade, and KFW, Frankfurt in Main, concluded on 24 December 2003 in the Official Journal of the SCG, No. 7/05", which means at the beginning of 2005, "it is prescribed that Serbia-Montenegro is in charge of the German financial institution KFW in the amount of 16m euros and that the Republic of Serbia undertakes to issue a counter-guarantee agreement between KFW and JP on a regular basis for the timely payment of dues. "And that's what happened. Now let's skip this part where we repeat this same thing. However, the Duties Act was not acceptable to KFW. So, a financial organization in Germany can say that the Law of Duty is unacceptable to them. They do not accept what they previously agreed, they do not accept what the German government has spoken and agreed with the government of Zoran Zivkovic. It doesn't surprise me, the way he was, they did well and agreed to sit down and talk, but there was probably something going on. So, a financial organisation abroad can say -- what you do in Serbia, as a state, tie the cat to the tail, that doesn't oblige us. We're reading further, just because of that "who's lying" quiz: "However, the Law of Indemnity was not acceptable to KFW from the point of view of providing adequate state guarantees. "They doubt if it's the state that gave them the guarantee, the state community. We had to force the counter-guarantee here, and then the counter-guarantee was abolished, because KFW considers that neither the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia as a credit user, the state public company is sufficient to provide their future claims based on a financial loan, and even some nine million-euro donations, although it is seen that there are commissions and likely money laundering for the needs of someone from KFW. When all this is collected and taken away then we come into a situation that several months ago this National Assembly has put aside its counter-guarantee law and today the law that the Republic of Serbia guarantees for this financial loan and for this assistance is now offered; well, help is not guaranteed since it is a donation, but for this arrangement Serbia is now guaranteeing. So, it's not the state community guarantee that is accepted, but Serbia steps forward as an international legal entity, but not according to some state, but according to a simple financial organisation. What's the big deal? Because when such an arrangement is approached in the Assembly of the State Community and it is asked by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to pass a guarantee law, then, in the light of such a bill and in addition, an agreement signed, for which Serbia-Montenegro is guaranteed. Why am I saying this? Because an integral part of this bill had to be also this agreement that was concluded between the lender KFW and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda of Serbia", with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because you know that it cannot, under the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, each one to be in debt as he wishes, is already being asked by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So it takes some pretty big paperwork. We don't have that paperwork. We just have a bill, where Serbia guarantees that if Elektroprivreda Srbija does not serve a 16m-euro loan according to KFW, a lender from abroad can charge his claim by turning to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it will either from the budget or simply release a series of pages of surface copy "Tamnava - Western field", and this is the subject of the total co-production that was made with KFW, read it however you want, since some investment fund, there can also be some with "ic" at the end of the last name. You can see how the continuity of one action can be seen. He started in 2003, not to return to who was the Minister of Energy and Mining, but it is inevitable to say that the DOS is complete in this co-production. He has so devalued the position and importance of both the SRJ and the state unions and the Republic of Serbia that one investment fund from abroad, which is likely to be on lease to provide mining equipment and to achieve some benefits and strategic position in our Elektroprivredje, and this is the second or third law that we are considering today that has some touch points with the Elektroprivred Serbia. I'll remind you that three hours ago, we also talked about one law, so there was - Electric and Electrical Networks. There's something going on here, there's a big interest in the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia. As I said at the outset, probably in all this text, the truth is that there is some need to modernise the surface digging mechanism "The Dark - Western Field" and that ends with the truth, and this second one we can only infallibly predict what it is. One more thing, Mr. President, as an honest fighter for truth and justice, I must tell you that this bill came to the National Assembly on 24 March 2006, that it was proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. Just to remind you, Mr. President, that when the National Assembly passed the Counterguarantee Act, too, over this KFW, was also an emergency procedure. When the Law on the termination of the law on the granting of counterguarantee was passed, it was also an emergency procedure. And now I'm proposing an emergency procedure, and that's what's in the explanation, the reasons for the passing of the law by emergency procedure, and I have to tell you that the estimated effects of this law and that assessment are not at all in this bill, which means that probably the bill promoter didn't even make an analysis, and there's probably no study that would follow the justification of an investment like this, and he doesn't know what the effects are of this, because in fact he doesn't even care about the effects, the order came from the sides, the order has to be unspeakable, you're going to work a little bit to rebel, 126 there is, it's the greatest range of expertise. The reasons for the adoption of the law under an urgent procedure, inter alia, states that the conditions laid down in Article 161 have been met and that this stems from the fact that the condition for the withdrawal of funds under the German financial organisation's debt to 16m euros is to issue the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, so that "Electroprivred Serbia" as a borrower and also the borrower of the loan, as soon as he starts using funds on this loan. So the emergency procedure begins practically since the DOS came to power, activities 2003, 2004, 2005 and here again urgently in 2006. What can be said about what is only true in the title of the law, and this is probably some need for a surface digging of "The Tamnava - Western Field" for modernization – it is a classical commercial loan. Much larger amounts end in commercial arrangements. This is where the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia is sought, because Serbia should guarantee when there is a break-up of the Elektroprivreda and our system; the first person to put a sock on his head, in the form of KFW, must have a guaranteed advantage. Well, you're complicit in it. The radicals don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25679	Just to remind myself that this guarantee law, as well as several counter-guarantee laws, is included in the agenda by the votes of the MPs, because they are required by an urgent procedure, and as you know, an emergency request is decided solely by the motion. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25680	Asked only by a few engineers from the Dark - West Field to say something. So this arrangement has its own prehistory. I remind you that on October 3, 2000, in a report sent by the colonel, and now the late General of Bosko Buha, it was said that the situation was regularly in the Dark - West Field, and during that time a large number of people were physically incapacitating the Tamnava-West Field facility. Now let me not explain why, these are known events. It's one of the key events that preceded October 5th. There is a record of the damage caused, in connection with this event, which was then estimated at seven million marks. So later there was the conversion of money into euro. We will vote for this counter-guarantee because it is necessary for Serbia to have this facility in a condition necessary to provide everything Serbia needs when it comes to energy, but I am also obliged to say here and that it simply knows what the price is, does not slow down and does not engage in controversy with anyone about it. It was my duty, and I promised to say it, and I apologize, Mr. President, for misusing the amendment, I could have done it by the Rules of Procedure. So this arrangement has a prehistory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25681	Thank you. Thank you for your willingness to tell us the information you know. I was on October 4th, and I didn't know about that data, and I don't even know now if it's true, but you transmitted the data that you received. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlatko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25682	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW, under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to finance the Mining Development Project for the needs of the surface digger "Tamnava - Western Field". The proposed amendment requires the removal of Article 5 of this law, and for reasons that the SRS and I are not personally in favour of additional responsibility for the citizens of Serbia, because you have already over-indebted them and made their lives intolerable. We are in favour of modernising our beautiful Serbia and surface spear "The Tamnava - Western Field", but what you propose, that the EPS should be in charge of the new 16m euros, will directly affect the price of electricity paid by poorer citizens of Serbia who have long since had the funds for basic living needs. It's not the end, because you've already planned to sell these resources to your godfathers or godfathers who helped you to come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25683	Thank you very much, Mr. Radic. Anyone else by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept this amendment and the Government and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not read the opening part of your time, nor the whole member I have submitted the amendment to. In fact, I'm not going to quote the law, but I'm going to quote it. That's Article 6, and the law has five members. Believe me, my amendment is very logical. Assuming that all amendments will be accepted by the Government, its representative, then it is normal for it to accept this amendment to Article 6 which reads - is deleted, and Article 6 says like this: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia." The logic is, if everyone accepts to delete, then there's nothing to publish. It is also logical that what my predecessors have spoken, this law directly affects the standard of citizens. I'm undermining here, and I'm going to briefly quote that one of the conditions of borrowing is with these, says financial institutions and an increase in electricity prices that are becoming more difficult to support both the economy and the population. That's one quote, and I apologize for taking your time. But what do you recommend to citizens who are more difficult to live and who cannot pay for electricity? All I can say from here is, if I were some demagogue, like there were some who were in the government, and that's her very high-ranking officials from the South Strip, he recommended that his patent be taken and to get a barrel and to throw electricity bills, he says, in a barrel and not pay for electricity. But that's not what I'm saying from here on out or I'm thinking, because he said one pre-election lie, and I can't say it. I'm just saying that I'm sorry that citizens have to bear this much burden financially, paying high bills, and I'm sorry for the miners working in that mine that this is about. But borrowing is never good, who owes and suffers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-13-0.u25685	Thank you, Mr. Penezie. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. As I had just had to show the MP how much our country is, I also have to, unfortunately, to show you that your explanation doesn't make sense. In case the Government accepts any amendments you have proposed to delete, it is not disputed to remain this amendment. That's completely clear to you. So that would be a real logic. We're here to defend logic and facts. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPETENTS OF THE CODE LAW a report of the Legislative Committee has been adopted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law before I conclude the particulars search, I ask if the proposing representative wishes to give the final word, on the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint Monday 17 April 2006, at 10.00 p.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. To those who celebrate Easter on an international calendar, of course, on behalf of all of you, happy Easter. Of course, I hope you'll use until Monday to rest or help your fellow citizens defend themselves against the flood. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the start of the working day. There is no notice of the prevention of the MPs from attending the session. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, we will move on to a decision at 11.00 p.m., until then I am taking a break. Thank you.
