ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone to point out the two frightening things that happened in the meantime, concerning the MPs in the National Assembly, concerning the Serbian political scene, all of us, our states of Serbia and all our citizens. First, I will start with what is one parliamentary group, which is not present in the Serbian Parliament, because they are used by the Assembly to steal money from Serbian citizens, to collect salaries, pause and everything else, and do not come in because they are not interested in Serbian citizens. They did the next thing. In fact, after the vote in The Tower, it happened and I was amazed, you hear, it's a very important thing, I didn't accidentally go out for a pay phone, there's been a story that in a statement by the Serbian Radical Party someone was complaining, belittled, misjudged and condemned by the Russians, Hungarians and members of all national minorities for losing 1 or 2% of the vote in The Tower. They say that's what the Serbian Radical Party said in a statement. I better called the Serbian Radical Party in The Tower and asked me to get a statement and get it. In that statement, dear friends say, and I will only read to you the part concerning members of the national minorities, not to read to you this part about thieves from the Democratic Party. The man says the following thing: "Mr. Svetozar Bukic", and that's the one from the Democratic Party, "you need to understand that God sees everything, and the people don't forgive. Believe it won't go unpunished that you used our friends and neighbors, members of the national minorities to scare them with lies and intimidation with Serbian radicals. You proved that your client doesn't choose the means to get to the authorities, that you don't have a sense of country and that you don't care about the consequences of your struggle. The purchase of votes of money, the intimidation of our fellow citizens, members of other national minorities, by evicting from the municipality of Kula, by firing from work and torture of believers in churches, belongs to sick and miserable methods that pass only to those whose conscience is not clean and who do not want to live together in these areas." Ladies and gentlemen, this is a statement on which both the signature and the seal stand. What was distributed by the Democratic Party in The Tower has no signatures, no seals, no memos, nothing. They wrote paper. They could now write paper and send it in signature to say the Serbian Radical Party, Aleksandar Vukic today said he would be in a coalition with Albianic or with no one to announce it. People would know if I hadn't gone crazy, of course, but someone would have published it. I ask you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, is it possible that there are so many ruthless people in Serbia, so rude that for 180 degrees they turn to you the essence of your actual statement, and that after that when someone asks them, show that message to people, they send some paper without anything, wrote it themselves and typed it. Is that what we do? Are they the ones who want to preserve good relations between Serbian citizens? For the Serbian Radical Party, all Serbian citizens are the same, both Serbs and Hungarians and Ukrainians, Romanians and all others. We call on members of national minorities, their councils, their representatives to call on the Serbian Radical Party and will talk to them personally, the top of Serbian radicals, because we know that the Russians today live as poorly as the Hungarians, the Slovaks, the Romanians, as well as the Serbs do because they have thiefing power and because they have both the Democratic Party and all others headed by this country. There's one more thing I want to talk to you about, Mr. President, and please don't interrupt me for another two minutes. Yesterday, a newspaper released information, or title, saying, "Employees like maharadje". And by the way, I haven't even read that text. She called me, I didn't read it until I got the call, she called me on the phone by Natasa Jovanovic and said, "boss, did you read this?" I take it to read the text and see who accused Natasa Jovanovic of spending a day of 125, 126 euros per night at the Hotel "Moscow". She asks her mother Natasu Jovanovic, and she says: "Natasa, my entire pension is 11,000 dinars, and you spend 11,000 a night." Natasa Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you think of her as political opponents, is the image of honesty and modesty. She spent three nights at the Moscow Hotel in two years. What's so funny? You should be ashamed and ashamed. Probably because I showed you my finger. Natasa Jovanovic slept three times at the "Moscow" hotel for three thousand dinars in the cheapest room, which is less than a living room she would have received if she had traveled to Kragujevac, which is 4.480 dinars. Three times three thousand dinars, and they announced almost every day 11 grand. I ask you, honourable MPs, is there an end to these lies and bribes that some MPs make to representatives of other parties? Let's write that someone else is, let's do this one where Mom gives him something to justify what he spends or doesn't spend, they're yours. Natashi Jovanovic to say that, every second day of 125 euros, and she spent three times in two years in the cheapest room for three thousand dinars and that's like – Raje and maharaja. That kind of insolence, Mr. President, the indiscriminateness and rudeness of certain MPs from some parliamentary groups of authorities can understand just as much trust as they have with citizens as they find this ridiculous. I said this because I saw that Natasha Jovanovic wasn't funny, because there are those who love her, and there are those who don't love her. They love her radicals, they may not like her, but in Serbia everyone knows that Natasha never took anything from anyone, that she is absolutely honest and that she is one of the most modest MPs in this National Assembly. (President: Thank you. ) Thank you to me, but to tell you who the Rajes and the Maharajas are, since I was counting. (President: I counted on those two minutes you asked for, and it's been four. Be nice and get it over with. Just one example. I was in math. I don't really feel like someone else, I can't count on money, but I can count on tires. Only cars for the President of the Republic's car, with substitutes once a year for three cars, cost more than overnight 50 MPs on an annual basis. So much, ladies and gentlemen, about the rajamas and the maharajamas and their newspapers and their inventions. That's why we're going to win everything and change those things in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29031	According to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Predrag Mijailovic Luna has appeared because of the information necessary for the work of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29032	Ladies and gentlemen, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to say that the DS wants to retain power in every way and does not want to come down from power and will use even the blackest forgeries to remain in power in Serbia, and not only in The Tower, but also in Uzica. Imagine a fake that showed up yesterday at Uzica. It was sent to the citizens of Uzica, where roads are being made by the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay some bills or wars. It's an obvious lie, and I can say once again that DS is not ashamed of anything, not forgeries, not dirty statements, just to stay in power. It won't work for her either in Užica or in all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29033	Same according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29034	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, it has been an anniversary of tragic events in Srebrenica these days. Representatives of the Serbian state at different levels, and particularly representatives of NGOs, have strongly condemned these events, which we MPs are joining, as we believe absolutely all truths about the events in Srebrenica should be established. I am saying this because we have a situation for representatives of certain states of the international community representing international organisations to behave contrary to the views of the governments they have chosen, but above all because Serbia needs the truth. Interestingly, it remained out of the interest of representatives of the state who responded, especially NGOs, what was happening in Bratunac and other parts around Srebrenica. That's not interesting to them, and it should be. And that's part of the truth that Serbia needs. I'm talking about this for another reason. The Hague tribunal, believe it or not, placed the events in the village of Račak in the category of incidents that should not be investigated and found the truth by the end of January 1999, because it has no significance for The Hague tribunal. What kind of incident is this? I would remind you that, thanks to the OSCE's stance, the 1999 report, which was made together with UN tribunal officials, because few people know that OSCE reports also served The Hague's tribunal for writing charges, i.e. evidence of the Serbian people's guilt. Thanks to the OSCE, the event was then characterised in 1999 as the most severe violation of human rights, as proof that civilians in Serbia, or Kosovo and Metohija are ruthlessly killing, as members of another ethnic community, as proof that the international community finally realizes that Serbia must stand in the way by producing international intervention. The Hague tribunal said it was an incident after seven years, and that incident cost us 78 days and nights. The incident is because, meanwhile, at the trial of Slobodan Milosevic in carrying out evidence of Račka, they proved that at least 35 of the 41 dead members of the UCC terrorist organisation were killed. It has been proven that some of them, meanwhile, have been qualified by the Albanian community as freedom fighters and members of the UCC. I felt it was necessary to go out and mention these tragic events, but even more so to invite representatives of the Serbian state who speak so highly of one thing, to talk about the other and not to have Serbia in relation to Racak and similar ducks. We need the truth in Serbia because of Serbia's future, because we've already been found guilty of everything that's happened since the 1990s and so on, but when the truth is found then others will be found guilty. It's not about exorcising guilt, it's about the fact that we need the truth to take a step forward. This calls for condemning all events that occurred in the past, but also establishing the truth, double arches, and seeing how it is done in international organisations that judge Serbia and Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29035	All these were notices of importance for the work of the Members of the People, as referred to in Article 225. Now also a notification by the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29036	Your Honor, Mr. President, if I understand you correctly, the aim of these reports is to inform the MPs of something that is of importance to their work. I want to inform Mr Lunet Mijailovic, a famous MP who has been in the National Assembly for more than ten years, the truth in various political parties, but good. In any case, I want to inform him too, but I want to inform all of you that since March 2004, the Democratic Party has not been in power in Serbia, if you didn't know it, and you are trying to get it back in power. You supported the Democratic Party, and their so-called democratic candidate to be president of Serbia, and you also supported the mayor of Belgrade. Also, at the local level, you have co-operation with them, and there are our G17 colleagues who are trying to get the Democratic Party back into power. The Democratic Party in Serbia has power, has the President of the Republic, but you have, ladies and gentlemen who are in power, executive power, but you fear them, you cannot exercise power, and because you do not exercise power, it will come to your head. So, Mr. Mijailovic, don't complain to us here about the Democratic Party, but sit well in your party, and agree on how you will fight this party. You can't sit on two chairs. Identify yourselves. If you're going to co-operate with a party that wanted to arrest your president because she accused him of killing Djindjic, that he was encouraging the Zemun clan, that he was helping, if you're going to co-operate with a party that imposed a state of emergency and arrested more people than Pinoc, if you're going to co-operate with a party that voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki, and not from parliamentary benches, then it's your choice, don't be surprised what the Democratic Party is in power. I apologize, Mr. Mijailovic, I wanted to inform you that the Democrats have been out of power since March 2004.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29037	I am informing you, Mr. Dacic, that you have a common candidate in Uzic, you and Mr. Mijailovic. Replica, MP Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29038	Mr Dacic, I want to rephrase to you and tell you that I am fully informed that the Democratic Party is not in power, but is in power in Uzica and Belgrade and that now because of electoral silence, I will not mention the enjoyable power. I just wanted to say that the Democratic Party, whether in Uzica, Belgrade or any part where it holds power, does not choose funds and even forge documents to remain in power. As for Užica, when he comes to Užica to power the DSS with his coalition partners, he will surely file a criminal charges for this falsification that took place in Užica. Normally, the authorities will do what they have to do, because we are respected for being legalists. We are legalists, and that's how we're gonna do it, and the authorities are gonna do it, and we're gonna win the election for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29039	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ambassador Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to say that it wouldn't turn out that we're all on the same side, I really think there's a lot of abuse by the Serbian government in local campaigns, but I'm not going to tell you any more so we don't get into that story. I went out to inform you of a few things, since you didn't have a chance, regardless of the presence of a huge number of media, and so I ask the government, I ask the President of the Assembly, how is it possible to see something on our televisions or that there's a photo in our newspaper? In fact, yesterday, Tomislav Nikolic spoke with other representatives of the SRS, at the request of the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here at the National Assembly. There were 12 cameras present, a statement was sent, several photographers. The public service of European Serbia, as you call it, is a little tragically, has not published a single word on it in the shock log. Those who keep accusing us of not being able to talk, or seeing any of the significant personalities, why are they hiding it? And when you received them, Mr. President of the National Assembly, everyone in their information shows had it. When they are accepted by representatives of Serbia's largest political party, then it seems not news. I find that strange, and so I ask if there's any influence from the government. To make the matter more interesting, how the public service of European Serbia abuses it. They release Tom Nikolic's statement, why it is against the president's election in the direct elections, why we are to choose in parliament. I'll explain it to you legally. When you have the buffalo executive power, the president and the Serbian government and the poor system, brakes and balance, where you don't know what the actual powers of the president are, and it springs his enormous power from the fact that he was elected in the direct elections, you come into permanent problems, as we come today, and they release a statement from the representatives so-called. The thief's bloc and the Democratic Party who say, no less, no more than – these are the frustrations of radicals because they fear the presidential elections. So as not to remain unsaid, because I don't trust the electronic media in Serbia, here's the next thing I'm offering, to be heard by citizens of Serbia. May Raja-maharaja Boris Tadic resign today to go to the presidential elections tomorrow. That's before the Constitution. We want the presidential elections as well as the parliamentary elections, as well as each other. It's all in Tadic's hand. Maharadja Tadic resigns and we have both presidential and parliamentary and regional elections, only to leave her chair. I invite him to do it, if he's already looking for elections in September or October, to go to elections at all levels, not maharajah to stay, and you've stayed in the election for these others, and me you've chosen, you've chosen me forever. So, Mr. President, in this country there must be no rye and maharajah, but if we go to the elections, then everyone will go to the elections, and then they will see what complexes and frustrations they will get from the presidential, parliamentary, rural and local elections, and then some other institutions are waiting for them after the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29041	You know, and you don't need an answer, that I always call the election within the legal period and in time, as soon as the conditions are met. Therefore, there is no need to doubt. The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, was requested by Ambassador Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29042	Just to fill in my dear colleague Lunet. There's nothing strange or new about it. The DS has been dealing with counterfeits for years in all campaigns. No wonder their election headquarters are run by Gilas and Sutanovac. They don't know anything else, they don't know how to campaign or how to campaign. They did it in Smederev, so they lost, they did it in Kovin a few days ago, so they lost, they did it in Vienna, so in Raznje, they lost 70 percent, they lost 70 percent, they lost in the King, they lost in Uzic. I could stand here for another half hour and count. On the other hand, it is not clear to me that our political analysts have often written in the paper that local elections have nothing to do with what would be at the republican level. Something seems to me like a fake DS again, because there wouldn't be this much noise in this House, an hour we've been talking about it, instead of joining the vote, so that doesn't surprise me at all. I was surprised by something from my friend, Mr. Hansel Dacic. Mr. Dacicu, it's not like he's sitting on two chairs or that there are only two chairs in Serbia. We at the DSS have always been against it and against the story of Serbia's split into two parts. Serbia is one and has more political options in it. The DSS has its own path, its own program, and it is never necessary to define which chair or whether it will go left or right, or worse, that the DSS should adapt to someone who is more political at the moment. It's always smaller and weaker to the bigger one. In principle, the chair has a lot, for each of us there are seats, two certainly are and there is no need to talk to each other that way, but to do what we do here, and God gave us a vote of at least six or seven hours. I would ask all MPs, it is known who wins the local elections, to go to the polls, and I would ask MPs of the parliamentary majority to put in cards and take care of their cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29043	Replica. Please don't, I can say that there are 12 chairs, it can also be made a novel and it's very funny, but let's not discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29044	This is about misreading. Mr. Shormaz is at least a man I can't blame for having a favored relationship with DS. It's not that. I'm just saying the essentials. I don't think that this government, primarily the DSS, is doing what should be done, or that the remains of the former government have been kept to this day. You don't have to ask me, ask your MPs if it's true or not. Ask your MPs whether it is true that in health care, education, in other institutions, in justice, in chambers of commerce, in all others, are there Democrats or are representatives of a state that is characterized by the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about those chairs. You can't name the advice of a college without having DS members in it. Did she win the last election? As for G17 plus, I say it openly and I've said it multiple times, G17, that's my advice to them, will disappear from the political scene if he cooperates with DS. The G17 can only survive if it is sharper to the DS than we and the SRS, because the electoral body is similar. You go to your political suicide because you co-operate with Kostunica, and you seek support and alliance with the DS. If you're sitting on two or three chairs, it doesn't matter. It just matters what you did to the last government. It can't be the warden of the prison that Ceda Jovanovic visited the Zemun clan in prison without the fault of Ceda Jovanovic himself. There is no action against him, and he is against Blanusha. Is it possible that there is not a closed "Kolesar-Janjusevic" affair that has taken money from the privatisation of the cement factory yet? What about the Airport affair? What about the other stuff? Bodrum has now been ruled, they say Alan Selimovic is in charge. The president of the parliamentary club at the time was Bojan Pajtic. Now that boy remembered that he'd figure out how to do it himself. Don't be ridiculous. So, the Democrats wanted to hang us, kill us, shoot them, and you put them in power and support them. If I'm wrong, you from the DSS sitting here, let me know. If I'm right, you don't have to in front of everyone, tell me in the hallway that I'm right. I think I'm 100% right and you resent yourself for tolerateing the remains of the former government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-14-0.u29045	So that I don't get the wrong idea that there's such a desire for debate, that during August, we should organise sessions, please move on to work. We've reached a vote on the first item of the agenda, but before that, so we can start the vote, please check if there's a voting quorum. I ask all MPs to insert their MP cards. I find that a 128 card has been inserted into the hall in due time, which means we have 128 MPs present and we can start voting. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Civilian Income Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. For 128, he did not vote one out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of the Committee on Finance to Article 1 for the addition of a new member of 2a, to the members: 8, 9, 21, 26 and 29, to the addition of new members of 29a and 29b and to the addition of a new member of 35a, adopted by the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, as well as amendments by the MPs Hranislav Peric to members 6 and Miloljub Albianic to members: 9, 23, 33 and 37, who have been accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 111, it was not 16 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 19 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, it did not vote 20 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 22 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 23 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, they did not vote 22 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Mitrovica has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, they did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Milosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 33 of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Simonovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, they did not vote 34 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, they did not vote 33, out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 94, 35 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Against 94, it did not vote 36 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 36 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. For 128, against one, he did not vote one out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Obligations of Social Security, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. For 124, against one, not five, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that the Government has accepted the amendments and that the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, so that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become an amendment to the Committee on Finance: an amendment which is proposed to add Article 12a and an amendment that is proposed to be added to Article 16a after Article 16. Also, an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of National MP Miloljub Albianic to Article 18, which was accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 25 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 32 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 26 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragutin Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Radic Ilic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Stefan Zankov submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zivan Vladimirovic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 13a be added after article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be obtained. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 33 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was filed by Ambassador Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be obtained. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. For 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks and other teaching means Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and other teaching means, in principle. Three of the 129 MPs did not vote for 126. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks and other teaching means, in general. Three of the 129 MPs did not vote for 126. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks and other teaching means. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the RADIFFUSION LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Law on Broadcasting, in principle. For 94, against 27, it did not vote 7, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put the draft law amending the Law on Broadcasting, in general. For 97, against 28, four out of 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill amending the Law on Broadcasting. We move on to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Payments of State Officials and PUBLICATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft bill on salaries of civil servants and deputies, in principle. Three of the 129 MPs did not vote for 126. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare on the legal and technical order of the text of the draft law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, carried out by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a legal and technical editorial of the text of the draft law on salaries of civil servants and deputies. I am voting on the legal-technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee. For 124, four of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee. We move to a decision on amendments, reminding you that during the review of the draft law in particular, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic withdrew the amendment to Article 53. It's a bill of law. The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 101, was not voted 28 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 24 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted the title above Article 7 of the amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 33, out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Predrag Markovic. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 19, three abstentions, 99 did not vote, out of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 29 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Vjerica Radet. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 13th Amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 97, 30 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 23 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Hranislav Peric. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 97, 16 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 102, 25 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 100, 27 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 99, was not voted 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 74, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 94, 18 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 29 of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Predrag Markovic. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 11, the two abstentions, did not vote 106, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 97, 17 of the 134 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 99, there were 14 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 97, 31 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft bill on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, as a whole. Seven out of 129 MPs didn't vote for 122. The National Assembly passed a bill on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC CARD After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the ID bill, in principle. For 119, it was not 11 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of the Defence and Security Committee to the members: 2, 3, 10 and 22 and to the addition of a new title and new Article 31a, adopted by the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Security Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Security Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Security Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 15 and all other members mentioning the word "minister", the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 37, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, 29 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, he did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, it did not vote 32, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, it did not vote 30 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the ID bill, in general. For 120, it did not vote 9, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a ID bill. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICIAL LAND Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on agricultural land to the vote, in principle. For 124, 22 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that MP Mika Vlaovic, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, withdrew amendments to Articles 27 and 85, and in the course of a review of the Bills in particular, withdrew amendments to Article 28, with correction and Article 48, with corrections. National MP Arsen Kurjački, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, withdrew amendments to Articles 64 and 80. Since the Government has adopted amendments of the Committee on Agriculture to members: 25, 26, 28 and 85 and the amendment proposed to add a new member of 60a after Article 60a, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, I find these amendments to become an integral part of the draft law. Since the amendments of the People's MPs have been accepted by the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, I find that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become also an amendment of the People's MPs: Mike Vlaovic to members 2, 16 and 58; Arsena Kurjakko to members 16 and 21; Milorad Krstina to Article 23; Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 26; Stojan Cvetkovic to Article 16, as well as the amendment of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina to Article 70. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarević and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 100, 15 out of 184 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government accepted the amendment, the Committee on Agriculture did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against 16, the vote was not 62, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. (President: Vojislav Mihailovic. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60 against 107, it did not vote 18 out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 106, they did not vote 23 out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The amendment was adopted during the review of the draft law in particular by the proposing representative. The Committee on Agriculture has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 147 against 17, the abstention of three, did not vote 19, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Prvoslav Savic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 106, he did not vote 21 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 100, there was no vote of 10, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 94, 17 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Masic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 60a be added after article 60a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 97, 30 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 94, there was no 18 vote, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 61st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lazar Cavic and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 99, he did not vote 31, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Zivorad Smiljanic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 63a be added after article 63a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 94, did not vote 13, out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to the 64th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 96, 89 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 96, there were no 38 votes, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 66a be added after article 66a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 88 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 105, 27 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 89, there was no vote of 43, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 71st amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The amendment was adopted during the review of the draft law in particular by the proposing representative. The Committee on Agriculture has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was no 13 vote for 177, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Hranislav Peric submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above members 72 and members 72. The amendment was adopted during the review of the draft law in particular by the proposing representative. The Committee on Agriculture has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 159 against 13, it did not vote 18 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 97, it did not vote 18 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 73a be added after article 73a. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For two, against 102, 86 of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that Chapter VII and Art. 78th and 79th, they're wiped out. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. For 62, against 96, it did not vote 32, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The AP assembly submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 84 be added after article 84. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, it did not vote 84 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on a bill on agricultural land, in general. For 121 against 59, it did not vote 10 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on agricultural land. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE ORGANISAL PRODUCTION AND ORGANISAL PRODUCTS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a bill on organic production and organic products in principle. For 121 against 59, it did not vote 9 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendment, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 146(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an untimely amendment to Article 10. The bill was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, I conclude that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Zoran Mašić to Article 4, Milorad Krstin to Article 17, Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 18 and Lazar Cavic to Article 37. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 99, two of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a bill on organic production and organic products in general. For 120, it did not vote 65 out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law on organic production and organic products. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE FINANCE OF LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on the financing of local self-government in principle. For 99, it did not vote 45 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the MPs Branislav Stevanovic to Article 12 and Sredo Mihajlov to a member of the 54 that were accepted by the Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 98, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 93, it did not vote 19 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 97, he did not vote 31, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The National MP Mita Avramov submitted to the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 37 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 92, 36 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Two, against 95, were not voted 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Stevovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 95, it was not 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 86, it did not vote 42 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 93, there were no 34 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 89, 38 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 84, there were no 44 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Rankic.. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 95, there were no 34 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stojan Tintor. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, it did not vote 40 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 88, there were no 41 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to members of 33 and other members showing up. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 91, 37 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, it did not vote 43, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Hranislav Peric submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 86, 27 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 92, 21 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 41, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 83, there was no vote of 46, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 87, 29 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 39 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Hranislav Peric submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 85, 30 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 93, there was no vote of 26, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Goran Rakovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, it did not vote 43, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 90, 39 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 90, 36 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On behalf of Section 3, the title above Article 50 and Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 35 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 97, 30 of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government did not accept the amendment, the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 89, it did not vote 24 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 92, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 90, there was no vote of 23, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, it did not vote 40 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 89, was not voted 40 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 91, it did not vote 19 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 54 and article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 88, 34 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 94, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 93, there were no 34 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 94, there were no 34 votes, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, it did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the financing of local self-government in general. For 121 against one, it did not vote 7, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on the financing of local self-government. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a FREE ZONE LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the Free Zone Bill to the vote, in principle. For 119, 10 of the 129 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I find that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 36 after the Government has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 81, it did not vote 48 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 81, it did not vote 48 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 86, it did not vote 43 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 84, it did not vote 45 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, it did not vote 42 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, it did not vote 42 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, it did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 37, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 34 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against the 90s, there were no 38 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 40, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 91, was not voted 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Milan Stevovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 88, 39 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 90, 37 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 93, was not voted 35 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 88, was not voted 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 90, 38 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 86, it did not vote 43 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 40 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 26th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 86, he did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 90, 30 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 92, 35 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 90, 37 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 87, it did not vote 42 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 33. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 85, it did not vote 44 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 94, it did not vote 35 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 81, it did not vote 48 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, 39 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. A member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 86, it did not vote 43 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 84, 43 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 82, it did not vote 47 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, they did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Bozidar Koprivica has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 38 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 97, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, they did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Tomislav Penezic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, it did not vote 39 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Free Zone Bill, in general. For 122, six out of 128 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly passed a bill on free zones. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE BUSINESS LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular we move to decision-making. I put the draft foreign exchange law to the vote in principle. For 118, it did not vote 10 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision. Before we move to a decision on amendments, the National Assembly should be made aware of the legal and technical redistribution of the text of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. I put to the vote a legal-technical editorial of the text of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote for 112. The National Assembly adopted a legal-technical editorial of the text of the draft law implemented by the Legislative Committee. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, they did not vote 34 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, 39 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 36 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 90, 39 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 88, he did not vote 41 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 85, he did not vote 41 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 88, 39 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 83, it did not vote 45 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 87, 40 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 85, 39 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 93, there were no 34 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 94, 33 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 89, there were no 38 votes, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 93, it did not vote 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 88, 39 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 86, he did not vote 41 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft foreign exchange law in general. For 119, 10 of the 129 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly passed a draft foreign exchange law. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF PATITUAL TRANSPORT LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments, in principle. For 119, 10 of the 129 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Zoran Antic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 96, they did not vote 32 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 99, it did not vote 30 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments, in general. For 124, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill supplementing the Law on Payments. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON ENDING OF TRANSPORT LAW IN DRUMS COOPERATION As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Transport Act in road transport, in principle. Seven out of 129 MPs didn't vote for 122. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 104, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 93, was not voted 35 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 95, 30 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 92, it did not vote 36 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Branislav Stevanovic and Vjerica Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 91, it did not vote 37, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Branislav Stevanovic and Aleksandar Djordjevic submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 92, was not voted 35 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 32 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on transport in road transport, in general. For 120, against one, did not vote 7, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly passed the draft law supplementing the Transport Act in road transport. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on ratification of the Treaty on the founding of the Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Interim Mission of the United Nations in accordance with Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations since the National Assembly carried out a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. For 119, 10 of the 129 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 100, it did not vote 28 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 96, 31 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 95, it did not vote 33 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 96, it did not vote 32 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. For 110, with one abstention, 17 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a bill on ratification of the Treaty establishing an Energy Community between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the International Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. We move to point 15: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (REHABILITATION OF THE HYDROELECTRANE BAIŠTA) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant Rehabilitation) in principle. For 118, it did not vote 10 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 102, 26 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (Rehabilitation of the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant) in general. For 123, five of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German financial organisation KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (Rehabilitation of Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant). We move on to point 17: – Proposal for a Law on the Interruption of Important Laws on the founding of the News and Issues of the "Brothership" Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the establishment of the "Brothership" Press Institute for 125 did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Establishment of a Press-Publishing Institute "Brothership" in general. Seven out of 129 MPs didn't vote for 122. The National Assembly adopted the draft Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Association Press-Publishing Institute. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE IN SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the Report, with a proposal for a measure, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the report on the work of the Study Committee educated to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, with a proposal for a measure. For 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the report on the work of the Study Committee educated to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, with a proposal for a measure. Dear MPs, you have done another historic act for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism by considering the report of a polling committee at the Serbian Parliament, which was adopted with a draft measure. That's never happened before. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – CHOICE OF LAWAL FUNCTIONS. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. Since the MP has challenged a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the motion for a decision on the election of judges, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Jasmina Jovovic for the judge of the District Court in Nis, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic. For 107, against 20, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has chosen Jasmina Jovovic as judge of the District Court in Nis. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice to elect Tatjana Ilic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as the judge of the Municipal Court in Sapac. For 105, against 20, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has chosen Tatjana Ilic as the municipal court judge in Šapec. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of judges, without the contested proposals, which the National Assembly has previously declared. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. The National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, without contested proposals, which the National Assembly had previously declared. We move to a decision on the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor. I note that MP Vojkan Tomic has challenged the candidacy of Nebojsa Budic for public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, but since this is the only candidate in the motion for a decision, the National Assembly in that case, in accordance with Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, it only decides on a proposal for a decision in general. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor. For 18, against 25, abstentions 8, 78 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not adopt a draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor. We move to a decision on the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. Since MPs have challenged a number of proposals from the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 179(4). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates, decides individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general, by public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Stas Simic as deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Vojkan Tomic. For 99, abstentions, six were not voted 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Staša Simic as deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Mihailo Zecevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as deputy public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. For 104 against 20, a abstentioned one did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Mihail Zecevic as deputy public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jovan Milanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. For 103 against 20, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Jovanovic Milanovic as deputy public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Amidzic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Vrbas. For 102 against 20, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Aleksandar Amidzic as deputy public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Vrbas. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Petrovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Toma Busetic, as deputy public prosecutor at the Jagodina District Public Prosecutor's Office. For 101, against 20, there was no vote of 8 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Aleksandar Petrovic as deputy public prosecutor at the Jagodina District Public Prosecutor's Office. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals in the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, without the contested proposals, which the National Assembly has previously declared. For 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a draft decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. Since we have come to terms with all the suggestions, allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the holders of judicial functions in the election and wish for success in the work. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provision of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Miloljub Albianic, at a session on 8 June 2006 at 11.20 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, done by MP Zoran Krasic at a session on 6 June 2006. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 40, against 54, it did not vote 33, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Miloljub Albianic, at a session on 8 June 2006 at 11.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, done by MP Aleksandar Vukic at a session on 8 June 2006. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 38, against 59, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Branislav Jankovic, at a session on 14 June 2006 at 14.15 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, made by the proposing representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister for Capital Investments. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 91, it did not vote 36 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on June 14th, 2006 at 15:30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, made by the proposing representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister for Capital Investments. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one against 96, 29 of the 126 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Speaker Zoran Angelkovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, at a session on June 14th, 2006 at 15.35h, said he had injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by not warning the representative of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments and MP Vjeric Radet that the exhibitions did not allow the use of offensive expressions. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has injured the Rules of Procedure. Against 118, it did not vote 9 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly decided that the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, did not harm the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branislav Jankovic, at a session on 14 June 2006, at 15.36 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, made by the proposing representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister for Capital Investments. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 97, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Stevica Dedjanski, at a session on June 14th 2006, at 15.45 p.m., indicated that a representative of the proposing Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, violated the dignity of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 98, it did not vote 28 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly decided that the Rules of Procedure had not been injured. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 14 June 2006, at 15.48 p.m., indicated that President Zoran Angelkovic, vice president of the National Assembly, injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For two, against 97, 27 of the 126 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 14 June 2006, at 15.59 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, done by the proposing representative Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, and the violation of Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, made by the chairman of Zoran Angelkovic, vice-president of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one against 108, 17 of the 126 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 14 June 2006, at 18:20 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly was injured by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one against 101, it was not 24 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. First, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. In accordance with Rule 225, I am giving you information that is important for the work of the Members of Parliament. First notice, in five minutes, when I sign, we will come to the fact that this assembly of the National Assembly has passed 255 laws and the first report of the Committee of Auditors. When everyone starts to spend their lives, the citizens will live much better, and we've done our part of the work. Secondly, at 16.30 p.m., there was a continuation of the session of the Administrative Committee which interrupted its work. If the Administrative Board makes a decision proposed by the signatures of the MPs, a brief session will be scheduled, likely for Tuesday morning. If no decision is made, of course, it will not, but 99%, since it is a technical matter, allows the preparations to change the Rules of Procedure and everything else necessary. So, probably Tuesday, one short session, and then, when it's over, as you know from earlier, several months ago, from July 20th to August 20th, there won't be a session of the Assembly. Of course, there will be committees and all other jobs. In that case, after this brief session, to know about your duties, you will not meet until after August 20th at the next session. Thank you for your responsibility.
