ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28558	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Blagica Kostic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on ORGAN PRODUCTION AND ORGANISAL PRODUCTS (specifics) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Mašić, Ivan Radić, Milorad Krstin, Vitomir Plužarevic and Lazar Cavic. National MP Branislav Stevanovic submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a Law on 9 June 2006, following the deadline for the submission of amendments set out in Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to briefly explain the amendment submitted by Mr Ivan Radic to Article 5. Article 5 defines that organic production incentives in the Republic of Serbia's budget provide incentive measures for the development and improvement of organic production as budgetary means, then as grants from other sources, in accordance with the law. Furthermore, the proposal for this law states that the right to use the incentive funds referred to in Article 1 shall have agricultural holdings, or parts thereof entered in the Register of Agricultural Lands, in accordance with the regulations governing the registration of agricultural land. The essence of the amendment submitted by Mr Radić is that the right to use the incentive funds under Article 1 of this Article shall have agricultural holdings, i.e. their parts dealing with organic production. Our principle proposal is that even through this law, registered agricultural holdings are not favoured, because the government's reasoning states that, according to official records, 256.659 agricultural landholds were registered in the Register on 1 June 2006. According to statistics conducted by the Republic Statistics Institute, there are close to 700,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia. The agriculture ministry disputes the data and believes there are fewer, but the most harsh estimates, i.e. the assessment given by the Ministry of Agriculture, are moving at about 500,000 agricultural holdings. So, compared to official data, it can again be found that more than 50% of the agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia have been registered. It is really inadmissible and totally unconstitutional that these laws, as well as the Agricultural Land Act, are favoured primarily by registered agricultural holdings. I must regret to say that there is no mandated proposal here, and I regret to say that this debate is not attended by the new minister, Mr. Goran Zivkov. I think that today would be an opportunity for him, as the new minister, to go out for a pay phone and invite all unregistered agricultural holdings, all agricultural producers who are not registered, to do so, because they will have certain benefits, especially those provided through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns incentive measures, primarily short-term loans and long-term ones. It is precisely us in the SRS who resented you that this initiative, which we also support, you do not promote in the right way, and for these reasons there is still a certain concern among agricultural producers that by registering countries will use it for some of their own purposes, above all to increase the cadastrian tax or tax on other forms of property in agricultural production, so I simply cannot understand when discussing such laws, where it is an opportunity for someone who runs the Ministry of Agriculture to come out and publicly from this pay phone call once again on agricultural producers to register their agricultural holdings, not to use it. Organic agricultural production requires certainly incentive funds and we support what is defined in Article 5 to provide these incentives through both the budget and the form of donations or from some other sources, because I underline once again that this is expensive production and that it cannot be implemented in a more massive amount if there are no additional funds, i.e. A small number of agricultural holdings and agricultural producers may enter this production through their own resources. It is true that the products are derived from organic agricultural production on the world market far more expensive than so-called. conventional products, but again, I underline that it is unacceptable to favour in this situation and with such facts as are presented here again and only those registered and not to promote this initiative and this regulation in the right way by the Ministry of Agriculture. The conditions for organic agricultural production are primarily rural parts and not sufficiently agriculturally developed, because where agriculture is developed, where chemical agents are used to protect from weeds or in terms of growth and plant development must pass a certain preparatory period to create conditions for organic production. However, in hill-mounted areas and areas where no chemical resources are applied in plant production, also where certain indigenous cattle races are present, which are mostly less developed areas with smaller land holdings, are mainly agricultural producers that have not registered their holdings. I am convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture has just such knowledge, but still insists that the achievement of stimulation for this form and type of production is once again given only to registered agricultural holdings. I am convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture has just such knowledge, but still insists that the achievement of stimulation for this form and type of production only gives registered agricultural holdings. I appeal again, but I am aware that there is no one here to accept, possibly, our request and appeal, that this amendment be accepted in the form and form that is proposed, because it will not significantly violate the essence of the right to use incentivising funds to have agricultural holdings, that is, their parts that primarily deal with this organic production. Given that there is no one by the promoter, I think it is illusory to appeal to anything, so I only pray that in the day of the vote I will possibly support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28560	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards this amendment to Article 5(2), where the amendment's proposer is trying to provide incentives from the Republic of Serbia's budget, I do not think it would be correct, given that incentives from the budget relate exclusively and mainly to agricultural policy measures and relate to registered agricultural producers. I agree with my colleague that today we do not know exactly how many agricultural holdings we have in the Republic of Serbia. According to statistics, I agree that it is 700,000, but some data suggest that over 60% of Serbia's agricultural holdings are registered in the Republic of Serbia. It's a process that lasts. You remember when the registration of agricultural holdings started and it is a process that is inevitable and in all countries in the environment and it is logical that agricultural holdings dealing with agricultural production as their primary activity are registered. It is quite logical that the funds allocated from the budget for implementing the agricultural policy measures apply to registered farmers. There have been many words for this speaker, and there is an attempt to sow fear that something terrible will happen to that farmer who is being registered. Of course, it is known that in 2004, 2005, 2006, and for 2007, there will be no income tax, and for several years farmers have not paid that tax. Of course organic production – production of the future and in any case needs to find a place to stimulate, or to subsidise from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is a product that is expensive and this production cannot be done by those who do not know all the necessary knowledge and for these people it is not disputed to register their ownership. Therefore, I believe that the solution proposed in the law is better than the solution proposed by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28562	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the representatives of the Ministry, I am still putting my mind on the matter of this amendment, above all, on the day of the vote. So, we don't have any dilemma about us from the SPS, and I believe the SRS gentlemen who proposed this amendment, that registration of agricultural households is something that is needed, something that is present in Europe, which is known, etc. I've got a little dilemma and a little thinking for this law. It's not possible, not a lot of households will be involved in this organic production. The conditions are limited for someone to be involved in organic production. We will not be able to obtain only registered agricultural households through the protection of incentives, and through the application of this law we radically make a turn in terms of the registration of agricultural land. We should work on it, and this assembly and we MPs who are from this area and at the level of the locals should encourage it. I'm just going to say the experience from Smederev. As part of the budget, we have made a decision for this year, and the Agricultural Fund has existed since 1995, and the condition for people to get that for this year is that the decision to make 2.5% of the total budget is that so-called. the minimum agrarian municipal budget. The only condition is that agricultural holdings are registered, so we don't have any dilemma. I have a dilemma here that perhaps this production that is important and important for Serbia's agriculture, which will not be mass, will not be engaged in it I don't know how many households. I think this measure can even hold back a little bit in some way something that I think is important for Serbia's agriculture, means working on that organic production. We simply have a dilemma about it, we need to think about it, we absolutely support the position and measures of the government and the laws that are proposed to be registered agricultural households, but here we have a small dilemma, because I think that a very small number of households will meet the rigorous conditions of organic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28564	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28565	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there is no need to debate this amendment. I know the good soul of a farmer since I've been a farmer myself since I was a child, and today I do, and both my sons are farmers. There's always a farmer who's a non-believer of everything that's new in society. It was also according to the registration of farmers, and whoever was afraid of registering will be even more afraid of having to plant it with organic production, which, to be clear, in law and me to the end is not clear, because it is approximately not regulated what further, who will buy it, whether our domestic market can pay for it or not, because citizens are financially weak, so it is not fully organised to start tomorrow. I would take advantage of the opportunity, when it comes to registration, to say that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture have really missed a lot that is not mass on television shows, in the press, to the home address of farmers, to anyone who has these benefits. They're not big, but they are. First, it would be necessary for all agricultural households to be registered as by March the month determines what will be sown in the fields. Thus, in any case, the state has an idea of how many crops were sown, whether there will be a shortage for some agricultural product, so it will have to think about imports, whether there will be a lot of products and think about exports, as well as old farmers who are engaged in agriculture have some advantages if they register households. When they rent the land they get 50 euros per hectare, and if they give the farmer under 40 years of age or if it's farm to field, they get 100 euros, they get 100 liters of fuel, it's not a lot of 16 dinars, but it's 1,600 dinars per hectare. And they can as non-commercial holdings if they are retired for ten years and are over 55 years old and do not intend to continue to deal with agriculture, to get the same per hectare of 100 euros, so that there are some benefits, and what farmers are afraid of, they should not be afraid. At that moment, if the person registered is taxed, the other cannot remain unregistered, he will have to register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28566	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Lazar Cavic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The governments of the Committee on Agriculture have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the bill's proposal in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure for the fact that newly elected Minister Goran Zivkov, Minister of Agriculture, has not been referred to the work of the National Assembly and has not answered my parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or has not respected the other fellow Members of the People's Parliament from the SRS and from the ruling structures, because I have received an answer from him the day after he was appointed. Namely, I have asked the former Minister of Agriculture, and I have asked the current Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic in the course of discussions on these laws, in principle, certain issues related to the robbery and tycunisation of PIK "Oplenac" Topola, the Institute for Slust Cereals in Kragujevac and the compensation for the damage caused by agricultural crops in the area of the town of Kragujevac. Last year, July 9th, during the unrecorded in our area of elemental disasters, he wanted to be zealous and likely to say that he justified his choice by making an immediate return-to-record reply to the MPs. He was chosen the day before he sent me an answer to the parliamentary questions and he didn't know first, he didn't satisfy the form with his answers, he wanted through the answers to all three parliamentary questions to avoid responsibility and his personal now and former Minister Ivana Dulic, for all the problems I listed. He transferred responsibility to other ministries, meaning to his coalition partners from the government, and most importantly, you didn't teach him at the very beginning that the ministry addressed to the name of the MP who asked the question, in this case on my behalf, did not answer that way. To me, the answers to the parliamentary questions should be provided by the National Assembly, namely that these questions, i.e. the answers, are photocopied for all 250 MPs. At this point, you don't know just from my story what I asked and what the newly appointed minister said to me. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, you should warn him, in case there are any more questions asked, and there have been by the MPs of the SRS, not to refer to the name of the MP in the envelope of those questions directly to the Serbian Assembly, but through the competent services, because according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, all MPs must have those answers in front of them. Again, I am not satisfied with those answers at all because it is obvious that he did not want to understand, he was then a deputy minister, although present, but apparently wanted to transfer responsibility to other ministries. I will take this opportunity, since I have already reported to the Rules of Procedure, to invite all the citizens of Užica to come to the award square in Užice today at 1900 hours, to a large folk rally of the SRS. On Sunday, July 2nd, elections for the president of the municipality were held, and we were running for professor. Dragiš Stanojčić, he will present today his best electoral programme for the municipality, at the rally will be spoke by the heads of the SRS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as well as by the other MPs and our presidential candidate. Therefore, I urge all citizens to gather at Uzica today at 1900 hours at the SRS rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28568	Thank you. Your suggestion on parliamentary matters is appropriate, and we will draw attention to the minister to follow the rules and to send answers to the National Assembly and the relevant services. The People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, two things. First, we don't have an authorised representative of the ministry and we're having a debate, which is incorrect. We even have a new minister, and we have a signed decision on an authorised representative who signed for himself the Deputy Prime Minister, which is once again a strange precedent. The second thing, when we talked about the amendment of the SRS MPs, about Article 5, I answered my word, but after nine minutes, I don't think nine minutes are up, I didn't get the word. I'm not saying there's any evil intentions, it probably happened at some speed, a rush. I didn't notice that it's going on at a fast pace reading all of this. Now that I have three minutes, I want to say some things I didn't say. This is one technical law and it's so understood. It is a law that has existed at federal level since 2001, and it should be a very important and useful law for the state of Serbia and for agricultural production. Why this law is important and why it is being passed today, I wonder, what are the reasons that we have it and that we have it in this form, that even the farmer, Mr Vlaovic, is expressing his concern, what to do with it and what he will practically bring. Food is strategic raw materials. Food today, if we follow what the EU is and what is a common position, it must be safe and healthy and if what Europe is doing today is seen, then it stands for an increasing number of hectares that will be sown with healthy food. Fertile land, climate conditions that we have absolutely qualified us to be a serious food producer. The question is how many acres has been sown so far with this modified food? Minimumly, almost nothing compared to Europe. Another fact, a study on organic food production has been done by the FAO, an organisation for agriculture, the world, the European Committee, there is a study on Bulgaria, Albania and Serbia. It went well in Bulgaria, and in Serbia it is minimally, insignificantly, unregulated and there is no valid data on the production. Who defended the current government from going into this production with genuine incentive and educational measures, when it comes to education, what Mr. Vlaovic was talking about, we are practically zero. Nothing the ministry has done to propagate this and introduce it into academic institutions and universities, to revive, so that normal flows can be implemented. So, it remains why, since I don't have time, I'm going to give another sentence, because this ministry headed by the former minister, and the current Deputy Prime Minister, introduces genetically modified food that is extremely harmful and that is against the European Community's intensities. The conventions and regulations of the European Community are not respected here, but there is a rule of 2003 that should be marked. The European Union requires strict marking if you have 0.9% genetically modified organisms on that product. The problem of conflict between America and Europe is clear. European consumers are against genetically modified food. About 60 million Europeans are covered by a movement against the use of genetically modified food, and I'm not going to talk about what kind of organization it is. Citizens of Serbia, and here's what the 2,500 survey says, genetically modified food - 9.6%; I'm absolutely against – 68.7%; what is it – asks 21%. Here is how it works against the interests of Serbian citizens and their will, it can be seen from this research. We're witnessing genetically modified food poisoning. There are studies in Europe, and only you spread and raise your hands, ma'am. I have here a report from the British government panel on 300 pages of 2003 that says: there must be a serious risk of genetically modified food and move your head to the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28570	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28571	We know that Mrs Ivana Dulic is a representative of the Monsanto firm, a multinational company that has been convicted in the United States for bribery and corruption. So that's reality. This law seeks to cloud the eyes of citizens, to draw attention from the great use of genetically modified food, which is contrary to Europe's intensity. It's not against the American and World Trade Organization's intensities. I apologize for the extension and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28572	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE FINANSIRANJ TO LOCAL Self-LAZIRANJE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Hranislav Perić, Milisav Petronijević, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Antic, Mita Avramov, Branislav Blažić, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Momir Marković, Igor Bečić, Boban Vojnović, Darko Glisić, Stevica Deđanski, Branislav Rankić, Stojan Tintor, Milan Škrbić, Srdjo Komazec, Vjerica Rade, Milovan Radovanović, Milorad Mirić, Sredo Perić, Veroljub Arsić, Nemanja Sarović, Miljko Četrović, Goran Cvetrović, Dragoljuvić Štović, Dragović Št. You have received a report from the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28573	We have opened a debate on amendments to the draft law on the financing of local self-government. I must warn the public that there is probably some heavy fight in this democratic bloc, because when the Law on Local Elections was passed and the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, then in this second law on local self-government thirty, forty members are committed to funding local self-government. Just to remind you, these are laws, when we talk about a package of two laws that make up a single continent – about local elections and local self-government, the largest reform range of DOS authorities. These are the regulations that he explained here, among other things, Vladan Batic, and the idea creator of these laws was Nebojsa Covic. That's when it came to a bad concept. The SRS has repeatedly asked for these two laws to be changed. Just to remind you, in 2004, right before the local elections, we asked for an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections, because almost all MP groups in the National Assembly found that this first move of DOS authorities in the area of local self-government was bad, wrong, because all the experiences that were in line with these regulations said that this would happen with our local self-government, that the president of the municipality, the mayor, went one way, and the local self-government unit assembly another way. After two years of office, without any problems, any president of the municipality can change, and from the session of the local self-government unit to the next session, some new coalition, some new local government. Of course, it was all disputed. Now we have a situation to reform something that is worldly recognized in a way that is certainly unspeakable. In order for the public to have insight into what is proposed by this law on the financing of local self-government, I must draw attention to the fact that even before this member to which we have submitted the amendment means an amendment to Article 6(1) in previous members and, in particular, in Article 3, as well as to Article 4, it is evident that the one who wrote this law and who intended to resolve the issue of funding of local self-government matters does not know what local self-government is and does not know what the concept of local self-government is in our power. We have a bad version of the so-called. one-degree local self-government. It is such a bad concept that if we were to ask MPs now: what are local self-government units, there would be several answers and everyone would probably be right. Why? Because there's a formal aspect, a legal aspect, and there's an essential aspect of life. If by formal means and by law, units are a city, i.e. a municipality, a city of Belgrade and cities. If you go by the essential aspect, then units of local self-government are primarily municipalities and all those places where citizens directly realise their interests that represent an unimaginable condition for life and work in a particular area. Just to remind you, there are several other cities in Serbia near Belgrade that are statusally destroyed and are not even in the same legal or status position. Take an example of Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. Even different selections are made by committees, and even different names are called so-called so-called so-called committees. the executive bodies of local self-government. The question is whether they have their budgets and what these budgets look like. Instead of dealing with the basics of local self-government in some way being resolved, defined, or some view of what it should look like, perhaps during the certain necessary change of the Law on Local Self-Government, we get a purely accounting-financial regulation that needs to provide insight into the resources of local self-government, which is not slow and it should exist, but is clouded by the essence. It's clouding what's the original jurisdiction of local self-government. Since it is not covered by this amendment, I do not want to further comment on the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 which are essentially general provisions on which the whole concept of the law is based. Article 6 The bill was proposed by the proposer to define the original incomes of local self-government units, and the member has practically 16 points, where income sources are taxed which represent something that belongs to the local self-government unit under the law at the beginning, something which is ultimately untouchable, and by force of law belongs to the local self-government unit. Point 1. reads: "The units of local self-government belong to the original incomes achieved in its territory, namely: 1) property tax, except for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance tax and gift tax." We believe that if original incomes are already prescribed by law to units of local self-government, it should be done precisely and without a system of division within one of the sources of income. If this point 1 is read, it is concluded that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and gifts is not the original income of the unit of local self-government, but on the basis of the collection of funds is possible through some other kind of transfer of funds from the Republic to the local self-government unit to direct some of these funds. We think that what has the most touching points with local self-government is certainly immobility. If recognised to the local self-government unit as the original income of the property tax, then the tax on the transfer of absolute rights for property located on the territory of the local self-government unit would have to be the original income of that unit of local self-government, as well as the tax charged on the basis of inheritance and gifts, because these two legal transactions, if I may say so, and which are subject to taxation, are essentially linked to the locality where the property is located, so why not tell the court where the contracts are certified and to the court where the debate is being held and where some other competent authority, therefore, gives or receives a gift. We did not want to go into a more detailed analysis based on the structure of these revenues as they are throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We are aware that there is a difference between the municipality and the municipality due to natural and other potentials, because of the size of the territory and other factors affecting it, but we believe that such a precise provision where there is no share of income on this basis is guaranteed by stable incomes to the local self-government unit, and those units of local self-government that, in the natural course of things, are kind of denied for the enormous growth of these revenues, additional resources can be provided through transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget and in other ways. Of course, public spending at the level of local self-government should fit the planned public spending on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so we absolutely do not dispute it, because it would not be acceptable for the government and the National Bank of Serbia to be responsible for the country's economic policy, and that local self-government is so independent that it can question the objectives and postulate the economic policy that was planned for a year. That kind of co-operation, if I may say so, is already prescribed by the Budgetary System Act, so this discussion does not question that regulation, but I think it is necessary to clearly write down those revenues that belong not in this way, because there is one logical problem. If someone in point 1 of this article says that the local self-government unit is the original income achieved on its territory and the property tax, then what will this do to you – "except for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and taxes on inheritance and gift", there is no need to quote these two types of taxes. If it was your idea to be just a property tax, all you had to do was write it behind this decimal to wipe it out. As soon as you put – "except", you pointed out that in one of the following members, that kind of income is divided. We insist that this type of income is not shared, because tax based on these two taxes, therefore, the transfer of absolute rights, inheritances and gifts, is a direct link with the local self-government unit in terms of immovableity, in terms of territory where local self-government is carried out. So if you were to refuse this amendment of ours, then you would have to remove this legal-logic lack of point 1, because if you're all listed in a positive definition, I don't know why you're doing this negative in the same sentence. She can only confuse, because the other can't mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28574	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28575	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 6. The draft law on the financing of local self-government determines and regulates the original revenues to local self-government. Of course, that article provides for 16 types of income that constitute the original revenues of local self-government. I proposed an amendment to add another revenue, which is the income from the compensation for using the natural drug factor. So it would be 17 revenue or, in particular, we suggested adding as point 8, and we move the rest. The Law on Local Self-Government in Article 18 is governed by the original work of local self-government. In the original section of the local self-government, in Article 18, paragraph 19 reads: "The municipality is responsible" and not to list further, "that old and secure conditions for the preservation, use and improvement of the area with natural medicinal properties". So it was given into the jurisdiction of the municipality as the original part of the circle. Following all of this, the Law on Local Self-Government is in Article 78, editing the original incomes of local self-government precisely regulated that there are 16 types of income. Among them is another one, which we propose, which is – compensation for using a natural healing factor. So the Law on Local Self-Government regulated it in general and gave it to the municipality, as well as funds to carry out these tasks. So, in addition to adding that in this draft law on the financing of local self-government of these 16 points, 15 has been taken over from this law on local self-government, as referred to in Article 78, it is not the only one – compensation for the use of the natural drug factor as the original means. For these reasons, we find it logical that the original income in local self-government should also be compensation for the use of a natural drug factor. The government in its response to that amendment says, please listen carefully. In point 1), i.e. in the first part, part of the response – the amendment is not accepted, since the compensation for the use of the natural drug factor is the original income of the unit of local self-government. What's the deal? That's what we're looking for. The amendment is not accepted, because it is the original income of the local self-government unit. If that's a mistake, I'd like to be explained. If that's true, then we agree, because we say it's the original income, and we're asking only to enter Article 6 as the original income. Of course, I am obliged to present another problem to the public, which is present – the problem of determining the amount of fee for using these natural irrevocable and irreparable drug factors has not been resolved since the adoption of the Bane Act. That's a big problem. In 1992, the Law on Baths was adopted, in which the funds were said to belong to local self-government, but the amount of funds is determined by the National Assembly. For fourteen years, the National Assembly has not determined the amount of funds and municipalities do not have that money. That is true and that is the problem, but because the National Assembly has not established this, the cost is paid by municipalities – Vranjčka Banja, Aranjelovac and not to list further, all municipalities that they have and how they need to take care of conservation, restoration, these properties they have. Therefore, it is not acceptable to explain that 14 years of municipalities cannot use that compensation because the National Assembly has not made a decision on height. We are now not putting that income back on the original income, but the government says in a statement that a new law on spas is being prepared, which will overcome the problem of collecting that fee and which will be regulated to continue to pay that fee. Another problem. Why should income be granted if the Law on Local Self-Government determines that it is the original part of the circle, that it is the original income? Why wouldn't the original income be here? To conclude, given that the Law on Local Self-Government, the Municipality is obliged to care for use, promotion, conservation of the area with natural medicinal properties, given that in the Law on Local Self-Government, compensation for the use of this natural factor is the original income. Given the government's response, where it also says that this is the original income of the unit of local self-government, I suggest that the amendment be accepted, and that another point as point 8 is added in Article 6 – the original income to be the compensation for the use of the natural drug factor. I call on the MPs in voting day to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28576	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28577	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam of the Ministry of Finance, when Mr. Misa Petronijevic becomes Minister, this issue will be resolved soon, no problem, we will regulate that. On behalf of the SPS, MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted an amendment that would not have had to be decent if what Misa had elaborated here and offered as arguments had been accepted in an appropriate way sooner or it was true that the Bane Act had been passed. I want to say that he is in the process and that I assume that at the fall regular session, MPs will have the opportunity to face him and try all together to make a good law. It's already done with the relationship and it's done, but aside from the arguments that distinguished counterpart Misa Petronijevic has offered here, I want to say why it is important for the amendment to be accepted. Because, apart from Vrnjačka Banja, which is the most important and represents the pearl of continental and Banja tourism and some other spas, there are spas located in highly undeveloped areas. So, at least 15 such spas are located in municipalities that, according to different parameters, begin when we combine any of the elements that are important to show the degree of development of a local self-government, or one community. It would help these municipalities to accept such an amendment if what is their original jurisdiction were better covered financially and to implement certain programmes that are their obligation. I remind my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament that I am several times, not only when it comes to the natural healing factor, but everything else that is the exploitation of natural non-renewable resources in Serbia, therefore, and when it comes to mineral sites and various others, that there is, I think, and I hope that we will agree on that, a certain state inability to record and collect these revenues. There is no finance minister here right now, and I remind you that once after this speaker, he said that only in 2005 on that basis Serbia was denied 60m euros. It is very important that we get answers as to why the state is unable to incriminate 60m euros in income, and I hope that we will not have this as a mere finding when we adopt the 2007 budget. So, this is about the cretin "Jelen Dol", the Mayans from which the cement lamp is drawn, it's about gravel, these companies that exploit and bottle water throughout Serbia. Citizens get the impression that either someone doesn't know something or has some problems with it, and I have to say that sometimes I think someone has some interest in not being like that. It is very important that MPs get an answer as to why the state is unable to collect this revenue and thus correct its budgetary situation. When it comes to the amendment in question, Misa Petronijevic has carefully analysed why it would be good to be accepted and I must say that he explained to the perfect elaborate that the argument that the government sent forward was so that he who wrote the explanation did not understand enough what was going on here or that Mishi made an argument that the amendment was accepted. So I invite you to accept this amendment in the voting day, and when the law on spas comes into the assembly procedure, we can correct that thing, niveste, it's all in our hands, and it's no problem, but at least four months we could have this as an income that could make poor and all the other municipalities. There's, of course, a whole series of problems. I'm taking the opportunity to give a review, for example. People in Vranjska Banja who insult the intelligence of guests who come there. When you come to any of the springs in Vranjska Banja, you can take one liter of water for free, and if you take more liters they charge you for it, let's say eight dinars per litre, but as soon as you get out of there, that water spills into the water, it goes into the stream. It offends the intelligence of people who charge three liters of water. So if no one comes there all day, thousands of gallons of water goes into the river, but if you show up with one bottle of three liters, they charge you 24 dinars. So, I'm telling tourists and healthcare professionals in Vranjska Banja public request not to do it because it really sucks, let them return the system that used to be, chips, but this is really amazing. That's what happens at Snow White, on Lake and all the sources in Vranjska Banja, people just don't know what it's about. There's a man out there who's obviously getting paid to charge 50 times a day, but being incased in the course of one day isn't enough for a profit he's supposed to make in a month. If it's just because of his salary, I don't mind, but it makes a bad impression on those who organize it, and leaves people feeling sick because it sucks. It would be just like paying at a gas station what they pour into your tank, and when you leave, it's irreversibly going somewhere into a stream. So I invite people from Vrnjaka Banja to fix this. It's completely inappropriate what's supposed to happen at a center that made a million overnights in 1972. I call on you to accept the amendment of Miso Petronivic, because the argument offered is practically perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28578	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28579	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something that is happening in Serbia today. What's so funny? I didn't, the honourable MPs, even the finger showed him to laugh. I understand that I did it to make him laugh, that there's some reason. Maybe someone put the flour somewhere, so funny to him, who knows what it is. Otherwise, the way the use of financial resources by local self-government is partly improved is still not well enough done and there is no idea exactly how much of it, or what all the obligations of local self-government, which republics and what portion of the income they make, but at the same time from the obligations they need to perform, bear on them local self-government, and what the Republic of Serbia is wearing. It is true that this amendment facilitates more efficient collection and provides a source of income, primarily from the use of a natural drug factor, and when we talk about our spas, we have to have everything in the secondary legislation, so we have five laws that regulate the same matter, you don't know if you'll find a certain solution in the Bane Act, someone else in the Law on Local Self-Government, and until the harmonisation of our laws is carried out, it would take another 10 years. There are areas where this is even more difficult and incomparably problematic than today. We in Serbia today, especially at the end of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, have to take care of how and in what way, what Serbia can offer, where Serbia can earn, where Serbia can contribute to the development of its economy and I think that, apart from what we talked about, what our comparative advantages are, regardless of the low accumulation of agriculture, which we still have to use as our most significant business branch, what we should be reorientating in any case in the future are, first of all, services, tourism and that is what Serbia has a huge field of progress. Of course, first of all, we have to work in Belgrade. You know that Budapest has two billion euros or dollars, I heard officially that data right in the capital of Hungary, a pure profit from tourism only in Budapest. Belgrade may not, although we are proud of our history, although we are proud of everything we have, but let us say that we may not have such a type as the Hungarian Parliament, such as everything they have on the Budapest Fortress. But I think we have something very similar, something perhaps more beautiful and valuable, even older, like Calemegdan, and we have something that no one has, a position on two rivers, it's Sava and Danube, and I hope in the future that the Danube Days won't be celebrating on Savi just because they can't find a municipality anywhere in the Danube that isn't radical, so they have a big problem. I expect to be there soon on the Jetina in Uzic, since the elections are there, to schedule a Danube Day celebration so that someone spends money on ministers or I don't know what to say, it's just important that you vote for us and nothing else. So investment in tourism and services is something that Serbia can bring particularly significant revenues. About medicinal spas, about what we don't know, and we'd use a lot more, especially we have to take care of, and this role of local self-government has to be particularly expressed. Does anyone and how many people in Serbia today know that Ivanjica has the best blood center? I happen to know, my son there, the other kid with the other kids, playing basketball at eight years old, going there to play, I had no idea that nothing had been invested since 1978, and there's no better place, there's no better air, there's no better solutions for bloodlessness than to take someone there. What did we do to promote that? Can local self-government do that? Can we still fix and increase revenues in Vranjska Banja, can the state help local self-government? Well, he can do it this way, but he can do it in many other ways through all possible promotional activities. I went right to EU countries, I don't like the right to tell you, I've traveled all over Europe and the world, I love to be in Serbia, I'm not one to brag about how they go across the border every day. I'm watching videos on CNN, I don't have time to tell you, on SKY, on EURO-NEWS, etc., everyone's paid something, everyone's working somewhere to promote their country. I look at Montenegro a little bit – wild beauty, so I don't know, I look at wrestling, wherever you turn, however you turn, and not videos of 20-30 seconds, but promo-films of three minutes. About Slovenia and not talking. What did we do? Well, it's not essential to print a book where someone's going to launder money. Let's invest in money so that we can have all our spas full, but that these facilities are incomparably better and bigger than they are today, that the state helps local self-government, that money is being invested in it because it's going to come back twice as much. Why are we incompetent to this? If you're able to find the best people to run your election campaigns, which is the best way to design posters, videos, find photo editors, and not talk about absolutely the best professionals to film, what with video cameras, which I don't know as soon as, so let's do it for Serbia, let's do it for our country. Let's show what we have from Palic, Kanjiza, all the way to Lake Vlassin, and I don't even know which places in southern Serbia. Because it is the treasure of Serbia. You think, some say, yes, Hungary has a Balaton so you can go there to Shiofok or I don't know which place. And we have more lakes where we can make the best possible spas and spas and that the state helps local self-government, and that local self-government feels it as its own, because that way when you give it to the local government, it's kind of going to act like a private person. They'll want to keep it as safe as possible and as well as possible. If all the money is in Belgrade, so I was born in Belgrade, I love Belgrade more than anything, but not all the money can be in Belgrade. Well, these people need to live on something. Today we have a terrible problem of the population's depopulation in central Serbia. Everyone wants to go to Belgrade, all the money in Belgrade. So let's leave it to progress. Let Vrnjaka Banja have more income per capita than Belgrade, which is not. So let it be with Soko Banja and with any other. Let's show that Serbia is not just one center, the only place in this country, which I say, of course, is because I'm from here, I was born here, and I've spent my whole life here, but it has nothing to do with thinking about the state. The state must be considered responsibly and seriously because we have one Serbia, we do not have a spare. I once said that the production of cement at Serbia's level is 2,700,000 tonnes per year. Two million tonnes ends in Belgrade, 700,000 tonnes in the rest of Serbia, not only in central Serbia that someone does not get me wrong, and in Vojvodina. Where are we gonna go? The investment of Serbia's largest banks, Raiffeisen, Hipo, when I talk about investing on lending, is said to be somewhere at around 1 billion euros, over 920m euros in Belgrade and Vojvodina, 50m to 80m euros in central Serbia. Let's change some of that. I don't think this amendment is going to change this in any way. Supporting this amendment is a little thing that we can do to local self-government and make this charge a little more effective, nothing more than that. This is one thing we should be thinking about. So, there's something I think there's consent to, I don't think anyone in this country would ever object, not to power or opposition. Let's do this work, let's all work together, think about how and how to promote Serbia, show people that where there are dead cities, 100 euros square meters, such as Majdanpek, that we can raise it to be one of the important centers, or environments, Lake Borsko, etc., that it can be a significant tourist center. We build the infrastructure, we don't need two hours to get there. Let's fix that, two hours from Belgrade, what problem would that be? No one. These are the things I think we can do, we have to fix and do. We can no longer rely on what others have, we need to think about what we have. This rural tourism that many have been talking about hastily, see how it works in Vojvodina. Each of you has heard of the Chard between Zrenjanin and Novi Sad and Salash 84 and Salash 37. It's working. I apologize to someone I didn't mention. It succeeds, and not only come guests from Belgrade, Novi Sad, not only from Serbia, come from Hungary, Romania and other countries. Serbia has to make a promotion, Serbia has to do it. It's not a promotion - let me do something so I can fit in my shirt, so I can fit in my hat, I don't know what, in my book. We have a clear -- we're going to an ad on EURO-NEWS, that advertising costs so much and so much, here's the money in such a way that you'll see how to fix the arrival of guests, so you can build two new five-star hotels and three four-star hotels next year. Of course, the campaign depends on the natural resources that we cannot boast at this time, but let's say, two years ago in Egypt, it was in the construction of 9,000 hotels, and you know that Belgrade is missing three hotels every night, which is exclusive, which is what 100 euros per night means at the Hollywood Inn level, three, four stars. Not to say what we have in Serbia. Here, I said this is a little bit more orderly, there's a lot of people who are being treated, who are sick and older and younger, if it were even neater, you could bring people from all over the world. Extraordinary nature, playgrounds, extraordinary terrains. Nothing, I call on the authorities to accept this amendment. I hope that the local self-government won't be in our mouths just when we have to put pressure on the citizens to vote for one of the candidates and representatives of the government, because only when the elections then come these, like traveling circuses, columns of audium, can't a man go that way, just some with rotations going around, they're going to go aside, here one time, here the second time, here, the third time, I don't know what's going to happen here either. When they pass and how the elections go, no one ever remembers them again. I call on citizens to always think for themselves in these elections, wherever and whenever they are held. They know well, and no one has ever been able to deceive the people, nor will they in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28580	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mita Avramov. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28581	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on the financing of local self-government that we are now considering is not well-conceived because, reacting yet in Article 6, on the original incomes of local self-government and on the taxes to be received, it is the amendment of Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic that is available, i.e. which is the most recorded, that is, we are incorporating in the system of charging as the original income of local self-government. Therefore, the way funds are transferred from the level of the Republic to the unit of local self-government is not good under this law either. What I wanted, bearing the amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group in Article 15, which speaks of local municipal taxes, and first of all to draw attention to the situation concerning local municipal taxis, both in Kragujevac and in Belgrade and other cities that are under the authority of irresponsible people who have promised something else in the campaign, and after the government's conquest, made it even more difficult for citizens, such as the situation we have in the town of Kragujevac where local municipal taxes have increased astronomically since two years ago, since Veroljub Stevanovic and his group came into power. Of the coalition "Together for Kragujevac", citizens have no concrete benefit because there is no construction of municipal infrastructure in the parts of the city where it is most needed, the makeup of the streets in the centre, only some replacement of the water pipeline, and the whole perimeter of the city, that I am not talking about rural areas and that 22 settlements do not have water and sewerage, are on hold, or they will not be able to wait for such irresponsible authorities and mayor Stevanović, as the Belgraders see, especially those living in the Belgrade municipality of Zemun, that it is a major robbery by DS and Nenad Bogdanovic and that he treats Belgrade municipalities as a local community. Let's make a comparison. Yesterday, we were a colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic, Verica Radeta and I were in a campaign in the municipality of Užica and we visited Mokru Gora, Kremna and several other places, and speaking with our presidential candidate and citizens came to the frantic knowledge that the communal fees during the rule of this recalled president are now being chosen new on Sunday 2 July, and our candidate is again to remind you, Professor. Dragisa Stanojcic, therefore we have come to the knowledge that the municipality of Uzica, which is one of the leading municipalities per budget, has allocated the planned budget for this year only five million dinars to build municipal infrastructure in the village. I have an example of my own work. We almost had the city budget rebalance for 240 and a few million new dinars, all parasites to parasites, established business to build a city, various other parasites on the back of that poor people, when you look at it, there's absolutely nothing. Whom to complain about when the government is such a blatant, ossion, disintegrates, tens of millions of dinars go to travel expenses and the entire budget is generated from the revenues of the municipal taxis referred to in Article 15. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I asked for Section 2 to be deleted, where it is said that the government will determine the maximum amount for local municipal taxes under Item 1, because these are municipal taxes, a total of 16 which are listed as the original income of the local self-government units, and that the fees under Item 1 will be taken. 1), 2) and (3), on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which will firstly receive the opinion of the Commission on the financing of local self-government, to establish, in any case, Dinkic, or future finance minister, under this law, as our people would say – with him and the knife and the cakes, to decide on the revenues of local self-government and how much of a goblet and as far as anyone can get around and what kind of policy he will lead. No Serbian radical in any municipality where we are in power, began from the town of Novi Sad where the mayor of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, across the municipality of Zemun, the municipality of Shid, other municipalities where they worked in power, went on such an incredible increase in municipal taxis. Believe me, it doesn't even occur to anyone that he's doing this, and that he's a normal and honorable man, to an amount that's unsustainable to citizens, and that's why we're asking that the government doesn't interfere, or to erase this second position, because the real hosts and people who know what citizens can handle, in terms of funding the local community, are going to determine the way in which the most rational means are going to be spent. The easiest thing to do is to come to power, to promise citizens, like Bogdanovic, Stevanovic and others -- we're going to build this, we're going to open up thousands of jobs, we're going to have this, that project, there's nothing. Money laundering, various abuses, the deception of citizens, and these communal taxes from points 1) to 16) are indeed a burden for many of our citizens that they cannot withstand. Many people can't pay the Building Land Fund because they're astronomical figures that are purchased in the poor budget in a year. Yesterday we heard in Užica, and it's a practice in all the cities where the government is irresponsible, that the company for the construction of the city is the largest parasite, like this Kragujevac, to which most of the new rebalancing cakes have fallen. It's the same case here in Belgrade. Who has been harassing the city and who determines business locations and space for the construction of fabulously expensive residential buildings – the construction mafia. There's one in my town, too. He promised the current mayor and based the campaign on it, that he would fight the construction mafia hard. It's not gonna happen. They continue to go, cheat people, promise old powerless people, those who are poor pensioners so they can't pay for the intercom, they want cable TV, that they might change the tiles in a bathroom that's 30 or 1,000 euros old, so they can get a complete space to build that building, and then sell a square meter of apartment for 900 or 1,000 euros. Is that normal? It's a clean robbery. No, someone's stupid and they don't know other people are in this lucrative business. Why can't others come to that position? Why didn't an engineer, a construction worker get into that position fired from work or some other economist who'd been left out of work and thrown out into the street? Because he doesn't have a banking lobby behind him or a local self-government lobby, or those that will help him get that opportunity, so that by pouring the hollow into empty buildings, he can make a living on one building, or for generations of his family who will come after him. That's amazing. Then the government will interfere and determine what level it is, or the height of the municipal taxis that will be determined by the local self-government unit. Did the government of the Republic of Serbia and all these laws proposed by Mladjan Dinkic, which you adopted, cause us to need such members in the law. Ask the people and ask Gordana Pop-Lazic who talked about it in the principle debate, how difficult it is to have with that handful of funds in the municipality of Zemun, because Bogdanovic treats all municipalities in such a way, from this huge cake from which he and the entire Democratic Party have to settle down and get rich. He's on a spoon giving to the municipalities. I told you for example, you may have forgotten, after that kind of coup occurred in the Municipality of Grock when Mr. Simonovic was removed from the seat of the president of the municipality, and in a few months he caught them in incredible malversions and put a budget on his feet and set off with investments in the Municipality of Grock. It gathered after the gang, these yellow led them, the Sutanovac was one of the advocates to execute this kind of coup. Now the new one that's icabana has appeared. He's a member of G17 and says in the morning program at Studio B, he's asked there for a project, for building municipal infrastructure, for a street. He says: I don't know, I have to see Mayor Bogdanovic, you know it's all in his hands. The same situation will be in Kragujevac. It already is for those local communities where absolutely nothing is invested in the center without talking about the suburban work. The councils of the local communities launched an action, starting with the local community of Erdogli, so in turn, the city's local communities in Kragujevac, a circulatory letter was sent to the addresses of ten local communities to rebel against such a policy by the Kragujevac city government. People in Belgrade's municipalities are also rebelling, but whom to complain about, when the mafia is harassing and ruling. This is how this law, in writing and in agreement with Dinkic, and these yellows with the G17 are going to do whatever they want to do and to dispose of the resources of the citizens in such a blatant way and through the robbery, above all, in the companies where they set up these "cadres". People don't benefit from that. That's why it would be good, not to talk and talk, for 15 years we've been listening to you, about decentralisation, about how you're going to have this or that law, you're going to throw up property, to allow municipalities and cities to develop. No, but through projects that Mr. Vukic had just spoken of and with the possibility of the municipality owning its own resources and regulating the level of municipal taxis, and the household leads the government and invests where it is most necessary. Ask people, here in my town, and go to municipalities all over Serbia, and in Uzic it is an obvious example. We visited these four villages yesterday. For years, nothing has been invested in these villages in infrastructure. Is it normal in 2006 that people wait for water and sewers, the way, without talking about asphalt. It is a mental noun for dozens of settlements from the village in the town of Kragujevac. That's what we need to talk about. It's a way to normally and domestically run the government, to take care of priorities. We do not say or promise, this is what our candidate in Uzic did, nor did Mr. Rankic say, that he would pave the streets overnight. The easiest thing to do is go and talk, lie and deceive people like Velimir Ilic does. He takes a month off, doesn't do anything in government and goes from town to town, talks fiction and forgets, and doesn't know who he promised. He cheats people from campaign to campaign. Yesterday I listen on my way to Uzice on a local radio in Chačka, a journalist making a parody of all his changes, especially promises made in the Smederevo municipality, when he said he would steal from a highway from somewhere, he will manage and pave the way for that and that village a few miles away. That's what he's saying now on Uzica, he was talking a few days ago in Raznje. Do you think there's any of that? There's nothing. That's what he said in Kragujevac, he had his candidate, an MP from Kragujevac who managed to draw money from him for a part of the settlement. When I say it from him, because Velya acts like it's his grandfather and his father-in-law and he gives it to whoever he wants. Of the other promises, nothing. A few days ago, the whole government was photographed, Kostunica came with a light and with that citizen, but a dangerous agent and spy Zoran Stankovic, he doesn't know what to do on the bus that the Republic Government was driving on and came to Kragujevac. I asked him who allowed him to enter the plant of dedicated products. Such a spy and such a traitor can't go anywhere, let alone enter a factory and that factory of dedicated products. They came to Kragujevac, promised a highway, a five-mile section. Do you know how many machines were involved and how many were working? Every half hour as long as they took their picture and got off that bus that could have been written by the outgoing government or the government of the mess, the shame, whatever you want, next to that name on Last's bus. Bruca and shame. Do you think the people didn't see it through and that they didn't see what it was about and that these people were lying and cheating? That's why we don't need only these additional elections on these tours where first of all the government and these yellows think they're very strong, so they push these candidates and promise towers and cities, but choices on all levels and that the people judge and judge about all of us. We're confident they'll give us the highest confidence. It is also obvious by this argument, both on previous amendments and on those I have submitted to Article 15, that you do not want local self-government to have the right way with its means and to regulate in this case the height of municipal taxis. I have no illusions that in the day of the vote you will accept this amendment. This is what your programme cannot accept and what is not good for any city in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28582	The word has an MP, Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28583	I reported to the Businessman, Member of the 100th for calling the vice-president of the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction, as well as us MPs who are in the party. Unlike those of you who think I'm going to defend Stevanović here right now, I'm not going to defend him. I'll even criticize him. I'll criticise him for being too busy for Kragujevac, which is too much running and working for Kragujevac, and he has obligations in the party as well. He neglected the Serbian Democratic Movement of Reconstruction and I think he spends a little time there as much as he should. The wisest thing would be to let go of those problems that are in Kragujevac, to let everything he does for Kragujevac go aside and work for the party. We eight MPs and this membership that SDPO has, there are no big stains or I don't know what. We all have maybe as much wealth as a prominent member of another party together. Find out which one of us SDPO MPs here has some wealth. Get our fortune together and you'll see how much it is. What Verko does for Kragujevac is maltene beyond the possibility of an ordinary man. You know that Veroljub has exceptional energy, 95% of this energy invested in Kragujevac and in the development of local self-government, in protecting people down there. I think it would be smarter and wiser if more party engagements were made and, let's say, by selling some party ideology, or demagogy, by selling fog, made some points for the party. He did everything he could for the citizens of Kragujevac. I think there are criticisms on that side from me, which should be more involved for the party. I think we'd make it easier, simpler points without any big trouble. You know the situation in Kragujevac. He didn't inherit down there. I don't know what or how much wealth. He inherited factories that didn't work, inherited the mass of what didn't work, a million problems. You know that before Veroljub Stevanovic arrived at the head of the municipality, it was called the Valley of Hunger, which was mainly in Serbia and at that time, before 2000, many things were the valley of hunger, especially in southern Serbia. It's hard to deal with these problems. The easiest thing to do is to criticize a man who's done a lot for his city. I think it would be wiser for us from the SDPO to do what we do and not ask for anything and for us to start doing some demagogy and earning cheap political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28584	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, is it according to the Rules of Procedure or replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28585	Anyway, it doesn't matter, I always think whoever wants to go out for a pay phone should and can come out, because it's natural for anyone to express their opinion, to take advantage of any business opportunity. I went out for one sentence Mr Kitanovic said, which is – I criticise someone, because, in this case, Mr Stevanović, if I am not mistaken, is not dedicated enough to working in the party and works most in Kragujevac. Now let's see how the state officials today, and we can't talk about the opposition, but about the state officials, behave, so let's see some others who are in opposition today, and the officials are at the level of local self-government. State officials in our country were criticised in their own time, especially from the SPS ranks, therefore, to abuse state and party functions. You remember how many times Slobodan Milosevic has been told, this has been discussed for days, weeks, years, how he can be president of the state at the same time, and to hold on to the post of president of the SPS, and even under pressure he invented something there, and he freezes the function, so I don't know what it is, separated the functions of the chairman of the General Committee from the party and I don't know what it is. Since 5 October 2000, nobody can ask – excuse me, are you the president of Serbia, the president of all citizens of this country or the president of the DS? Any statement by Boris Tadic, but absolutely every party. Have you, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, heard the president of this country two nights ago on Montenegrin state television where he says: I am proud to be at the helm of a bloc to fight the SRS. Excuse me, master, but what does this have to do with the state of Serbia, what does this have to do with our people in Montenegro? You are attacking those most popular with our people in Montenegro, who were for the survival of the state community and in front of others, you are clearly saying that the only purpose and purpose of your policy is to remain in power and to carry out party interests, to divide Serbia into two parts. He says clearly: honourable MPs, I want to lead one block, and the other part, we think bigger, and he means smaller, but it doesn't matter how much part of Serbia, no, it's some of the forces of darkness, chaos, madness, and I don't know what. Then state officials, the ones here that need to come, Dinkic or whatever it is called, says: let's ban the largest party in Serbia. That's what you're talking about, you're talking about how abuse of political parties, whether they're doing party or state work, and we're shaking at the fear of the force that hit us, what it was, 28 days, gathering 70,000 signatures all with customs administrations, directors of apothecary institutions, directors of health homes, under the threat of dismissal. Dear citizens of Serbia, yesterday I was walking around the mall and one man says, "Come on, do one action by making a contraction to raise one two million and 700,000 to show what we think of them." I ask: when state officials say – if you don't want us to reregister your vehicles, and why won't you, are these people to blame that there is no state union of Serbia and Montenegro anymore? And then he says he doesn't have a Euro 3 engine. Oh, come on, don't let it pollute our air, otherwise everything's nice with us, it's a miracle how it works, so it doesn't pollute our air. People don't have the bread to eat, so they don't pollute our air. No, it's supposed to be all cars where that old iron was dumped.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28586	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28587	I know, Mr. Michaelovich, and I thank you for letting me finish. You have to, let them reregister those people's vehicles, let them take some money for the state register, people will agree, let people drive their cars and thus improve the social situation in Serbia. What's the problem with that? Is that a logical calculation for every normal and rational in this country? We don't mind, because I don't have a car like that, I don't mind, and I won't feel threatened even if these people let it go. Let's see what the other state officials are saying, I'll be a little while longer, I'm sorry I took so much time, the next question is, what are some of the other officials that Miss Jovanovic was talking about doing, they're doing nothing, except doing party work. They've got a job, you're going to go to the bath, you're going to ski, you're going to ride, you're going to get yellow, and every day you're going to go from Capalnik to Kralje, every day from village to village, you promise an airport, somewhere else you promise the roads to formula one, three or four bridges so far promised to the King, I've never seen one of them built and nothing else is dealt with. Come on, people, you're doing something for the citizens of Serbia. I don't know if you've noticed, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm watching Serbian television, but on TV Pink, there's this show -- the state of the roads, and then it says, repairs there, works on the bridge, reconstruction this time here, that time there, I see four or five places that have been mentioned, and I know exactly that there are local elections being held there. Nowhere where there's no local choice, no one does anything, just where the local elections are, it's where the machines show up. They think the people are stupid, stupid, that the people don't know anything. But they know Serbian citizens. No matter what political opponents we are, Mr Kitanovic, I would like Mr Stevanovic to work better and more successfully in Kragujevac, and as successful as we are, we think insufficiently, and you think very much, but he will show it to the citizens in the elections, as they have chosen Mr Stevanović, perhaps next time he will not or may be re-elected, but in any case, it is the people who will best assess it, and I am sure that the Kragujevac deserves more and that the Kragujevci deserve much better and different lives than they do today, and I don't think it is Verko Stevanovic's fault or not too much his guilt. Unfortunately, I think that the state of Serbia must take much more care of its citizens, especially in the sense that I was just talking about in those parts that are now incomparably less developed, where people are barely making ends meet. I'm facing one problem wherever I go. I want to tell people that I, and not just me, but anyone from the SRS, is not like that, and I speak clearly from the assembly pay phone. My wife tells me, I don't know what village it is, whether Cubitkovica or Dudovica, doesn't matter, still belongs to Belgrade, the Lazarjeva municipality, and close to Ljiga: you know Vukicu, all the money went to Belgrade. I say, you're Belgrade too, and she says yes, but we're not Belgrade. I ask: who are you, Belgrade, and she tells me: the one who doesn't have money, because all the money went to the center, they don't know what to do with the money, and we don't have anything here, and only those in Belgrade are taking the money. People, this story, which is not true until the end, will only create new antagonisms in Serbia if something does not change. That is why it is so important that we make sure that we prevent the further depopulation of the population from inside and help the poorest regions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28588	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28589	I'm sorry, I've really abused your patience. Kragujevac is one of the poorest cities in Serbia, and there live hardworking people, capable people, and I am sure that the state of Serbia can help to be incomparably richer than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28590	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28591	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. The draft law on funding local self-government, and I suggest that at point 11, where it says: "maintaining music devices and hosting music programs in catering facilities", they add: "which are throwing a party for 200 and more guests". That's what I'm saying from personal experience, because I'm saying that all the caterers and people who deal with small businesses don't have any money if they're running a entertainment program and holding music devices under 200 guests. I suggest that goes for those who have more than 200 guests, because they and how they earn some money. However, those who have smaller clubs are absolutely at risk, and this detimulatively affects the small economy and the entrepreneurial initiative. I want to say that this is another contribution to the tourist season that is already in full swing, that smaller places in our tourist resorts can be relieved of these obligations and thus can collect some incomes and thus give our few tourists a certain amount of fun that they can in some way relax and dissipate from everyday problems and thus make our contribution. Also, I mean, under Article 15, I'm afraid everything and everything is charged. For some average Serbian citizen if he wants to go to any city or will pay for the entrance to the bus station, or he will pay for a car parking spot, and yet what business he is going to finish, at least two, three communal fees and other contributions he is due to pay in the place he wants to go to to finish certain jobs. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should be supported for several reasons. I also said when it comes to guests in tourist resorts, as well as those who can possibly count on them in this way in some way. Also, I would also like to say that if we take the fee paid for the purchase, for the transfer from any facility or country, anything, I have to say that the municipal tax on it is about 10%, not somewhere, but 10%, which means – who buys a hectare of land, unfortunately has to pay in the municipality of 10 acres. It's a lot for an individual, and for local self-government, it doesn't represent something that significant for the local budget. I would like to thank you, since I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, and I would not like to explain it, that you accepted my proposal, because when it comes to calling for self-delivery for local self-government, I have cited last time an example that there is a lot of abuse where abuses are being committed through signing and allegedly all the self-deliverys being passed, however, this way in which it will be regulated in the future, and that is only a referendum, is the only right way to prevent all possible abuses that occur in all local self-governments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28592	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28593	Mr. Mihailovic, there are several amendments to Article 15, so let's see what all MPs propose to change in article 15. Article 15 refers to local municipal fees, and in point 1 there are 16 points that are prescribed for what a local municipal tax can be introduced for. Now I'd just like to point out the whole of all the amendments that have been submitted to this article. Mr. Blazic has requested that the act be deleted with an amendment. 3), 5, 6), 7) and 8). "Local utility fees can be introduced for: 3) keeping motor road and connection vehicles, other than agricultural vehicles and machinery; 5) holding and using water facilities and water appliances; 6) holding and using boats; 7) holding restaurants and other catering and entertainment facilities; 8) holding domestic and exotic animals" etc. Now we have something that will be subject to both taxation and local communal tax. I don't think so, I'm sure he can't, no matter what we're making a termological difference between taxes and taxis, but the same good thing is taxed twice. If a local communal tax is introduced, no taxes should be paid. I didn't notice in your concept that the state is giving up on tax returns. It would be good if the proponent, or representative of the promoter, were present in the hall, he came in and went out, probably he had a difficult or some other problem, but Kostunica would have to appoint another representative who could explain why a good pay and taxes and municipalities pay a local communal fee. In doing so, I have to draw your attention when it comes to tax, the law requires both rate and everything, and when it comes to local municipal tax, then local self-government has the freedom to handle it on its own, so everything and everything in practice can happen. What's the subject of taxation, the subject of some registration, is why you're now burdening yourself with a local communal tax. Why don't the state give up the tax, so leave all this income to the local self-government. That's the central problem of this member. The other thing that's problematic, that's attitude 2. He says, "The government will determine the highest amount for local municipal fees from point one. 1), 2) and (3) of this member, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance." You see, the highest amount of local municipal tax is practically to be determined by the government. Until now, it's always been regulated by law. The government did not have that authority to prescribe it, but there was a Law on local municipal taxes, where everything was prescribed in which proportions it could move and the authority of the local self-government unit was given to do so by its decision. Please, just so the public knows, we are for reform, but we are not for returning to retrograde solutions, to something old, surpassed by the people. We're not for her to be back in 2001, 2002. Please, this government in this bill, in its explanation on page 3, is critical of everything that has been done since 2002 in the concept of local self-government. Just to remind you, those of you who did power at the time voted for it, you are still in power today, except for the SPS who criticised it, you have now stepped up for the SPO, the Democratic Kobajagi have come out, but they are suited to this centralization in local self-government, in the way the units of local self-government have been defined, from Nenad Bogdanovic you have made a sultan. Why do they need a government on a republican level? They're holding Belgrade, trapped for city halls, and whoever can control it there can do whatever they want. Even the Light Banders will order from abroad, so make sure when you're criticizing something, I don't want it to go back to something that was bad, retrograde, time ran it over, proved it failed. I see that the democratic bloc is about to make some oblivion, so let me remind you, the other day, what is represented as the president of Serbia, he says: we are going to change the Constitution in the way it is foreseen by the Constitution. He forgot that his party here voted in favour of the law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution, so he even had the Constitutional Court to realize that it was unconstitutional, to undo all this. Tadic forgot it, he had nothing to do with Djindjic, he had nothing to do with Zivkovic, he became a water polo player now, Michelle Platini is the best goalie on the globe. That's the kind of president we have in the Republic. From him began history, as from the day he was elected, the potted pot hole. This is what Boris Tadic tells us through his yellow tycoon. In this context, it is necessary to interpret all these amendments to Article 15, that there will be an even greater confusion and confusion, and I must remind you that Article 15 has its own legal and technical and logical predecessor in Article 7 where the Government has proposed that the original income rates, as well as the way and criteria for determining the height of local taxis, determines the unit assembly of local self-government by its decision, in accordance with the law. What law? How could a local self-government unit assembly determine the rate of property tax? I see that the proposaler's representative is a man who pretends to understand something in finance, and if that same man is doing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, he is applying the Budgetary System Act, as he could in the Law on the financing of local self-government to write something, how this unit of local self-government can determine the rate of tax, and the tax prescribed by law and represent the income of the Republic. How? You do not pay back those taxes as they were during your Tito - provincial, municipal taxes. There's no concept here. The concept here is obviously contained on the last pages of the reasoning of this bill. You will see a table review of the municipalities, those municipalities where the authorities run the parties that are in opposition – the effects of applying the new law, if it passes, are zero, and the municipalities where anyone is encrypted behind DOS are positive. You have in one of these tables – the effects of applying this law to one of the most underdeveloped municipalities that is commonly used in statistical research, such as Crna Trava – is zero, and the same effect is in the most developed municipality. It's hardly anyone can explain what kind of intervention is, unless they look at the structure of the local authorities in these municipalities. Where the president of the municipality is, where the socialist is gone, and where the Democrats must be. There's not even where the DSS is. But where is the Democrats - the sea. Take care, we have no intention of holding hands for this kind of thing, to vote. We must criticise this for the simple reason that for such a change, the amount of tax on property determines local self-government, we do not accept it, as we do not know what it means for you in Article 7(2). - the decision referred to in Article 1 shall be taken after the public hearing has been held. Why would someone be obliged to conduct a public debate without knowing what you mean by public debate? You've got a criminal tender going on. Your Department of Public Procurement found crime in the ministry and those under the ministry when they held a tender, or some public procurement. As far as I can see, the government here can pull, it can criticize itself, because it's all divided into parcels. Here's this interested group, here's the second, here's the third interest group. That capacity has torn this Serbia apart. For the sake of coalition capacity, anything and everything can go into law. When we come to power, we need 150 laws that you've forced us to change here. We'll be very effective at it because we know exactly what violated the legal system. They're here on purpose to pass laws that can't be applied. On purpose, laws are passed for which an interpretation of several institutions is needed. You heard a week ago that even the Supreme Court no longer wants to interpret the rules, doesn't want to interpret the law as a team before they're competent to apply that law. You get at every step serious criticism that you simply put everything and everything into the law and then in that general chaos, your democratic bloc's ideology comes down to what's worse. It remains to chew on democracy, the way to Europe through the Atlantic, and who knows what, to deceive people, give some illusion that people think something is going to happen, and there's none of it. Those in power don't have driver's license and the end of the story. It's dangerous when they're given a steering wheel. They know they can't drive, but they won't let go until it's finished. The Belgrade agreement, the SRJ, destroys the military and now several thousand people from the Council of Ministers, an official with 20 and 30 years of employment until August 1st, runs out of work. If you leave them out of work, then banish the military's faces because they're in the same status as the employees. They're crossing business from the state community to the Republic. The Republic has never done that before. He won't hear about those old personnel, he's got to put in, probably what they signed in Kragujevac in customs. Now let me tell you how many there were, 4.450 signatures, Home of Health – 80 signatures, Customs Administration – 75 signatures. You see, 75 signatures in customs are collected, that's with the republican public prosecutor. I go to the republican public prosecutor as an interested party to determine the authenticity of the signature and see who signed everything at work. Then I tell him - when radicals come to power, you, sir, cannot work in the state service because you have submitted your state service to the mob demands of some who feel that a party should be banned. In the workplace, you were in the business of the parties, and you weren't in the business, because you weren't in the business, and then, without paying customs, that and that goods came in, so we're going to comb all these criminals from Canet Frog. Did you sign this, ma'am? No, of course not. Says the Director of the Treasury - 70 signed. Of course I'll have an insight into all these signatures. And what about when I ask one of them? Is this your signature, please? He says no, it's not my signature. Then I have to chase everyone from G17 because they faked it. I'll have to chase you all. We're gonna have to discuss what's true, what's not true. It seems that Tomislav Nikolic was right when he said – it would not be an easy dessert to eat. What's normal, which is collected, and what's falsified, so probably nobody eats fakes, which someone would eat. There, and now he's probably not here because he can't watch radicals. Call you, Mr. Chairman, the minister who hangs around here, I see the bag and his stuff is here. He's not here for private matters, he's here for the state. I don't feel comfortable looking at him here either, but he's bound to be in the workplace as I am in the obligation. If he's sick of listening to someone here, we need to let him know that we're sick and we're listening and we need to read all the crap that's written in these regulations. It has never happened in Serbia's history that ministers and the government were so demeaning and demeaning ministry officials. This government sends an officer who must swallow dumplings neither guilty nor debtor. For who? Because of the rude minister who comes in the jeans, who's playing some punk here in this assembly, and then how he wants to get in, whether he doesn't get in. No, he has to be here. If he's prevented from making excuses, the doctor's belief that he's lying in a corridor in some hospital, so he can't, that's an excuse. Or that there's a government session at the moment when we're talking here, and he's begging to break up. He needs us to file accounts, because through this submission, they account for us and all Serbian citizens. And not that we should all justify ourselves to some juvenile who imagined that they were someone or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28594	Thank you. I'll ask for information from the president of the National Assembly, so I'll give it to you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Snezana Plassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28595	Thank you. Once again, I would ask that the dignity of the congregation be respected and that such words as they have just been used are absolutely not allowed to be used. From the assembly speaker, no Serbian citizen can qualify as a clipan, however it may be, especially if it is a minister, it means someone who is elected by Serbian citizens. I ask that, in such cases, the future respond, and of course, the minister is rightly absent, because the minister's job involves not only attending congregation meetings but also many other obligations, some of which are of international importance. So, of course, it is necessary to notify why the minister is absent, and I am sure that the chairman will do so, but once again I pray that the assembly speaker will never again be allowed to, I appeal to you, too, Mr. Chairman, that in such cases, notices must indeed be given to MPs who use inappropriate and offensive words from the assembly speaker. It's not a good model of behavior, I'm warning you one more time. A politician is a public figure, he is someone who, by his example and by his behaviour, provides a very ugly picture of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Incidentally, it's the same MP again, and I'm asking you to stop that practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28596	Thank you. I said I'd ask for information from the president of the Assembly that organises the sessions and I'll let you know why the minister isn't here right now. The replica was sought by Zoran Krasic. Lawmakers are obliged by the Rules of Procedure to express themselves with respect to their colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28597	Mr. Obradovic, it's just by chance again the same MP who invented the incident a month ago. Please, when I finish my speech, ask this stenography service to immediately deliver a prototype of a stenogram copy or put some video-bid to show here, i.e. So people can understand the meaning of every word I use from this pay phone. Mr. Obradovic, you probably weren't present at the beginning of the session. He who was determined by the government act to be a representative of this agenda entered the hall, came to his place, maybe sat down for two, three seconds, measured, saw that Serbia had MPs, turned around and went outside. No one was informed whether he was being trampled by something, so in the corridor, whether it was difficult for him, had had a heart attack, had he not been trampled by something in front of the building or beaten up by a journalist here in the hallway, that Jocic might not have come to arrest him, or some pathologist came to talk to him about financing the army. The government's session is not yet, it's only around 13.00 Thursdays, it's always announced. We have no information where the one we're absolutely sure doesn't want to hear any criticism. The minister must be here if he is a representative of the government, to hear criticisms because these are criticisms of Serbian citizens through their national representatives. If that bothers him, he can put cotton in his ears and act like he can hear everything without paying attention here. However, when it comes to this person who is proposed to be a representative of the government on this agenda point, I remind you that it is the same person who entered here with the jeans unculturally, who began to cliber himself even though there was no flour or raised finger, it is a non-serious member of the government who in all ways abuses his function to protect his survival, the survival of his tycoon friends because the time is approaching when the books are opened. There's a white book in the press right now, and I don't know how many thousands of pages there are, about all the criminal affairs that were led by a gentleman who's claiming to be the government's representative for this part of the agenda. Since some political groups here do not respond to this gentleman, I am not in charge of treating that condition. If it is prevented, to say, to see whether it is justified or not, if it is not prevented, it has not informed the National Assembly to interrupt, and Jocic is hiring the service to bring him in to be present here or, even better, that the Prime Minister, as we received a letter for this previous item of the agenda this morning, to inform us – according to this agenda point, the authorised representative is Bubalo. The bug said he'd never come in here again, and we get it then. And this is how you make a mistake. Dinkic goes in and out, whether he will or won't now we need to doubt. The only thing that's clear to us is the Bugs. And what did I do wrong to hurt my dignity? I called my real name the behavior of a person representing the government. If that's how the government is represented, then it's inconclusive and it's an insult to the government. I'm not talking, I'm talking about an insult to the government's institution. They insult the government as a term, as a state body. As soon as the name of the state authority is insulted, all citizens of that state are offended. Now, if someone really can't figure these things out, I really can't help it. Please avoid calling me, because when I go out on the line, then I need to open up a letter-and-let's go further, to teach you some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28598	Thank you. I will ask for information from the president of the National Assembly that he has agreed today, I will ask him to forward the information to me and I will pass it on to the MPs who are obliged by Minister Dinkic and why he is not with us today, and if necessary, we will set a break. There are representatives of the ministry who will convey to the minister everything that has been said in the assembly hall about the law. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28599	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, there is reason for the session to be interrupted until the arrival of the competent minister appointed by the government in the proposal to defend and explain to the MPs the bill. This is how MPs from all political parties remain deprived, and you can see that MPs of the SRS are most in favour of the plan. It is essential that a minister representing the government and appointed by the government be present to answer questions. I have five or six questions that concern only the provisions of the proposed law. I don't see who's changing the minister here, whether the minister or the government has appointed a deputy, whether the deputy can give arguments and represent. Since there are no government representatives, there have been conditions to interrupt the session on this agenda and to continue when an authorised government representative arrives to give appropriate answers to the questions asked. This isn't about some insignificant law. It's a law of 140 and more municipalities. It's about the rights and obligations of local self-government. Citizens expect this parliament to pass a law that will go to their advantage, a law that will improve the conditions of functioning of the local self-government institution. We had a chance, at least today, to hear Mr. Alexander Vukic's presentation on issues of local self-government, about what environments, what regions and what areas should have priorities for our citizens at local level. So it's about very important issues. It doesn't matter who it is, what it is, but in any case the proposed solutions need to be regulated to that extent, normised, to that extent precise and passed in Parliament a good law that will equally and evenly go in favour of local self-government, i.e. municipality, no matter who's in power. If you'll excuse me, a few more sentences... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... when it comes to these taxes and when it comes to the development of infrastructure at local level. By the people's well-being and wealth of this republic, I see that it is still equally and evenly not taken care of. In practice, such a situation is present that if a party or some official is in power, in which case it will have more opportunities to transfer funds and develop certain infrastructure systems and help citizens in this area, and there are false promises... (President: Please bring an end, four minutes and ten seconds. ) You have a situation, see Tara, Zlatibor, Zlatar, Javor and other regions of which the government, i.e. the government and the representatives of the government, do not care enough, about their advantages and the exploitation of such natural resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28600	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I've already given you an explanation, and you'll get information in the next few minutes. Ambassador Milan Stevovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I had the honour and pleasure to be in a large number of populated places in the municipality of Užica in the wake of the campaign for the election of the president of the municipality held on Sunday, speaking to citizens in the presence of fellow Milan Stevovic, the president of the municipality of Požega, therefore, the neighbouring municipality of Užica, it is truly wonderful to see, regardless of which, you will think that I am biased by being my party colleague, but such reactions by people, especially in villages such as the village of Karan which is immediately near the municipality of Požeg, where, with all the praise of Mr Stevovic, who is one of the most successful presidents of municipalities and has received many praises and recognitions, he is also considering the problems of the neighbouring municipality. So, we can't prejudge the same thing, we want to professor. Dragisa Stanojcic, an SRS candidate, won Sunday. He is a respected man, a professor of literature at the economic school in Uzic, for many generations he has led on the right path, indeed there people appreciate and respect him, he has honestly performed, he does not promise towers and cities, he is not in the manner nor Velimir Ilic nor the other ministers from the government went from village to village to promise roads, asphaltes. He only knows that he will fight crime and corruption and is such a slogan – "For power without corruption", because as a man says well, how he raised his three sons and brought them on the road, that is, this youngest child is just getting started, so he will do everything he can to make that municipality that, because of its geographical location and because of the resources it has to make progress. Mr. Stevovic submitted an amendment where he warned the legislator that it was unnecessary for the self-delivery provision to be incorporated into the Law on the financing of local self-government, and he received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it was precisely the proposal to delete the provisions, i.e. members of 77 to 104 in the basic law on local self-government, so that one of the 77 to 104 was and the way self-deploying was made in the local self-government unit and that because of that processing, there were obviously mixed grandmothers and frogs here, as this false foreign minister Vuk Draskovic would say, but indeed so. One bad law on local self-government that we criticized when it was passed, had its changes and additions in 2004, but the basic law since 2002, you have now damaged and made this law worse. You can't, ma'am, I'm talking to you, although you can't answer because the minister isn't here or the MPs of the ruling coalition, the basic law to change by making this one a lex specialis compared to him, it's really amazing. If you wanted to change all this, that's it. how to finance local self-government that we criticise from member to member by giving better solutions, then you could only resort to amendments and supplementing the basic law on local self-government. Am I right? I did. Like this, what does this mean? One new law, only one segment of the functioning of local self-government you bring, and you undermine from 77th to 104 all members that exist in the basic law. That's really amazing. You are still giving an answer to the MP Stevovic and MP Momir Markovic, who submitted the amendment to Article 21, which is the continuation of this, related to the referendum on the way of data, recording, etc. citizens who want to sign off on self-dependence. Speaking of self-indulgence, I want to tell you that this is something that local self-government should resort to in extreme need. When it comes to the municipality of Požega, only in one village, my colleague Stevovic told me at the citizens' request, all other projects, especially for local communities in the centre of Požega where there is not enough funding from the current revenues of the budget, although he is a maximumly rational man and all costs are reduced to a minimum, those who are astronomical, travel expenses, waste on all sides, celebrations of the day of the city, you have as much in Bogdanovic as you will, there is no such thing in Požega. So it's all down to a minimum. Some travel orders from the president of the municipality, he doesn't have any travel orders, simply a man doesn't want it, to be on the back of a people's expense and to make such accounts. We've always been a party, since 1992, when the first elections for local self-government were called, saying it's a bad way, that citizens want it eventually, and they can't wait for the money to come, they can't get to their turn. These are rare examples. It was a period of one-party system invented by Cardellus and Joseph Broz at the time, and it remained that way. We think that it belongs to funds and original incomes and what the municipality is able to make with a good host as a profit, should serve as money to fund projects. It's not fair, I mentioned that in Kragujevac 22 settlements have no plumbing and sewerage. Some who have and where, by means of self-supply from many times, decades ago, people have managed to make asphalt, water, sewerage, now complain. Do you know what an injustice it is, to pull a trafo, electricity, that's what citizens do with a self-indulgence, plumbing, sewerage, asphalting some street. The competent public companies, whose founder is SO, should take care of it later. In this case, when it comes to water pipes, the water and sewerage company. They should be you. Do to them what they need to do, or local self-government, by seizing their citizens through self-delivery to facilitate their lives, because the most normal human need is for you to have a plumbing, sewerage, asphalt, electricity. After decades, when these water and sewerage pipes are already being reassessed and one part of it is changing, you are not aware of the competent company that was actually supposed to do it, or that the city is funding it. That's why self-delivery isn't good basically, and that's the ultimate necessity that someone resorts to when they want to finish some work. The basis of this amendment is that what exists in the law on local self-government should not be included in this law. It's impossible, and then what you're going to do with the law, it says in transitional and final terms, ceases to be true for you and those members. So what does that law about local self-government look like to you, why didn't you go out with one and another change, why didn't you have the first law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government on the agenda, so you could include it all. Then practically this law on funding local self-government would be unnecessary. You could have put all this into the Law of Local Self-Government, but the way you imagined it isn't good. That was the basic reason why counterpart Stevovic submitted the amendment. You see how right it is, because the way he manages the municipality is not that he is widely welcomed by the citizens of Pozega municipality where he is president, but this one from the neighbouring municipality and everywhere with those they cooperate with, only good examples and progress to see for these underage two years since he is the president of Požega municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28602	The amendment was reported by MP Petar Jojic. Here, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if one substance is governed by one law, it is not allowed for those same matter or the same norms to be copied and written and incorporated into the norms of another law. This is the case with the Law on Local Self-Government and with the law that is before the MPs. So it's a law on funding local self-government. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, in the case of Požega and other municipalities where certain activities are being carried out and the government is functioning, she made it nice and completely accurate. We are especially looking at the government where Serbian radicals are in power. As you know, in most municipalities, the SRS is in power, whether they are in power or in the coalition. What we think from the SRS is that this amendment by the People's MP, Mr Milan Stevovic, is logical, acceptable in one simple and logical way. It regulates the standard to be applied in Article 20 of the proposed law. First of all, in Article 20. The proposal for a law that regulates self- contribution, a decision on the introduction of self-indication, citizens shall make a referendum or by making a written statement in accordance with the rules governing the direct declaration procedure of citizens if this law is not otherwise laid down. A miracle, now we have the current Law on Local Self-Government, we have this proposal, and we're going one more step further, or the Proposer says, if this law is not different. This is quite vague, this is quite excessive, leading to confusion in the application of regulations and norms. In the position of the 2nd proposal of this Member, the form and manner of direct representation of citizens shall be governed by the statutes of the unit of local self-government. You have a provision in attitude one that is confusing and contradictory. Secondly, it is not in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. The amendment by MP Milan Stevovic, who suggested that this norm be clearly and precisely defined, says that the decision to introduce self-indulgence is made by citizens in a manner regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. What will make you clearer, more logical, more efficient, more celery and more complete? Everything is regulated in the Law of Local Self-Government. Why do we now prescribe the same norm in the law, and even in this law it is foreseen, if it is not otherwise regulated. In which provision, why doesn't he say, if it's otherwise regulated? in the provision of this article here and there, in the norm of this and that proposal of the law. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that he has a basis and that this amendment should be accepted, because he is very effective. On the other hand, there's a little talk here, and I apologize to the chairman if I take just a few more seconds of time to control the cost of self-dependencies. We don't know, and I don't have any data that lately, at least for the four or five years in Panchev, no one's been looking to come and see how dedicated budget funds are being spent, how funds from other forms and visions of income are being spent in that leather purse that comes into the municipal register. And that's why I think, and when it comes to self-indulgence control purposes, the funds are down in practice, and you can see for yourself, just to look for a report. Let the budgetary and financial inspection get into all the flows, you'll see that there are a lot of certain gaps and abuses that we do not, of course, agree with. We advocate to improve and pass a good law, but a law that will be applied and in the interest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28604	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an apostle, the Prophet of the Prophet Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28605	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when someone swears to decentralisation as this government does, then they should certainly take care of laws that regulate relations in local self-government, above all the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government, and then, of course, if we had previously done a law, I don't know if we need this law on funding local self-government as a special law. In any case, as conceived by the government of Kostunica-Dulic, it is not acceptable. I have to tell you, MPs who communicate with citizens, and we Serbian radicals do it on a regular basis, that the presidents of municipalities, employees of local self-government, are very panicked because of this law on the financing of local self-government, because people know that this law is not passed because of local self-government, because of the employees of local self-government, and not because of the citizens who live there, but this is also one of the financial laws controlled by the Ministry of Finance and another in a series of private laws, because unfortunately, the laws that are passed here, especially those who come from this ministry, are truly private laws, and it is perfectly seen in the course of applying those who are at all, since most of these laws are not applicable and unconstitutional and we talk a lot about it. Since what we're saying doesn't reach the minds of the competent ministers, and I'm afraid of my colleagues who vote for this law, we're glad that everything we're saying is getting to the minds of the Serbian and Serbian citizens who believe what we're saying, because we're not telling an empty story, because every time we specifically say that it's going to negatively reflect and what's going to happen when we apply one of these laws and, of course, every time we say that we're doing a certain matter, we're going to regulate it. Before I begin to speak, regarding this amendment by my colleague Momir Markovic, I would like to remind the chairman that we still have no information as to why the minister in charge is not here in the O.R. today. We have already discussed almost half of the amendments submitted here and we will not need information when we finish today's work on where the minister was today, and we argue that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it is normal and common to sit here and listen to what the MPs think about the bill that he represents, not that ministers and governments are walking around Serbia, running local campaigns and that when local campaigns end and these local elections, citizens remain in much more difficult conditions than they were before these local elections were held. I went to Smeder's the night before last, I was on my way from Grocka to Smederev, that road is really in terrible shape. I went that way before, there were holes, but it was bearable. Now you have on every 10 or 20 meters cut one piece of asphalt, several square meters, both from one bar and the other, and so on to Smederev. When I came here, I asked: people, how you used this time and what happened, why they cut up all the pieces of asphalt, and they said: it was in the local campaign, it was to make citizens think that really that way would be done, to asphalt, to cut up those pieces of asphalt, the campaign ended, the elections passed, the candidates passed there, and today there's not a word about that path being paved, so it's in a much worse shape than it was if they hadn't touched it, and they didn't promise anything, somehow it would have been used the way it was before those local elections. Of course, it's still done. These days, the current municipality of Uzica is and there are promises of towers and cities, there it has gone on, promises jobs related to the adaptation of the health home, so some of them appear, MPs say, for the first time see them in white coats, and that is their profession, but they have not appeared until now, except now when they represent the competent minister, but the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Užica know and are neither stupid nor crazy anymore, and they cannot, insulting the intelligence of the citizens, try, they can try, but they will not fail to deceive them, as in some municipalities have failed. Given that the Serbian government is running a local campaign, I think that as a national MP, I have the full right, even the obligation to inform the citizens of Užica that today at 7 pm in the main town square in Užica, there is a large national rally of the SRS where we will support the candidate, Professor Dragis Stanojcic, and that both Tomislav Nikolic and Gordana Pop-Lazic and Aleksandar Vucic and of course all our local officials, as well as the presidential candidate, will participate. Not at that rally, but yesterday I was in that campaign, including Milan Stevovic, our president of the Požega municipality was with us and we heard a lot of concrete what he did there, saw with his eyes, saw a lot of satisfied people, because they were border municipalities, so we kind of communicated with each other and there's not much talk about self-dependence. That is finally what has been regulated by the proposal of this law and this amendment. We Serbian radicals don't think anything good about self-sufficients, or think that self-sufficients should not be introduced to citizens, possibly as a necessary evil. If it is necessary to overcome an acute problem, we think that local self-government, or the state of Serbia, must take care of citizens, among other things, by taking care of building the necessary infrastructure and, therefore, we are in principle and in principle against introducing self-dependence. Imagine, you've also changed this law on planning and construction, and then you promised that it would be much better than the previous government, than the previous government, but neither one of them is good and neither of them has solved what is the most painful issue in Serbia, which is the legalisation of about a million buildings built without a building permit and with these laws that work can't be done and then we have these specific situations, specifically in Belgrade city municipalities, and I'm talking about the Zemun municipality, because I know how it works there. In the municipality of Zemun there are two commissions for legalisation and work daily, i.e. when they are able to meet, since the law provides that one of the members of these committees must be from the City Assembly, and when Nenadu Bogdanovic is made well-started, i.e. that the legalisation process in Zemun is updated, then he prohibits representatives of the City Assembly from coming to these commissions and then puts the work of these two commissions that exist in the municipality of Zemun and that job must suffer. That's one problem. The second problem, which is again more related to this article and the proposal, is related to the introduction of self-intribution and way of introducing self-intribution, etc. It refers to when a citizen of Zemun receives a solution where his facility has been found to meet the conditions for issuing a building and use permit, then he must go back to Nenad Bogdanovic in the Belgrade City Assembly and pay a lot of money there to get a final legalisation solution. Now this citizen rightly wonders why he'd give some money there, if he and his neighbors had paved the street, brought in that main telephone line, the primary sewer, the plumbing. Of course, they know that secondary connections have to pay and all citizens know it, but they should probably be primary and that they are the obligation of the state, that is, when it comes to Belgrade, the city of Belgrade, when it comes to other municipalities that function as special municipalities, such as the Belgrade city of Belgrade municipalities. Of course they are obliged to provide this for their citizens, because it is not only a function of local self-government to sell locations, but also to provide infrastructure for those locations. Then, since you know you won't, and I won't say you can't, because there are enough funds in Serbia's budget, you're boasting about the big surplus in the budget, there's enough funding in some municipalities in Belgrade, really a lot of funds in the budget, and Bogdanovic shares them the way he likes them, of course the Zemun municipality at least or almost nothing, but that's why some municipalities where his yellow pals and criminals are in power, they get as much as they need. Then what are they doing? They're working some fountains, fences. Of course, we don't mind the aesthetic grooming of the city, but if you have parts of Belgrade today and some central parts of Belgrade that still have no sewerage, then it's really pointless to talk only about the ironing and aesthetic arrangements that are actually Belgrade's authorities and are not doing to make Belgrade's views better, but because it's the easiest way to launder money. It's a distraction of the people and it's done by Nenad Bogdanovic and his manager, Stanojevic. Of course, it's all from the pockets of Serbian citizens. And yet, by this law, you want to confirm once again the possibility and way of introducing self-dependence. I say, once again, because it's already been regulated in the Law on Local Self-Government. It is unnecessary for the same matter to be regulated in two laws. We are illiterate, lawyers are not illiterate, people know that they use the law, that they cross over and that they need to go over more laws to resolve a question, not just one that you represent and that you are trying to present as some kind of best and revolutionary solution. Of course, my colleague Jojic used to say here, it is amazing that you are in this law putting aside the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. You have already shown that you are playing both state and law enforcement and it is really inadmissible to insult the intelligence of both MPs and citizens of Serbia in this way. Do a good law on local self-government, we've been talking about it for two years, we've made a proposal. Of course, it never occurred to anyone to put the proposal on the agenda. Regulate this matter as Serbian citizens expect this parliament and in order for Serbian citizens to really feel that some law is finally passed in this parliament, whichever way, at least a little better lives. Of course, we Serbian radicals know that this is neither your intention nor your goal, you want for this little time that you have left, when I say you, I mean the representatives of the government and some members of the government, to kidnap something else, or to grab something else that they may have left, to see where else to rob, and to make it harder and harder for citizens every day. In particular, I propose that this amendment to Momir Markovic be adopted and all other amendments that suggest erasing members who regulate self-esteem, even if not for reasons which are our cause, and that is a principled view that self-deliveries should not be introduced, if not for that reason, at least for formal reasons you have it regulated in one law, you do not need it in another.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28606	Anyone else want a word? MP Vladimir Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28607	I would like to propose to the MPs that they reject this amendment, as well as any amendments proposed by the SRS, because they are non-discriminatory to this law, and I would like to commend the SRS' commitment and concern for local self-government. The more they care about local self-government, the better the results in local elections – Kula, Razanj, Kovin, not to mention, are all the choices in which the SRS lost. (Branislav Stevanovic, from the place: Red card. You're showing me the red card? Why did you come out of the SRS then? In Raznja and Kovina below 10%, in Kovin the same committee as G17 plus who does not claim to have more percentages than the SRS, so you have burned even to advertise your candidates from this pay phone from your committee list, so you continue to defend local self-government, you will do even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28608	Replica, the People's Messenger of Stevanović, and the People's Messenger Petar Jojic. Mr. Jojic, are you advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure or otherwise? (Petar Jojic, from the post: About the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28609	Ladies and gentlemen, I showed Mr. Hoffman's red card for a reason not only do they need the biggest red card in the world. I want to say that I don't praise the other parties for the reason that in such hot summer days in the full run of annual vacations and the struggle of farmers to fight their jobs, you are always calling extraordinary local elections and in this way harassing the people, and I must point out that the people have the least of these choices and, of course, nothing in Serbia has changed so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28610	The time after the amendment is up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28611	It is not disputed that local elections were held, including in the Kovin municipality, but only for the sake of the public, in the municipality of Kovin came from the government with black auditions, damages, limos, promised to have boulevards, airports and that factories would work, etc. However, they came with machines from one party and those machines were on one road between Kovin, Gai and Dubovac on Saturday and the machine disappeared. It's Saturday, Sunday's election. Some parties have brought and shared flour with the citizens, promised to be far better, but I can tell you that citizens will certainly think about these promises well because there are no realised promises made, no roads, no sidewalks. Between Little Bavanist and Gai, three trucks of gravel were spilled and a machine came along, a bulldozer spread it and promised seven kilometers to the citizens. The election's over, and there's no machines, there's no ministers. The minister of education comes and promises that two sports halls in Kovin will be built, comes to the populated place of Deliblato abuse the post of minister ahead of the elections. He picked up children from first to eighth grade to take pictures with them and promised that they would learn less in the future and that everyone would get the desired result and enrolment in colleges and hope for employment. It was one really inappropriate action and activity. We don't look back on things like that. Since five-six municipalities in Serbia have been forced to call elections, but the government's coercion has never been recorded and recorded in the past that there have been so many elections and the introduction of a forced administration. Those were the reasons, because in the previous local elections, the parties that want this today had a bad result. Let them wait for the next election and see how it goes. What is basic, no need to deceive citizens, no false promises to make. I wish someone from the Ministry of Agriculture had come to the municipality of Kovin and told the citizens: you citizens of the Kovin municipality have 242,000 hectares of farmland, including Pločić, Skorenovac, Guy, Dubovac, Mramorak, Malo Bavanište, etc. But why doesn't someone come from the government and say: open this sugar factory, it's the most modern sugar factory in the former SFRY, and now in Serbia. It's been closed and hasn't worked since 2000. Citizens, as you can check for yourself, have 242,000 hectares, with a large number of citizens producing sugar tails in the Kovin municipality, and are forced to drive sugar tails and some profiteers, who have become the owners of sugarcanes, as is the case with Kovacica – Kole bought for three euros. This one does not work, and the most modern technology, citizens sell sugar tails to others in Kovacica and Zrenjanin, and they have the most modern sugar shop in Kovin. About 400 workers are out of work. Why isn't that sugar shop moving? Why should the Government, from its reserves or at least to mention, at least one of those five billion euros held as foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange reserves, not give at least one billion to individual agricultural producers, cooperatives and agricultural combinations, to improve agriculture and provide export placement and food to our citizens in our country. Therefore, the result of these false promises is being seen by citizens by now. We will never make false promises in the campaign and we will never deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28612	The reply to the presentation of MP Vladimir Homan was sought by Nemanja Sarovic. The mention of the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit I'm surprised by what I heard from Mr. Homan. Either his memory is so short that he remembers only the previous weeks and those choices that were then held or something else, maybe some malice. Of course, the SRS cares about the Law on Local Self-Government, and certainly also cares about those municipalities in which the government was independent, either as a majority part of the government. The SRS government in the bar is recognizable. It is also recognizable in Novi Sad, Serbia's current largest construction site, is recognised in Surdulica, Aleksinac, Kikindi, Vrbas, Požega, not all those cities where the SRS is in power. The results are not the same everywhere, and we haven't won all the municipalities in Serbia yet, but be sure in a year, two or three when a little more people are disappointed, because the promises you make daily from the municipality to the municipality are not even trying to keep. There is not enough room in Serbia for all these airports, or for all these highways and bridges. He can't exactly make that kind of river. You should remember some other municipalities. You teamed up against the SRS in Bor. I don't remember, though, that candidate G17 plus was in the second round, but there Branislav Rankic received two-thirds of the people's votes and where the situation is difficult, and today it is harder and harder in all of Serbia, where the SRS records the most winning victory. You should remember, though, the Public Service had no information about it, an election in the Bujanovac municipality, which for many of you is ballast and which should be like some other municipalities to stop being part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are as many as nine parties from the so-called. The democratic bloc has joined against the SRS. Not against those who, as their pre-election programme, have the secession of the Bujanovac from Serbia, but against the SRS and its candidate. The people called it the band of nine ants against a lion. So nine parties, DSS, DS, G17 plus, SPO, SPS, Nova Serbia, Karic, Covic, Liberals, all of you who are the worst of all charges on each other, have taken hands again and tried to defeat the SRS and the Serb people, but of course you failed. Your joint candidate, the nine-party candidate, won three times less votes than the SRS candidate. I invite you and now, join in freely, the more you team up, the safer our victory is.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28614	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Humane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28615	This was a replica, and that is why I go out to the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Sarovic is neither an authorised representative of the SRS under this law nor is at least not yet the head of the parliamentary group, so I don't know how you gave him the replica. Indeed, where that foothold is in the Rules of Procedure, I don't know, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As for short memory, I don't have a very short memory. I remember your leader making promises of his own time, and when they asked him after he had come to power, he said, "It is on the Radicals to promise, and on you that you believe us that we will keep it."
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28616	Thank you, Mr. Humane. Mr. Sarovic was given because a parliamentary group was mentioned, and I interpreted the Rules of Procedure as allowing MPs to express their views and their views from this pay phone and I did so with other parliamentary groups, not only with the MPs of the SRS. I think it's in the spirit of this house. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28617	Mr. Obradovic, you are currently the Vice-President of the Finance Committee, and I hope you will pay attention to these remarks that I make regarding the amendment to Article 22, and I would like to warn you and inform you that the MPs of your party and these others are familiar with my reasoning of the amendment to Article 22. It's a bill of law. What's this about? From Articles 20 to 31. The bill contains provisions that effectively define self-determination. I just have to start by reminding myself that it's not the subject of this law. This law is the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, and here in Article 1 it states that the provision of funds to municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade for the pursuit of original and trusted tasks, and all this is written from Articles 20 to 31, is a procedure for the decision on self-delivery and all of this is governed by the relevant provisions of the law, which is considered a system law for local self-government, that is, Section V – The financing of the business units of local self-government. Within the framework of this section, there is a section relating to meat self-delivery where it is envisaged from the initiative through decision to how to collect these funds. Since this law should regulate the financing of local self-government and the funds provided on the basis of self-delivery constitute a source of funds, then the only possible link between this bill and the existing law on local self-government would be one member or one position in one of the members of this proposed law and only indicate in that position or article that revenues based on local self-income are revenues belonging to the corresponding unit of local self-government and that the decision is made under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government. So all this stuff that's from Articles 20 to 31 isn't the matter of this law, because this law doesn't regulate how decisions are made. It's prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government. What the budget of the local self-government unit should look like is not prescribed by this law but by the Budgetary System Act and it is quite clear. However, in this conflict in the democratic bloc, there was also a kind of smartness between those who represented themselves in 2001 that at the birth of a genius, one little genius wrote the law, and the other, who thinks he's a little bigger genius and won't come to his funeral, wrote some changes and additions and changed the law of the first genius. The geniuses came to their senses, and here, please, I'll read it to you, please don't take that time into account, because I have the right to quote what's stated in the Rules of Procedure. Page 3 of the reasonings of this bill, please note that some who dispute my views would not be wrong. This is how: "A self-delivery as a dedicated income introduced by the citizens' decision is arranged in Articles 20 to 31. The news is that the funds collected on the basis of a decision on meat self-delivery are the revenues of the local self-government unit's budget." So to stop here – the news is that this is the income of the budget of the unit of local self-government." Just to remind you that in 2001, 2002, when the budget system rules, tax regulations, local self-management rules were made, the DOS government boasted that all public revenues were included, that they were transparently shown in the budget and that later, of course, their realisation and use would be controlled through the final account. Serbia needs to know that today there is no final budget bill for 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, I cannot call you for 2005, there may have been some valid reasons, so no proposal has been made, no draft law on the final account has been given. So, ever since democracy came to Serbia, and she came across the burned Federal Assembly, and when European, world standards came to life, we lost our final account. Come on, for 2000, you may not have been able to bring it because before you it was an unnatural regime, a red-and-black coalition, but in 2001 it was marked as the most successful year of democratic power. Then you delivered Slobodan Milosevic, then you achieved epochal results, boasted, announced the import of labour force. Why didn't the final bill come in 2002? So the democratic bloc wouldn't let anyone control the public first, control what they were doing in 2001. It was similar for both business and budget 2002 and even worse for the 2003 budget. There was probably nothing that could be done about the Sabre action at the time. So in 2004, a new government came in, passed all year round 2005, and no final account law was passed, not even proposed for 2004. I think about a month ago, about that, one decision was made in the National Assembly that was meant to allow for who to be auditors, etc., extreme auditor. Of course, I am not criticising that decision because this revision is necessary, but I am only a real parallel and I am giving a political stance on the absence of final accounts since democracy in Serbia took over. So we have a democracy here that promotes us as a kind of anarchy. This is what I'm saying now because there's a democratic yellow block that tends to replace the thesis, about -- hold the wolf, so the fox takes away. So keep it on a thief, and he carries it. Come on, now I don't want those names, I've got a lot of work to do today, so I'm going to name some names just when it's the greatest ratings you know. To read a further explanation, it is said -- a decision on local self-delivery, the income of the unit's budget of local self-government, overcoming the problems of the collection of meat self-delivery started in 2002. What are you hiding that you've been having problems since 2002 with the collection of meatloafs? In early 2002, when the law came into force, you said it was best. Is it possible that you referred in four years? Don't bring us back to that retarded age with changes and new laws. Don't make those relapses come back. You can imagine how the citizens shake slightly, imagine that Djelic or Zivkovic or Ceda Jovanovic or Bojan Pajtic is coming back. People cut their hands out of pain. He goes on to say – when the law on local self-government lost the character of public income by changing the law on local self-government. This is what I now interpret as one representative of this government criticising a former friend who was a representative of that government, and both governments are a democratic bloc within democracy, or DOS regime, which is obviously responsible for breaking Serbia up, I argue, daily showing that the democratic bloc is breaking up Serbia thoroughly. Let's move on – since then, local self-income has been paid at the expense of the local community so that the Tax Administration has no basis for the solution to determine the collection of meat self-income on income from agriculture and forestry and on income from independent activities. Let me remind you, you criticized the period when we were in power in Zemun, and it was about local communities. As far as I can tell, you're more critical of these local communities now. Why did you criticize us then, who were you trying to trick? We read further – since the municipalities were unable to make their own cuts and collect meat self-delivery. How one could pass such a law and say: meat self - contribution, the original income of the municipality, and now you claim that the municipality could neither cut nor charge. I see here systematically and constantly that the democratic bloc, the demons, are breaking up, lying, cheating, stealing and all the blackest things are working at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, they did not charge any money from farmers and craftsmen. Now you want to take from farmers and craftsmen based on self-dependence. So, registered unregistered, registered-unregistered agricultural producers, Mladjan Dinkic wants to come after you again. Let's move on – which is where the employees who pay for the meat contribution were brought into an unequal position. That's weird. The result is that, based on local self-communication, far less resources are realised than planned, so that the solution to the communal and other problems that are vital to the local communities and therefore also for municipalities, and are financed from the local self-delivery, is very difficult. Now we're gonna stop there for a while. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just to remind you, it doesn't matter what year it is, let there be years of non-national regimes in the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to these contributions, schools, waterways, sewerage, health facilities were built, if not completely, then a partial participation of local self-government was ensured, given that in one period the Republic is also for these so-called so-called so-called ‘Republic’. capital investments participated. I remind you that you have similarly provided funds to provide electricity or something that may be the most painful today for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia - phones. On the way to self-supply, the funds are expensive, the lines are drawn up, the facilities are built, the installations are inserted, the citizens are expensive money, there was some mail, there was a unique company at the time, and when the technical reception is made, all that remains is the basic means of mail, and now it is property of Telekom. This has become state property. Your money has gone from private to state property, so now you're paying various fees, as much as, at the moment it doesn't matter, but it's important that Telekom and when privatized, you're not recognised to be a co-owner of Telekom in an aliquotic section one through the number of total telephone devices or connections in Serbia. That's why we're like the SRS against imposing this, but we're no bother if the citizens want us to. Now, that's what the citizens want with us. It used to be that the decision was made in a referendum, a smart man who had thought a lot about local self-government and made some Balkan centres supported the idea of collecting signatures. On the idea of collecting signatures as a form of public declaration of self-delivery, I will report on one of the next amendments, to explain it nicely, what it looks like in Kragujevac or when the red card is collected.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28618	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. One notice, today, to schedule your obligations, thank you for understanding, just to let you know, we will only work until the search is complete in detail of this 9th item of the agenda. We'll give the break a little later and it'll be a little longer. There will be no session on Friday, and there will be no session Monday, working days according to the Rules of Procedure, no exceptional reason, a follow-up to the 10th item of the agenda will be at 10.00 a.m. on Tuesday 4 July. Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28619	I'm gonna keep this going. Since all the amendments of the SRS from Articles 20 to 31 have been made, Article 20 has been said otherwise, to the Law on Local Self-Government, but from 21 to 31, our amendment reads that we are seeking to delete this member, not that it would not exist, but because it already exists in the Law on Local Self-Government. There is no need for mutual disagreements in the democratic bloc to be resolved by the fact that one government will mutilate what the previous government has done, so that it allegedly boasts that something has ended, and one and another solution are essentially bad. For this debate, regarding the provisions of this proposal for self-management law, this numbering of members almost means nothing. Just to remind you, according to this regulation, there is a possibility that a decision on seducing a local self-deportation with all those components would be made by collecting citizens' signatures. What kind of signatures are these? These are signatures, I must tell you, that you understand me better, when there is something in Serbia that is said to be the same, it is said - spit. That's what it's called, spit like that. It's about as spat out as some signatures that turned themselves in yesterday, a statement, a home number, whether you're in, accepted, etc. We, even then, seven or eight years ago and more when that variant of making a decision on self-delivery was regulated by law, pointed to a lack of such form. Why? Because there's personality data, literally, on everyone's plate, there's no room for one to express a negative attitude, because it goes on personality, good day, good day, we're you and we're collecting signatures for that and that. Neighbor, would you like to sign? If he says no, then the whole street and everyone in the place will know, that NN wouldn't sign and he's against getting the plumbing, sewers, etc. In this way, by collecting the signatures of citizens where they plead on the fate of self-dependence, the basic principle of making decisions is essentially denied, which is the secrecy of one decision, it is free will, because it raises questions as to whether the free will of a citizen when someone is tugging something on his signature. As unfree and as far as this does not suit the interests, it is also evidence that this collection of signatures at the customs office, hospital, etc., so that one political party is frightened by the fact that it is nearing the progression of popularity, and that the percentage is too great a numerical expression. She resorted to an operation of coercion, just like when self-deceiving by collecting signatures. It's a coercion. It denies several very important democratic principles on which the world, Europe and all international standards insist. So that's how the principle of equal value of each vote goes. In this way, nothing is the principle that a citizen freely decides on something that is a question, or is formulated as some of his interests. The right of citizens to choose whether to participate or not is denied here. This is where the forsyra is forced. She can be that street variant with the red color, counting on people to get together on the street and when they go to the market, and she says, "The neighbor's got problems, you skip this thing here, let's make a self-delivery and pave this alley." Then comes a kind of press. If it involves some actors, estred artists, athletes, then it becomes a ridiculous Olympics. Just to draw your attention that this way of collecting signatures to make a decision has another flaw. A citizen can rightly ask if his signature is falsified. Apropo of this street form of development of parliamentaryism from this promising party, I will list several examples, without indicating a place. In practice so far, there has been a situation where these statements have also been falsified by those who have organised the collection of signatures in the local community in order to make a decision on self-dependence. Especially when the decision to sign up provides for a material obligation for a person covered by a decision of local self-delivery on the seduction of local self-delivery, he has only property and lives on another territory. That's the problem with some weekenders, too. So, this kind of public statement on whether a decision on seduction of local self-deportation is contrary to democratic principles, we radicals fight against those who destroy democratic principles, always and in every place. Of course we're scared and trembling for those who force dictatorship, self-will, who talk about how they're from God to let them sort this out right here. Here, we don't even have a final account for five years. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia must be free of this fear and this violence, which comes from some territories, from some institutions, which are being pushed by these laws. As you have seen, here as the main virtue of the introduction of local self-indulgence in the way the government is proposing now, it says that in this way, craftsmen, agricultural producers, and others will be covered, because what the government of Zoran Djindjic has done could not cover the entire population, and now experts have come to the formula that it can all end up in the joy of their and individuals in municipalities where they participate in some government. Of course the SRS has to criticise this. Of course we have to invite people who are professionally involved in these things and the Constitutional Court and these professors of ours who talk and teach about local self-government and draw public attention to what can be done to end the way someone in the government imagined. I don't think the whole government shares an opinion on this. Because of the preservation of the coalition capacity, it changes for some time that orthodox nebulosis also goes as the government's position. I would ask MPs when they come out for this pay phone, and especially the MPs who have pledged to vote for this bill, because otherwise, authorities and representatives exist to support the government, not to criticise it. The opposition is obliged to criticise the government. We received experts in the context of the reasoning and the table under regular number three, which is at the end of this small brochure and is said to be a comparative review of the impact of the change in the amount of funds on the 2006 case on the basis of a proposal for reform of the local self-government financing system in relation to the applicable 2006 law. For the sake of the public, I must say that there is now a list of 145 municipalities here and they are given citizens and total figures are given, so half of the columns are reserved for the applicable law, section – original incomes, established incomes, transfers and a similar system for the new bill. The question arises: what is the difference? This is where the financial difference is shown. If we translate that into indices and percentages and take the last item, it turns out that by 4.6% the total revenues of local self-government will increase. The question arises, where will this increase come from. Where do you take it? Now, that has some answers. You see, according to the current state and according to the applicable law, I take an example of the municipality, I have not taken the cities, so Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad are not in this story, because if only cities are observed, there is no increase and it is kept at the same level. So according to this model, 9.9 is the original income; 28.7 is applied; 7.9 is the total of 46.61. I'm talking in these decimals and this way, because this zero thing doesn't mean anything. Under the new law, if it went through, then the originals would go from 9.9 to 12.7. That means for so many citizens of local self-government, according to this law, which is 2.8, which is about 30% higher, local self-government would be affected on the basis of original incomes. Let's see what's going on with our incomes. They'd burn from 28.7 to 25.9. That's what the Republic gives to municipalities, less to municipalities. Transfers from 7.9 would rise to 10. So there's a difference. Now we are told here that it is epochal, that it is a consistent system that has long been in place, which removes all the problems we had when we passed the Budget Law, where they are part of that law of some provision, but special laws are passed where funds are given, determines the percentage of the participation of municipalities etc. I've cited this as an example to show that we're essentially concepts here. Let me remind you, according to the Budgetary System Act, the Ministry of Finance through its own, which is the competent administration, controls all local self-government. I don't mind, it's fine. While we were in power, if we had thought of that kind of control of each order, because you're setting quotas today, you approve of any payment, if by any chance it had been done before 2000, Serbia would have been additionally bombed. So if we had introduced things like you since 2001, Serbia would still be under heavy sanctions today. You brought this in. We have in principle criticised you both in 2001 and 2002 and are now in principle criticizing you. I must warn you, incomparably, we will better compare this regulation than you, even though it is bad, so take care when you change the best democratic solutions to even better democratic professional solutions, because from this you could conclude that all that has been done in this area has been a surplus from hollow to empty, and the only thing that hasn't changed is that the government, the Ministry of Finance and the political parties that are in power have absolute control over all the things that are happening in local self-government. I didn't put into this story the aspect of payment traffic, I didn't put into the aspect of public procurement, some other major aspects that have been influenced by the financing of local self-government and the financial operations of local self-government. It'll all open, books will be looked at. Just to remind you, by 2004, there were no public procurements in Nis, so when the inspection went away, she determined a disaster with that Zivkovic and Krstic and Kiric and then Mladjan Dinkic had to stop the budget inspection from reporting all that catastrophic data. Of course, criminal charges have been stopped. You know that, but that's what we'll do when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28620	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Yeah. ) The word is Savo Urošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28621	On account of my distinguished colleague, Zoran Krasic, I would like to say a few words. He told the complete lie when he found that by increasing the original revenues, the arrest would be increased by citizens. With this law, only the property tax ceased to be income, which is why the concession incomes of local self-government have become lower and have become higher original incomes, as the property tax has become the original income. From his resignation, he became original, no new arrests. In order to avoid any fellow MPs and to lead the public astray, I feel it was necessary to say this and correct my colleague Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28622	Thank you, Mr. Urosevic. This allowed Mr Krasic to appear wrongly in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28623	Mr. Markovic, I've been having problems with people who don't understand me very well for about a month, but I'm pretty sure they're also reading what's written. So, Article 6. The bill and that is one single position that has 16 points, the original incomes of local self-government units are determined. Just to remind you, Mr. Urosevic, you were not present, a gentleman from the SPS submitted the amendment and asked for a 17th point that applied to the incomes from the use of the drug factor, that it exists in our regulation, and we submitted an amendment to that article and then we explained in the amendment that we advocated to remain a property tax, but not to determine in the sense of Article 7 of the municipality the rate of property tax. It's regulated by law. Furthermore, a number of fees have been made here, but the rate at which these fees will be determined is within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit assembly. If income increases, the original incomes of the local self-government units, with 17 points of original income going to 16 points, that 17, as we understand it, was never active, because the Bane Act did not prescribe that amount of compensation and the only way to increase the original income is that the units of local self-government through their congregations determine a different rate and different method of accounting, because there is no other mathematics. Since there is no other mathematics, the SRS has proposed, Mr Urosevic, that item 1 of Article 6 reads - property tax, tax on the transfer of absolute rights, inheritance tax and gifts. Since the property tax, the transfer of absolute rights, inheritance and gifts, completely crosses and becomes the original income of local self-government, there is some space to express the autonomous will of the local self-government unit in terms of freedom of decision on how to finance. However, you have a simple situation that is completely different. You believe that the original incomes will increase by transferring something to the Republic as the original jurisdiction, as the original income to the local self-government unit. No, she even stated – except in Article 6(1), so other than the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and gifts. So that's what the Republic threw out, it doesn't want to give to municipalities, and we're asking the amendment to return to municipalities, to give municipalities that income, even though it's a republican income, but to become their income. Thank you. That's the difference, you need to read this a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28624	Here, you have the right to a replica, Mr. Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28625	I have to do it myself again, because it's about personal interpretation of the law. Mr. Krassic, you don't understand. There's a simple account here, and if you knew that bill, you wouldn't be studying law school, because usually those who know the bill and math don't study the rights. So you overlooked the fact that you tried to interpret the table and in that table you saw an increase in the original incomes, just because the property tax was declared a source income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28626	Mr. Urosevic, I didn't warn you about the data on private life, because it's not about that, it's about prejudice, and I'm standing here with my head and my beard that your prejudice isn't right. I had an excellent knowledge of mathematics, but I didn't define myself as a math student, so it doesn't apply to anyone. Thank you very much. Mr. Krassic, please tell me on what basis? This was a replica. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28627	Mr. Markovic, both 101 and 104, but now that there is no disabling the public, I will only ask you to read what is written in the explanation. I think when I read this explanation, you'll understand why I was a mathematical course in high school. It says – the news is that starting on 1 January 2007 property tax, other than taxes on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes, there are original incomes from the local self-government unit. Do you understand what the word "other than" means? This word indicates that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, the tax on gifts and inheritance that has been distributed in some way between the Republic and local self-government no longer becomes the original income of the local self-government unit, but remains only the property tax, and we have amendedly asked that the full tax on the transfer of absolute rights and the full tax on gifts and inheritance be the original income of the unit of local self-government. Why? The state rules its own laws on rates, and on the territory of the local self-government unit, what is being achieved becomes the income of the local self-government unit. As you can see, mathematics is not necessary here, but when you look at what is covered by Article 6 as the original income, so these others are taken, not only what is tax, but also these fees, etc. And look at why they've been increased, based on which they've been increased, from 16 points to 17. However, the 17th was never active. That math is very simple and simple. Source revenues are increasing, they can be increased by the fact that the municipality is prescribing a new one. You have laid down a provision for the municipality to prescribe a tax on property. How can the property tax be governed by the law, by the tax code of the Republic? How can you now transfer the authority to the local self-government unit to determine tax rates? Ask the Constitutional Court, ask your Vučetić. The difference is that taxes are prescribed by the Republic. Who's prescribing them? By law. Who's prescribing? The National Assembly adopts the law, determines the rates, determines what the basis is, determines how to charge. This law only regulates the issue of funds in terms of which it is the source of funds. You've messed everything up in this law. In this law you have inserted the procedure of making a decision on self-dependence. You've got it all wrong. Why? How is it possible to increase by 4% in municipalities? Idyla's on her way. What's the idyll going for? Because this law allows units of local self-government to change something in the system of original incomes that they could not change so far, it was already in the jurisdiction of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28628	I don't know about natural math and math, but in the socio-language word "except" it means "unless" it means last name except. Here you go, Mr. Perry, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28629	Mr. Markovic, I've come by the Rules of Procedure, since it's time to take a break and I suggest you give a break, invite the heads of Parliament and provide a few MPs to come and sit in this assembly. They are chosen to work in the Assembly, because if everything is abolished, I suggest that we cancel and that we do not tolerate amendments, because if no one comes to listen, that he will decide in the day of the vote, how he will plead on certain amendments. Next, today from those who hold power, from the party, from the DSS, from G17, 9+9, Velja Ilic has five MPs in all. The DSS has two and these young colleagues should look up to Professor Simonovic, who is always here in the benches, and if young colleagues are tired, they should give other mandates to work in this assembly. This is what I want to say for the public, for the voters. They should no longer vote for parties such as G17, DSS, 9+9, Velju Ilic, because they do not do their duty, what MPs will.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28630	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Since we work exclusively in the Rules of Procedure, of course the data you have presented is not accurate until the end, because they change at any moment, but in any case, it is done by the Rules of Procedure, so since I chair the Assembly, once again I ask you to take advantage of your authority and provide a conversation with the heads of Parliament. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28631	I'm just going to brief on something else to explain to Mr. Urosevic, since he and the president of the newly formed committee, and let me tell you this additional information, to give it to you. You may not have been in the hall when the amendment to Article 6 was discussed, which was filed by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and that word "except" which Mr Markovic now used in his wital sense, explaining that there was a misunderstanding or misunderstanding, she deleted it in Article 6 because the intention of the SRS to make original incomes and taxes available to the municipality increase, so in addition to erasing the words "except" in attitude 1. So that no such misunderstanding would occur, or you really do not understand it, or you do not understand the correctness of SRS and Mr Krasic's position. We are in favour of making the original income of the local self-government unit entirely in addition to all the above mentioned taxes on use, holding and carrying goods. The government of the Republic of Serbia has replied that the scope of that tax is unequal from the municipality to the municipality, and if the amendment were accepted, there would be huge damage to the republican budget for which otherwise the absent minister or correspondent, whatever you want to call it, since he is not here, praises that he has a surplus and is not accepted for that amendment. So, the intention of the SRS was clear, that larger revenues were given to local self-government units and your arguments were not standing and we are talking everywhere, and in places where we're councilors and where Serbian radicals are in power and where you're going to campaign now for these additional elections. It's only right, the only thing that's true is what we're saying, the account is clear, you can see it with a simple calculation. You don't need much math for that. One more thing to tell you, I don't know if this is your first or second term, the first term, you're not from those defects before, this party of yours has now entered parliament, never will again, your first term in the Assembly, you need to know that this multi-party assembly since the 1990s has had different structures when it comes to MPs. Because you have such a wrong mind, that's why you're failing on the political scene of Serbia. People's MPs must absolutely know everything about what's on the agenda, starting with the first among equals, the president of the Assembly. It would be just like if you told Predrag Markovic now that he didn't need to know anything about air traffic, maybe driving, maybe not driving by plane, it doesn't matter, maybe he doesn't mind, maybe he's not like Micun who spent more time in the air than he is president of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, but it's pointless, Mr. Urosevic, that with such arguments you perform. I expect you to understand absolutely everything, and if you are on a committee of directors, it is simply your parliamentary obligation. You can't come to your place and be asked by a citizen in a tribune what happened to the law in some legal area, in the field of information or environmental protection, and you say it's not your portfolio, you don't understand. Absolutely everything, if you want to be a safe and responsible MP, you need to know and follow, to follow the expert literature, to seek the opinion of people who do so. You're a national representative here, not you, but everyone, and it's an obligation to protect the interests of the citizens at all times.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28632	The word is from Ambassador Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Darko Glisic, an SRS MP, submitted an amendment to the draft law on the financing of local self-government and asked for Article 24 to be deleted. This matter is regulated by the Law of Local Self-Government. It's too high to have the same matter in two laws. I'd like to say something and use this time, for two and a half years now, this assembly of parliament has passed countless laws, a total of 239, you've perfected a Resava school on the orders of Western mentors. It is not Serbia's Netherlands, Denmark, England, that these laws are copied and are hardly applicable on our hilly Balkans. You've opened countless agencies, directors, management, you've increased the number of officials so the Ministry looks like my municipality of Commerce. It is the southernmost Serb municipality, the poorest, purest Serb municipality, a territory of 370km square, larger than the territory of the country of Malta that has 312km square. I'm saying that the Ministry looks like my municipality of Commerce because the Municipality of Trgovište has 6,411 residents, and there are 56 officials and 30 others who "cut" themselves for culture, municipal hygiene with a tendency to be even more, because every council member should be employed somewhere where the municipal budget, the councilor or one of its members is in place and that is, as soon as the term of office is over. The municipal budget is known to be filled with funding from the republican budget. It is known that the finance ministry does not have or does not want to have an insight into how the funds are available from the republican budget. The town of Trgovište is a lost territory. By the year 2000, something had worked, and by the time these "revolutionaries" got here, everything stopped and everything fell apart. The people are moving out, and the question is, what's it gonna be like? There in the Shop, anything can be done whenever you want. The municipal manager can announce the accession of the municipality to Macedonia, it implies St. Prohor Pcinjski. It is a Serbian monastery, the responsibility of King Milutin and nothing less than a referendum statement. Of course nothing can change that. God forbid one Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, takes such a course so that every 80 inhabitants are hired by one official in the municipal administration. Where will Serbia arrive if all cities in the Republic go this way? I ask the Ministry to determine budget and financial inspection, to come to the Shop and exercise control of the municipal budget. Let me know when he gets here. It's a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28634	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28635	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague Stevica Dedjanski has submitted an amendment to Article 25 and is proposing that he be deleted. Article 25 has nothing to do with funding local self-government. The financing of local self-government was regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. The consolidated text of Dinkic's law on the imposition of Serbia's citizens, on the financing of local self-government, requires the ruling coalition to adopt an urgent procedure, according to the G17 Plus party leaders. We're not against finding opportunities to fund local self-government, but we're not against such a law that is primarily of general character. He was written for those who would benefit greatly from him, but not for the citizens of Serbia. It is written for the multiplication of bureaucratic apparatus and at least for the development of local self-government, especially for the development of small and underdeveloped municipalities. He's dealing with various transfers that an ordinary citizen hasn't even heard of. For Minister Dinkic and his like-minded people, it is likely known what dedicated transfers are, so transfers for unification, compensation, transition, general. A public poll had to be conducted before, to ask how much they knew about these transfers and got a negative answer. We wonder with the right to whom this law was written, when it will affect their material position for sources of funding and for its implementation. In the light of the bill, some tables were given by experts, but only for them. It's hard to get along and understand. Wasn't it better to state in an explanation, even in the law itself, which are republican, administrative, and other fees and how much they cost? For example, several local self-governments should be listed with a proposal that is their administrative and communal fees in what amount. Like this, there'll be a great variety in the amount to the republican level. Citizens want to know how much money it takes for some belief of municipal or republican importance and when it will get it. The law must determine which citizen has the right to relief and be exempt from paying those fees. We believe that they must be unemployed and disabled persons, single mothers, wartime military disableds, as well as nursing households. This cannot be a matter of individual authorities of local self-government, but of the care of the highest authorities in Serbia. We also need to know how much to pay to get a copy of the birth certificate, i.e. birth certificate, a copy of the book of the married, the deceased, assurance of citizenship, passport, driver's license, hunting, fishing and ID card, how much it costs to build a house, stables, garages, how much it costs to bury, what it costs to pay for a living tax, what it costs to use and edit construction land, and how much it costs to protect and improve the environment. Can a Serbian citizen handle it in this current economic and social situation? Only those who have managed well and made a fortune at the expense of others in this troubled Serbia can bear this. And what about the self-indulgence of citizens this law speaks of a lot? Serbian citizens, regardless of whether they lived or lived in the city or rural settlements, singled out or allocated large funds to build objects that are important for their better life in their environment, built schools, churches, cemetery, homes, cultural, sports, health facilities, mail, roads, waterways and sewers. They build it with their own resources and work, and what happens after that. They teach these facilities to be used permanently to the state or public enterprises. They're being held in some environments, and in some, they're falling apart. Let public enterprises, republican or municipal, run their own policies and act like the boss of another man's house. The time has come for privatisation and they want to sell to a stranger or a domestic buyer for small money. They have the support of both the ministry and the Serbian government. I cite an example, gentlemen of the Parliament. In the 1970s, the people of Kruševec have allocated water supplies to drinking water for a decade. Now the Public Company "Vovovod-Kruševac" with certain municipality executives and with the support of the Serbian government wants to be in charge of an unverified French firm that will continue to build a water factory along with their project, carry out works and equipment and tomorrow become the owner of the Kruševska "Vodovoda". As representatives of SO Kruševac a month and a half ago, we received an explanation from the president of the municipality that the government of the Republic of France and the government of Serbia agreed to lend 6.5m euros to Kruševac. I'm just gonna tell you something about the Mayevo water line in Krushevac. We all know, in the former Yugoslavia, that Kruševac is first in the quality of water, that we are third in Europe, that the factory "Medevo" in Kruševec has a capacity of 650 liters per second of water. When the maximum heat and maximum consumption is spent up to 320 liters of water per second, we have over 300 liters of water reserve per second. Now the DSS gentlemen have seen that there are opportunities to earn, take some commission, make some money, and now Minister Loncar has ordered us to be in charge of a loan that is unnecessary. They make a decision at the session, a project for reconstruction and expansion of the water factory is approved. I'm asking here and I'm looking for an answer, asking as a parliamentary question to answer. There's a project that doesn't exist, this is a felony, and this is for prison. It's something amazing. I'm not much of an expert, I'm a craftsman, but some things for 28 years of work experience and running a private crafts shop I know. It's impossible to bring a project that doesn't exist. After all these events, last session of the SO, I think we are the first city in Serbia, a decision is made two weeks ago at the SO session on the amendment and addition of the decision to establish the JKP "Vovod" Kruševac. This is the first case in Serbia to change the decision on the establishment of a public enterprise, and Article 3 reads: "A percentage of the state capital of the public enterprise that will be the subject of privatisation". I would just ask if someone here answered me from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Minister of Local Self-Government, under which law on local self-government states that public enterprises can be privatised and what this means in the municipality of Kruševac with the water factory Majdevo-Celija-Kruševac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28636	Thank you very much. I assume Stevica Dedjanski will be pleased that you have explained his amendment to delete Article 25. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? People's MP Mita Avramov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28637	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed, explained, Mr Krasic has nicely explained these amendments to our 30s why they should be deleted. But what happened, the MP in front of the G17 plus group comes out here and says -- Serbian radicals can submit amendments, we won't adopt any, it'll be the way we want it to be. That explanation gave how at the local level their party is rising ratings, how radicals are defeated, that's some basis for them. And it's supposed to be a game, so whoever's better let him win, we absolutely don't mind. But the fight at that game must be even, that's all there is to know. It is not possible for various government ministers to appear on these pre-election campaigns and not to give their programme or to say something to that people, but the conditions of the people and say simply – if you will not vote for us, you will not get that, too. It looks like a government working on the same system to me. When someone in parliament shows up here and says, "If you don't give us some board of directors or something in the government, we won't support that law." Then the government is in trouble, it has to give in to one's demands to keep this government going. So it's analogy, as you do in government, that's how you do in the field. Unlike the government, we go out on the ground, we tell the people the truth, we tell the people what the situation is, we tell what we can and how much we can do to contribute to the improvement in that community where the elections are. What else is going on? Where the president of the municipality is someone from power, surely there is much more to be given to these municipalities, it helps them to go out to the people, that is how they are able, know, know, be better to win the next election. I don't know about many municipalities, but for one municipality, I know, for example, the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica received 300 million dinars for the infrastructure. That those 300 million dinars that were given to Sremska Mitrovica were divided into six other municipalities certainly so that everyone would have a lot to fix, do and groom. Most likely that 300 million were sent to Srem, but in this case she only got one municipality that works today, where citizens are most likely satisfied with that money. They can do a lot of things. I'd be happy if I got 30 million, for those 30 million dinars, the Shid municipality would be gilded. But we're doing it again in various ways to meet the citizens so they can feel at least part of living in the 21st century. The SO was talking to the government, though the oral agreement existed by our coalition partners so that we could introduce a communal tax on heavy cargo vehicles. Since we are a border municipality, many heavy cargo vehicles avoid highways, destroy our infrastructure, and we are the only devolved municipality in Vojvodina, of which we have nothing, we asked for this communal tax to be introduced so that we can repair the infrastructure. Until today, we can't take that tax into action because it won't charge the police at the border crossing, or customs, and there's no one else to charge. I'm asking now... And I won't tolerate too much time, you're done. ) As local self - administration, we set up one house, one ramp, and charge that communal fee exclusively for heavy goods vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28638	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Dejansky, but I doubt he'll approve. It's a joke, since it's Mr. Dejansky's amendment. Member of the 26th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. At 4:00, there'll be a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28639	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by counterpart Branislav Rankic, who, meanwhile, was elected president of the Bora municipality two weeks ago with 65% of voters. He submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS and before he was elected to the presidency, but given the position and the programme of Serbian radicals, what we talked about, we were practically on the amendments to self-delivery, putting it into the smallest detail of the Law on the financing of local self-government, instead of in the Law on Local Self-Government where it is, we talked about many examples of how it was before, what could have been done, where funds were used, in which decades ago the means of self-delivery were being misused, and that superiority of representatives of the SRS indeed, I speak neither pretentiously nor without false modesty, everywhere and in every place came out of sight, especially in those municipalities where Serbian radicals were in power. We will talk about the successes of counterpart Branislav Rankic in a few months and you will see that the locals who had the right to vote there did the right thing, as well as the SRS who ran him. Let's talk about the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government as the private law of Mladjan Dinkic and the Party of G17, it's quite obvious that these yellow thieves from DS, because it's all made so that this DS-G17 clan can have all the resources from the level of the Republic at its disposal as they want to, to direct transfers, we'll talk a lot later about the amendment of counterpart Mircic, that the AP can, in certain circumstances, direct a dedicated transfer to a specific unit of local self-government. You don't expect the AP to send the transfer to Novi Sad as the largest construction site and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, the most successful mayor in Serbia, because it's a mob and thieving organisation there. They lie and deceive people in all the local elections that are now in Serbia, Pula and wherever they are, promising a sports hall, markets, roads, various investments, of course there is nothing. As the government successfully manages without self-deploying, an obvious example of this is the town of Novi Sad and the success that Mrs. Gojkovic has as mayor of Novi Sad and only on what happened yesterday, which you may have read or heard on TV, I am surprised that fellow Humane, who is not here now, has not pointed out this example, but has spoken a variety of nonsense when it comes to SRS officials and in the manner in which they exercise power, because there is no counterargument for this law that is bad, which takes away the right of local self-government to be independent and decentralised. You just know it. When it comes to adding figures and millions of amounts that are now going to be taken by Dinkic and Novi Sad, because in Vojvodina it is only the case, because it is the biggest pain and thorn in his eye, the success of this city and the mayors of Mrs Gojkovic and in all other municipalities and cities where there are two or three G17 councillors, and that is the question of how they came and crossed the censorship, because now your biggest problem is to reach 2%, and 3% is already many, and about these 5% for the republican elections that I don't talk about. The people of Futoga waited 25 years because Novi Sad is one of the most sports cities in Serbia and by mass youth and school sport and by professional clubs and awards and achievements that clubs and individuals have there, 25 years ago people waited to build them a sports hall. When it was made, it was open yesterday. Who set the cornerstone – Maja Gojkovic a year ago. In a year, a 5,000-square sports hall was built. When you have a similar example in a smaller municipality, some similar success, not only of you who are in the hall, but of all representatives of various coalitions that are mainly made to prevent the SRS, even where the president is a Serbian radical, the kind of coups are made to make a man obstruct, so that a man could not normally exercise power from within his jurisdiction, then go out to the assembly pay phone and boast of something. Don't go on defending this law, because it's extremely bad. At the end of each budget year, you will see by the inflow of funds under this law, that every municipality in Serbia is linearly every one damaged, especially those in which Serbian radicals have been in power, because the powers of the minister are such that he can do whatever he wants and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, now and the AP. Then what are we talking about here? What balance and fairness of this law? No one can tell us anything contrary to our claims, because you are obviously not ready to answer these amendments, you have no arguments, or that's the kind of labeling and the kind of reviews a colleague named Homan said this morning, the minister doesn't have anything, he doesn't care, it's important that in the day of voting, he's the boss, he put his paw on everything, he manages in a certain way and local self-governments and decides who he's going to go to the money for. By our work, pawning and results like those in Novi Sad, in the municipality of Šid, in the municipality of Zemun, in other municipalities where radicals are in power, and especially during a certain period, there will be a visible shift in Bor where the applicant of the amendment, Col. Rankic, has gained the confidence of citizens, we will justify the expectations of people and make their life better and better in the cities where they live, which you are obviously unable to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28640	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I know, from Golupac to Ariel 26 last year, but please, there's no reason to talk about it right now. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stojan Tintor. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srjo Komazec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28641	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government. Article 29. The proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government reads: "The rate of self-delivery is proportionate and is determined by decision. Relievements and reliefs in the payment of self-sufficients are determined by a decision." In my amendment, I suggested that this member be deleted. Article 29. The proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government provides for proportionate rates to be determined by a decision on the introduction of self-indications, the possibility of introducing reliefs and the release from self-delivery. The problem of the rate requires serious analysis of the following issues. The first question is certainly a question of the type of rate and determination between progressive or proportionate rates. The justification for introducing proportionate and progressive rates is conditioned by different elements. This could, as a fundamental point, point out: the economic power of the citizens of the unit in which self-supply is introduced, economic development, the existing level of infrastructure development, the position and involvement of units in infrastructure systems at regional and republican levels, the interest of investors and other external entities for investment in the field of units etc. Many of these elements cause the fact that some local units will be eligible for the introduction of progressive and some proportional rates of self-dependence. It is important to note that certain projects may face a situation where the most just introduction of funding obligations in equal amounts is the most fair. Of course, these are the reasons why the solution to the issue should be left to local units and decision-makers, who will, in a specific situation based on concrete conditions and projects and decide on the question of the rate. The second question is whether the borders of regular competences are crossed in this way and entering into the field of exclusive jurisdiction and autonomy of decision-makers, thus limiting both the jurisdiction and the possibility of autonomous decision-makers, or whether decision-makers are able to resolve this issue themselves. In the analysis of this issue, it is important to bear in mind that decision-makers are citizens, and that these restrictions are essentially limited by the Constitution of guaranteed rights, not by the possibility of solving their life problems in the best way. Only these two outstanding issues clearly state that the law in question does not need to be defined exclusively for proportionate rates and that it is necessary to leave this issue to decision-makers, which is why the member in question needs to be deleted in full. Deleting this member shall also require a draft of Article 21(6). I hope that the MPs in the voting day will support my amendment and that this bill will thus improve as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28642	Thank you, Mr. Komazec. Does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28643	Mr. President, in your absence, several MPs today insisted that the debate at the National Assembly be attended by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Kolega Obradovic said he would consult and ask if you know where Mladjan Dinkic is and during the work he will inform us about it and that it will depend on whether we will continue to work or we will take a break until we wait for someone to bring Mladjan Dinkic here. Given that we've reached Article 32, we've crossed half the job of this amendment law, and we still don't know why there's no Mladjan Dinkic, why he doesn't want to hear what we want to say. We address fellow Members of the Parliament, even so-called empty room on this majority so-called side. We are speaking to the public of Serbia, but we are certainly speaking to the government's authorised representative, to communicate with him, we may convince him to accept some amendment, regardless of the Mladja aversion towards the SRS and the fact that he cannot sit here and listen to what we are saying about his very bad bill proposals. As Krasic said today, we do not burn anything out of the desire to look at it, but as a necessary evil, or as the fact that he is still a minister in the government, we are willing to sacrifice ourselves so much to watch him, but we ask you to ensure that he attends. On your behalf, Mr. Obradovic promised to tell us what happened to the minister. Since I don't expect you to say it, nor do I expect to hear any explanation, or end this amendment, and then we'll find out where Junior is. I will talk about an amendment relating to article 32 of the proposal of the Youth's private law on the financing of local self-government. Why do I claim this is his private law? It may well be seen, or among other things, in Article 32. Article 32. The bill of law has two attitudes. The first point is said: "The local government authority responsible for finance keeps records of the incomes generated by the leases per user". All right, regular. We now have attitude 2: "The revenue of Article 1 is used for the purchase, construction, running repairs and maintenance of buildings and buildings and supplies and maintenance of equipment". Now anyone who has ever had any connection with local self-government, even citizens who come into contact with local self-government in terms of seeking out a lease of some business space, etc., will wonder at this provision. The biggest revenues the municipality, the local self-government can make, the actual biggest revenue source is precisely from the issue of business space. Happy is every municipality that has more business space, it is a greater possibility of taking more money for rent and that means better, easier functioning of local self-government. Instead of local self-government having the motive to build new business spaces, business facilities, so that, besides these existing ones, there are even more leases, or funds than leases, it can't do that. Why would she do that when she has the second position of this member who says, imagine who you are, I really have to say, totally stupid, nebulous, pointless provision, useless, I don't know what term to use, to be real. Therefore, that the maximum amount of revenue that should be the basis for the good functioning of local self-government must be spent exclusively for the purchase and construction of ongoing repairs and maintenance of buildings and facilities and supply and maintenance of equipment. So that money can only spin in exactly the same area and citizens still have no use for it. That is why, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that this position be deleted. It must not, nor can anyone local self-government limit or direct how, where and in what way it will use the funds it generates as income from local self-government. Of course, we have nothing against the controls based on the law, on the control of use, on the prevention of possible abuses, because we support all of this. My people, what the municipality is going to do, if they just turn that money around by getting paid to invest in new buildings of business space, when these couples, as they stand here in the law, can't build a single street, or a meter of plumbing, or a sewer, or fix a school, hospital, home of health. So nothing the local self-government of these funds can do, but what Junior drew, and probably again there's something in his head or some future draft law that needs to be done in this way to make local self-government literally buy or build even more business space. We don't mind, but not in this way and then prepare some law on the cheap purchase of these business spaces, because something abnormal is hiding behind this. If there was nothing to guess what this other attitude is hiding, then really without thinking, the government would accept the amendment to delete the attitude, because it's really completely pointless that local self-government, some municipality, the City of Kragujevac, any municipality, doesn't matter, and that all the funds they get from the lease can be used exclusively for one single purpose. In this way, the possibility is limited and in fact local self-government and municipalities are placed in a situation that they cannot do anything about what citizens expect and what some other laws ultimately provide for as an option for local self-government. Where they're going to take the money, if it's not from this lease or this means you can't spend it, but that's why you have to take credit from banks, maybe from this "Meridian bank" with which it's concluded these days, I read, a contract related to these housing loans. It seems that what Dinkic and Mladja used to argue publicly on TV, well, Dinkic and Djelic, it's so funny that I really don't know how someone doesn't die of laughter, so Dinkic and Mladja are also fighting, because Dinkic is a double personality, and we used to tell you about it, because there's been some diagnosis about it, and now Dinkic and Djelic have been fighting about the assignment of housing loans. For this and such thiefic criminal reasons, for these thieving and criminal connections of G17 Plus officials and those of the yellow thieving company, such laws are created that are not for the citizens of Serbia, which are not for the improvement of the functioning of local self-government, but solely for the private laws of Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28644	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Of course, I am obliged to honor the promise that I have not made, although in accordance with the Rules of Procedure it is not necessary for the minister to be present and, of course, in the principle debate, he is the Proposer when it comes to amendments, the MPs are the MPs and always the president, you know, before that is the talk, because the amendments of the MPs are important and therefore they have a threefold chance of being adopted. So they are being sent to the Government and this is being reported to the MPs, I am telling those who may not know it in detail, so, then or before, they are being considered on committees and this is being reported to the MPs. The president also decides, please, there is always someone from the ministry, the Government is a Proposer, there is always someone, you are absolutely right and it is present in case there is an argument that allows any minister from the government to accept the amendment, if the argument is convincing, but of course, the President of the Assembly has to take care of everything that is going on in the country and at the same time make sure that money is saved, so it must not be done at the same time, in order to formally create one theoretical option, block the country's work. Yes, I have sent Minister Dinkic to participate in the work of the government and if necessary, at the first signal from the ministry representatives who are here or an additional argument that allows some amendment to be accepted further, of course a break will be made immediately and any of the ministers will be invited to accept it. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to members of 33 and other members showing up. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28645	First, Mr. Markovic, the word "respects" does not exist in Serbian and that is your first mistake. The second is that you had no right at all by the Rules of Procedure and by Article 27 or 28 governing the authority of the President of the Assembly, to send the Minister here and here, because his obligation under that same Rules of Procedure was to be present at the sitting and if you did so, you violated the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28646	Ms. Jovanovic, please be kind, I interrupt you because only the president can interrupt the speaker, you probably didn't follow closely, I gave an explanation under Articles 87 and 88 that are just talking about who can participate, not attend. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28647	However, it is the fact that the minister is not here and that we are talking to a few MPs, which is only a few from one political party, and from these other ruling parties absolutely no one is and it is not good for this camera to be so fixed on the speaker, that it is not seen that the hall is empty and that there are mostly SRS MPs who defend these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28648	Please, Miss Jovanovic, for the respect of the Parliament's dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28649	You don't have any, you should respect dignity, because if you had respected it, Mr. Markovic, you just made a declaration, you wouldn't suggest as president of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28650	Miss Jovanovic, just a moment, that's what I'm doing right now, I interrupted you by the Rules of Procedure to honor, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28651	... Such a Rules of Procedure, which will allow MPs to be scribbled during the debate on such an important law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28652	Ms. Jovanovic, please, for a moment, that due to the dignity of the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, where only the president can interrupt the speaker, for his dignity to give an accurate notice. At this hour, five MPs, counting on you, one parliamentary group, please, are present in the session room. And 11 MPs from the parliamentary groups who have not submitted the amendment, I never speak of names, are in the session room. Also, citizens know very well...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28653	Did you count yourself? Where you're a political stranger...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28654	Be kind, therefore, the citizens know that it is not necessary to sit in the sitting room in order to follow the course of the session. It can be traced through the internal network to any hall, and of course, as citizens can...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28655	Of course, in the home atmosphere, with ercondišin included, with lemonade etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28656	I give you a warning, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28657	Will you let me talk about the amendment, not talk like 300 an hour without saying anything? You've interrupted me twice against the Rules of Procedure, let me talk about the amendment and give me an explanation when I'm done, if you realize that I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure out of my presentation. Now I will refer to the amendment tabled by my colleague Radovanovic, who you said was of principled nature. It's not just a matter of principle, it's the only possible thing when it comes to the responsibilities of the ministries in the Republic of Serbia, as the SRS sees. You always give us, when the ruling structure, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the same explanation for all the laws, when we ask that the word "minister" be changed to "ministration", the same explanation, no matter what resolution it is and which law on the agenda. In this case, to make it clear to the citizens to these correspondents who follow through the internal network, I don't know if there's any transmission at all at this point, because one time it was interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28658	Please don't get Miss Jovanovic. If they don't go through the internals, they have a direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28659	Do not warn the Messengers of the SRS whether they earn or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28660	Miss Jovanovic, this is a second warning. I don't make a difference who's in which party. I've already warned you that this has changed a lot, and I can't take care of it. I'm taking care of all MPs so they don't interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28661	And why are you so nervous, Mr. Markovic? If it wasn't time for something so you're nervous, and there's no one to replace you? It's 15.05, I really don't know why you're nervous. As far as you're concerned, the MPs of your political party and group are laughing at you, because your anxiety really doesn't lead to anything. If it's not the minister, you don't have to be nervous. Let me explain the amendment that we've submitted, which goes in favor of all of these, to correct one of these bad laws. So, when it comes to donations, the way they are received, not the minister, but the Ministry of Finance and Local Self-Government, we feel that the whole member is not good, and it is not only this principled reason that the word "minister" is changed to "minister" but that whole income from donations, Article 33, the title and what it refers to is not well done, but we have kept ourselves only on this correction. I'll say that the development of local self-government units, relying on donations, whether they arrive or not, is quite wrong. Such a strategy had a previous DOS government, mayors who were mayors of Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis in previous mandates and proved that this strategy was not good, and that many have misused the position they were elected to or placed on because they were not purposelessly spending a lot of funds, and a budget inspection after taking over from newly elected people, as in Novi Sad, the budgetary inspection of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, has never come to make an end of the situation and to see how these donations have been spent. We are a society that has an undeveloped and ruined economy, an undeveloped communal infrastructure, many parts of Serbia that are really in a difficult situation and settlements almost cut off from urban areas, such as some villages that are difficult to reach. Now, if it's about donations and someone's good intentions, it's been shown to us, and the experience tells us, back in these six years, that mostly those who brought these donations, regardless of whether it was education, health, municipal infrastructure, were with certain hidden intentions. They, I think of representatives of certain Western countries, and especially the former US ambassador, played a special role in all of this, and now, mostly, they played a role, which they did, the political mentors of those political parties who, thanks to the global fraud that took place on October 5, 2000, came to power, but later, since they gave to these mayors and the presidents of the municipalities of a million donation, did not want to see how these funds were spent. In Kragujevac there was malfeasance and abuse, in Novi Sad, there was a bunch of criminal charges sent to the authorities and Mrs Gojkovic herself when she was elected mayor, ate the donkey wolf, which our people would say nothing to anyone. The one who was the deputy and former mayor here, now Bogdanovic in Novi Sad – Novakovic, Bogdanovic, does what he wants, whoever controlled him, was much talked about by Mr. Vukic in the pre-election campaign and in the abuses of these major projects such as the Belgrade Arena, then parking in Pioneer Park and other projects where numerous abuses were quite obvious, and where much money was washed. When it comes to projects that need to replace these donations with this law that will deprive many cities of transfer funds and most of all, what we have seen is to take away the town of Novi Sad, because there are only three councilors there and because there is a successful mayor, Mrs. Serbian Radical. You should also see that, for example, capital projects, investment is looking for the possibility to finance local self-government, along with these original incomes, it is certainly some big job that the president of the municipality is able to bring into his city, encourage citizens and let hope for them that they will get better. I will remind you of the largest project that has yet to be implemented in Serbia, which is the construction of a gas thermal power plant in Novi Sad. The contract was signed weeks ago. Our political opponents, particularly those thieves from the autonomial parties in Vojvodina, tried to challenge the 609m-euro capital project, which is the largest city today, intervening personally Mr Tomislav Nikolic and joining what was the motto of his campaign for the presidential elections, the West and the East, because they are financing the project from Switzerland, and the project will be conducted by the Russian company, making moves that could mean that this city and those people who will find employment in the next few years will be okay. We have no objection to donations if they are not a condition for something, but as I said, they were usually a condition for political obedience and for implementing policies that did not contribute to our country, to our people, such as all these various projects that individuals from the government were diversified, which came from countries that had other hidden intentions. It's not just a technical matter, it's a whole member and the way the grant contract is going to be implemented, and this three-month period to create certain sublegal acts gives us the suspicion that there's going to be a lot of abuse in the future, as we've had examples so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28662	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Ambassador Milorad Mircic has submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28663	Mr Mircic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 34(2) and requested that the attitude be deleted, which reads: "AP can assign a local self-government unit to a dedicated transfer". If there weren't a bad interpretation of what I'm saying, I'd just remind myself that a dedicated transfer is defined by Article 2. It's a bill, and it's a very precise article 45. It's a bill of law. In explaining what a dedicated transfer is, it moves from the word Republic. The Republic may provide the local self-government unit with a dedicated transfer to carry out certain tasks within their original or trusted work. So, an integral part of the definition and the concept of a dedicated transfer in a narrow sense, is the word Republic. In order for you to understand me better, and I am proving that an autonomous province cannot carry out that transfer as proposed by Article 34, Article 2, I am now going to use some argument contained in the previous members. In Serbia since the constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in September 1990, so-called "The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia" has been promoted. form of single-degree local self-government. This means that the local self-government unit has only the Republic above it. If in the creation of a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, someone manages to force those who would like to extend their stay at some function that means destroying the military as one of the possible variants of the new concept of local self-government, so-called. the concept of two-degree local self-government. Since this is still in theoretical discussions at the university, and those dealing with the Constitution have no idea what it is, we have to say that we are practically in the concept of a one-stage local self-government, and when it comes to funding local self-government, it is impossible for an autonomous province to be in a position to assign this dedicated transfer, because the principle that is still in force under this Constitution is that each body is in charge under the law and the Constitution of the prescribed powers, that there is some balance, sometimes there is mutual control, which is not controversial, but it is not so important for this member and this concept error. It's one flaw, and I'm just surprised the Legislative Secretariat didn't warn you that something like this couldn't stand in this law. However, this is not such a big problem, it can be a reason, since it is a serious lack of this bill, to immediately bring a representative of the government with the police because this changes the content of the law, this amendment changes the concept, so when you bring him in or inform the government's representative I would show you in the case of article 32 how you have ruined constitutional norm, write something that might look like private law. In Article 32, it is stated that the local authority of the financial authority shall keep records of the revenues obtained from the leases by users. Some MPs I see here in the O.R. will understand what I'm talking about, I know most people won't understand what this is about. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, the local self-government unit is authorized to use and manage the real estates of state property located in its territory, which the Republic has transferred to the use of local self-government. It is usually about the immovableities that are necessary for local self-government to perform its functions, so let's say the immovableities where the municipal authorities of the administration are located can be even public services of municipal importance, but there is also a business space that is given for commercial purposes, and the right to use and to give to use has units of local self-government. Depending on development, local self-government and businesses have entrusted their public enterprises such as the Business Space Directorate, the Public Business Area. You will agree that municipal public enterprises of the type "business space" are not local authorities of the administration, but are organisations that are still doing business in favour of and for the interest of local self-government. Since in most municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, issues of publishing in the lease of state space work by such organisations, you are forcing us to vote for Article 32 which is absolutely inapplicable, or in translation would mean that all units of local self-government are obliged to shut down their public undertakings for the management of business space so that the local administration authority can keep records. This is a mental error because this is written by a man who has no idea how local self-government works. If he had any more understanding, he would know that this area regulates the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, he would have to know. Only exceptionally, when doing business in your jurisdiction, means the Republic, entrusts its work to a local self-government unit, is defined which body it could be. If there is a particular interest then it is said that it must be the assembly of the local self-government unit, but it is never going to define that allegedly competent authority to which jobs are transferred under the assembly, never. It is never said – the competent authority in the local self-government unit. Why? Because we have no right to enter a unit of local self-government, because local self-government is protected, it is constitutionally guaranteed and we can only move within our jurisdiction. We can prescribe a law by some authority or by some organisation within the competent state authority, but within the framework of the organisation structure of local self-government, we must by law not interfere with their independence, so that the existing Law on Local Self-Government, former and all future, allows this autonomy of local self-government to prescribe its organisation and arrange the organisation of administration within local self-government. So, on three small concepts, there's no small difference here. This is a clean private law of someone who wants to cheer and dress. The revenue of Article 1(1), I am talking about Article 32 as a great reason to bring in a representative of the Government, because the amendments submitted by the SRS change the view of certain things governed by existing laws. We cannot now pass a law that is contrary to the constitutional system and to some much more important and significant laws than this law, so before this matter is already regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28664	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28665	I'll keep going. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28666	I'm not worried, I'm letting you. You have time to talk about the amendment to Article 34, and I allow you the way you speak. I'm just letting you know that the amendment to article 32 has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28667	I know it's passed, but I'm just making contact with Article 34(2) to show you that the motioner violated the constitutional and legal position in the Republic of Serbia, by adopting such a non-serious and poor bill. Now, Article 32, paragraph 2, is absolutely inapplicable. Why? It could only refer to the space that local self-government authorities use for their work because it determines that the rent-based income must be spent on maintaining the facility. But you go on in Section 2, and you say you can buy those funds. Look, you've dropped the concept of the law on the property of local self-government. You can't go into property rights with this law. This is a law on how to raise funds to finance local self-government operations. Take care of what you do. You forgot just one more thing, the Republic of Serbia when it transferred the right to use units of local self-government to business spaces and immovableities located on the territory of local self-government units, we have two or three statuses of these immovableities. We have a real estate that is the most attractive, what is being built in Belgrade to issue a business space, and therefore local self-government is gaining funds. You have a situation where this business space is given to public services where your budget law says they are not obliged to pay the rent. You have a local self-government that uses and can't afford to pay his own rent. So by definition this applies to so-called. commercial things where local self-government is authorized to lease and charge. Did you make a commitment here that they were obliged to maintain these facilities? Just to remind you, there's another category of property. Sometimes when good investors appeared, so the socio-economic interest was found to give him the location, he did not have to pay for the location of the connection, etc., the charge would be made in the size of the business space in the facility and it is state property. Why am I walking you through these categories like that? To see that you were totally wrong, the concept was totally missed. He's contrary to several laws that are in force. Here, this one of the assets of the Republic of Serbia since 1995, and even that powerful DOS with 180 MPs had no courage, knowledge and courage to change the regulation more significantly. But you can see how some very dangerous things are pushed on the little door here. As you pushed the denationalisation through the SPC, which did not even ask for the return of property with the right to dispose, but rather the return of property for use and for the permanent use of these immovableities. It is this dangerous theory that is lurking across regulations that defends in the Assembly as a representative of the Government the one who is absent today. I know, you're going to vote it all well, I'm saying this more because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if there's a transmission, that it's simply understood that here is the concept of destruction. There's no local self-government here, you'll see later when we get to Article 60, 61, etc. Here's the concept - to break up. Why break it up? In 2001, it was a concept – to concentrate, so Djindjic would have control over his not being kidnapped, and now you feel the loss of power at the republican level, so that you seemingly decentralised it, kobajagi to create independent centres of power to start again at some point an orchestrated story about the central government shutting down local self-government. You're not shutting down these laws, you're destroying the foundations and roots of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28668	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28669	In Article 35, Mr. Markovic, I suggested that the 40% profit rate for underdeveloped municipalities be increased to 60%. I suggested this because in underdeveloped municipalities there are very few workers, which from underdeveloped municipalities workers do in larger municipalities and in larger cities besides underdeveloped municipalities. Many workers have also been checked out of these municipalities for various reasons, for reasons to come up with privileges either at the employment bureau or during treatment or for all other major cities. And there are poor little underdeveloped municipalities quite damaged. Since enterprises don't work in underdeveloped municipalities, there's a small number of employees. The only jobs and from that small budget are by municipalities and what is related to the budget, and in particular in 2000, the number of workers per municipality, according to the directorates and what can be paid from the municipal budget has been doubled, this democracy has particularly brought about since 2000 to this day. Therefore, I suggest, that few of these municipalities can live, that they can reconcile their needs, do something to see, something for citizens who are in these villages in undeveloped municipalities, stay there to preserve the village, not to move, not to empty villages, not to bring Serbia down to cities only, etc. I think this amendment could use those municipalities. The law on underdeveloped municipalities was passed, there were some additional funds for these municipalities, but even after so many years they were still underdeveloped, so there was little help. Through this law, I think that undeveloped municipalities should have been looked at, and it's quite in the place of my amendment, and it won't hurt anyone very much, and it's going to get a small number of municipalities, I think there are 30 municipalities that need these funds for undeveloped. So, I repeat again, I suggested that instead of 40%, 60% of the profit tax remains undeveloped municipalities. I think the amendment is real and that is why I pray, although there are not many MPs, the president said that MPs are watching it through television, but I don't think this network here in the building is working, so they're unable to hear me, even though they're sitting in the offices might not be able to hear me and they won't know in the day to vote how to give up. But, please, colleagues, since they are here from the Radical Party, to pass on to their colleagues and everyone else, at least one or two of the other parties, which is so that they can influence them to vote on my amendment to Article 35 in the day of voting, and that means that only underdeveloped municipalities instead of 40% of the profits are estimated at 60% of the earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28670	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 35 that we have submitted is simply a continuation of the story that our colleague Hranislav Peric spoke of, with him looking at it from one angle that is undeniable and completely justified, and we have proposed as one comprehensive approach to consider another possibility. In fact, Article 35 simply reminds me, it refers to the incomes of the tax paid, which are all incomes and in point 6) provides that 40% of the income tax paid to the employee's residence is to be paid to the municipality. We have suggested that this amount be replaced by 50%. Before I say why we suggested it, I am speaking in general for all municipalities, not just what Hrana Perić was justifiably talking about the undeveloped option, I am talking about the whole, about all municipalities. But before I explain why we suggested it, let me briefly remind the MPs of the government's response. The government said in its reply: "Amendment is not accepted, since the bill provides for a compensatory transfer, which replaces part of the lost income resulting from a change in the Republic's tax rules, and also from a reduction in the profit tax rate." You know for a fact that at this meeting, the amendments to the law on the reduction of the income tax rate are in place. I'm looking at this answer, but what I'm saying is that it wasn't a motive that made us suggest a 50% increase. I also respect that the government wanted the basic concept of this bill to be based on improved horizontal unification, i.e. redistributing funds to the most fiscally poor municipalities. And I respect that answer. But that wasn't the motive for the amendment either. Therefore, both responses that are undoubtedly correct do not respond to the amendment's proposal. Why? It's a completely different approach. In fact, the SPS parliamentary group believes that income based on profit tax has a significant share, under number one – in the total revenues of local self-government units, but also, under number two – this is the most stable income of local self-government. Of course, that's exactly what's more important. Why do we think we should increase everyone? First, this trend of decentralisation cannot be implemented without decentralisation of funds. What motivated us to propose this, which is our view, is that if it was increased to 50%, in which case the municipalities could go more safely to improve, above all local infrastructures, as a backbone and assumptions for the economic development of the country as a whole. And our view is that economic development is one of the most important, i.e. the most important goal that is set before our country and which can only be long-term to ensure that citizens' standards are increased as an objective criterion for assessing the success of this goal. So we are motivated to increase these funds, but to invest in development, not in wages and not in other costs. We know that the gross municipalities in Serbia, in fact, the largest number of municipalities, knowingly in possession of such municipalities, focus on wages and costs, and at least have for development in their environments. Another reason is to raise the municipality's responsibility, if they are already involved, if they are already getting funding, they must take responsibility for such a thing. In doing so, I don't think the state should give up control. So, with decentralised resources, the independence of municipalities at their disposal, the state should not give up control, even I think that this National Assembly should do much more to control the availability of finance in Serbia. Something happens that in the National Assembly over the past period, very many laws have been passed that have resulted in huge resources and the Assembly is somehow done here, and when it comes to what happens to these funds, how they are spent, whether they are spent in accordance with the law, the Assembly is sort of aside. Besides, let me remind you, since 2001, this assembly has never once considered the state's final account proposal. During that time, we were listening, reading in the papers that the previous minister in the government had damaged 700 million of the budget, the one for not knowing how much etc. But it wasn't an idea either, I've talked about it many times, and of course I'll talk about it later when it comes to control, about the need for the Assembly to take that part of the job on itself. At this point, we are talking about the need for the Assembly to provide conditions to create opportunities through the law, for municipalities to have larger resources aimed at the development of the municipality. Simply put, such a principle will allow for the even development of municipalities in Serbia. Each, I repeat, I would not question the basic concept of the law, which is the horizontal alignment at the expense of the rich to get more poor, I'm talking about all the municipalities, that it's a system, I'm talking about it being necessary to solve this issue in a system way. We have a situation that only in this way can we overcome, which at this point is unacceptable. When elections are announced somewhere in some municipalities, ministers leave, make asphalt roads, resolve municipal issues, etc. It's not a system, it's an abuse. We think it should be systemically arranged. For these reasons, and not because we are afraid that the municipality will get less funding, not because we want to violate the system of horizontal unification, but because we think that funding of local self-government is a priority, especially in the development of a structure that is the basis for economic development in general, we believe that this percentage should be greater, in particular 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28672	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. As someone who presides from this place, you are absolutely right, several times today has been mentioned, and I personally insisted, this assembly has passed the Law on the Supreme Auditor, because the Assembly cannot, but the institution established by this assembly, an institution that would be a professional, has considered final accounts and has given them up for adoption to accept this report to the Assembly. I also ask you personally, and others who have talked about this today, to check, for six months the parliamentary groups have not proposed a member of the Council, which is a prerequisite. The assembly did its part, called a tender, is preparing, but unfortunately, no Supreme Auditor has yet to be formed. I'm asking you to take care of it, because the pay phone, and I don't mean what you're saying, of course, is possible to convince that one, seven, is less than one. We listened to that today even with mutual prejudices. One is the waist, one is the numbers, one is the obligation. What has been seriously done by all MPs, in order to be implemented, is necessary for the parliamentary groups to make little effort and agree and pray on behalf of all of you once again that members of this council are offered as soon as possible. Here you go, Mr. Urosevic, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28673	To a large extent, I agree with Mr Petronivic's discussion. I think this discussion of his is knocking on the open door. So 50%, as required by his amendment, has already been provided through increased transfers to local self-government. It is known that the law has increased the transfer from 1,175 to 1.7% of the gross social product. This securely provided the amount of funds for local self-government because changes to the Tax Act and contributions to personal income cannot be precisely modelled that the amendment to the Law on Contributions relating to the Census of 5,000, in which the municipality will act. In transfers, we have secured a secure mechanism that none of the municipalities in Serbia will be damaged by changes in regulations. We also have a transfer to balance and a compensatory transfer and a transition transfer. There is a finesse of possibilities that potentially reducing funds to local self-government can be fully compensated. I think the law fully provides for even development and decentralisation, and these are the first steps in decentralisation, but even without the first ones, they can't go any more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28674	The word has been made by MP Hranislav Peric, on the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28675	Mr. Markovic, I wanted to, as it is a member of the 35th and that there is no replacement of the thesis, both amendments given to Article 35 are acceptable. A colleague, Misa Petronijevic, asked that in all municipalities, just to clarify, the percentage of 40 be 50%, and if he was accepted, it would be good for all municipalities. I asked only for undeveloped municipalities from 40 to 60. Therefore, in order not to replace the above, both amendments can be accepted. That would be good for all municipalities, especially the underdeveloped. I hear some speakers here advocate that equality has been achieved, there's not much justice. By this law, whoever has it will have it, and whoever has it will not have it again. Again, I insist on the amendment, let us help poor municipalities and not only bring Serbia down to cities. Some people here complain and they're scared and they say, there's already an increase, a lot of municipalities are going to get. I don't know what amount it's set in the budget how many municipalities it takes. There's a lot of work at the local level where our municipalities, where our roads are done, what about the community center and nearby villages, etc. We here express fear and let's not exaggerate, we'll give a lot to the municipalities, the municipalities will be rich, etc. I don't think we should be doing this job. We shouldn't be quoting how many municipalities it takes. The municipalities always need what has been given so far and how much they have had budget funds and these additional funds, it is not enough. It is insufficient for the reason that when we go to the field and in practice look at what is in these local self-governments and what conditions are created there that citizens can live. So I think it's very clear, because the two amendments are one member, which means one, and what the other means. It's neutralizing each other. Therefore, it can be voted on for both amendments and if both are adopted, it will be good for all municipalities, and especially for the undeveloped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28676	Thank you, Mr. Perry. It is clear that there are different views from that member, but do not defend MPs who are asking for less money to be left with local municipalities. It's their right. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. The law on the financing of local self-government. The SRS parliamentary group studied this law in detail and carried out the analysis. In this, we received a huge contribution from the MPs of the SRS, who are also the presidents of the municipalities. This amendment, which I have submitted to Article 35, is a logical trail of our amendment submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic to article 6 of this law. I suggested that Article 35, point (2) and (3) be deleted, which is – inheritance tax and gift tax and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. We, in Article 6, suggested that this income enter the electoral income of local self-government, not to be transferred from other levels of government. I could say that this is a very healing amendment, as well as for who. Of course, for citizens living in concrete environments that are also local government, because that could improve the standard of living of citizens. Here we talked about government ministers going to certain places in the election campaign through a new asphalt and putting even more recent ones, and we need to know that there are a lot of places in a large number of municipalities in Ljubljana that only a major traffic station that is asphalt, and in many villages people would be pleased if there were regular road swelling without talking about asphalt and other things. There's a lot of opposites in this law. National MP Zoran Krasic, and someone else spoke, said it was a private law, or a proposal for private law, and proved in a reasoned manner that this is the case. It is seen from the fact that one is well taxed twice. Next, MP Petar Jojic spoke, that the provisions of Articles 20 to 29 were already contained in the Law on Local Self-Government. It is pointless to regulate the same area again in one law and another, because it will cause confusion in the application of this law, not with MPs and members of the SRS, because you see that we work hard and we study all the laws, but some who do not have such working habits can certainly create a certain problem in the application of this law. Which is why it would be important, you saw in Article 6 that 16 ways are being counted as the original income for local self-government, but these are mostly cases where it is very difficult to collect these funds, and the Republic has kept to itself those conditions under which it is very easy to raise these funds from taxpayers, or from citizens of Serbia. You see, inheritance and gift tax, it is much easier to come by, or much easier to charge than many other taxes and taxes paid by Serbian citizens. How and for what? For the simple reason that if someone gets a gift or inherits something, I guess he's willing to pay the tax on that part, but if he buys something, builds or in any way create obligations for him. The Member then provides that the residence tax is also one of the ways in which the original income is collected. I can tell you about Love that it's a beautiful city. Some know, they were there, but what's worth, who's to come, who's to stay, when the access roads are very bad, and they need to invest a lot in infrastructure so that this residence tax can be charged, which should actually be the obligation of the Republic, not only for this city that I mentioned, but also for many other cities in Serbia, to allow through the budget of the Republic of Serbia to invest in infrastructure and what would encourage the development of economic activities so that this residence tax could be charged. The public is aware that in the last few days an agreement has been announced between representatives of G17 plus and DS and you know what the citizens thought, that they are now agreeing on how and how to buy out wheat, how to achieve a better price as possible, respecting the reasons why Mika Vlaovic as a model agricultural producer spoke about how to achieve the best price of raspberries, other agricultural products, and they seem to be conducting some talks, I would say empty, as well as how to fight the SRS, i.e. to prevent the SRS from winning the next elections. Some of my colleagues from the SRS have often asked and demanded that Minister Dinkic appear here, to give some reasons for our objections regarding this law. I see that there is now Milosevic Albianic and there is no need to come Mladjan Dinkic, especially as he said: here I am changing him, and let me tell you, he is in a very efficient and good way destroying the party's G17 plus the same as Mladjan Dinkic, so we don't care if any of them are there, he is making a good contribution to that party's disappearance and that the SRS will win the next election and take over the final power and responsibility in the state of Serbia and show how it should and how much better this country can be led, and most of it will benefit the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28678	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. I can ask you, since there's going to be a break, a minute just, then go ahead. You, Mr. Albianic, I will not give my word to you to thank you because Mr. Peric has asked you to disappear, but you continue, but we will stop for at least an hour to rest. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28679	Maybe it's too high, but it's a clean bill. I just want to say something in a few sentences. I'm a man who likes to say everything he thinks, but thinks before he says it. I know, I'm even sure you weren't thinking about me, but you reacted after my explanation of the amendment by saying that there are who think that 1.1 is greater than 1.7. I repeat again, I'm sure you haven't thought of me, but I'm asking you to explain, because that would put my professional integrity at risk, because my profession is also calculating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28680	Mr. Petronievich, of course, I didn't mean you. Your presentation was a reason for me to ask both of you personally and of the other parliamentary groups to propose, because that's what you were also talking about, a member of the Supreme Auditor's Council to establish this institution. You probably didn't pay attention, and for the exposure Mr. Peric had, I reminded myself, not of what he stood for, but because he was defending others to go out and talk, to claim otherwise, I said that people have the right to overlook, to excuse, to have immunity, and it is not correct to call on MPs in which way they will defend something, and simply, I further expressed my understanding that people are confused and that there is no need to be offended by who took the direction. It's just that, yes, people often get confused, they say 1.17, it's been so far, it's certainly less than 1.7, because 17 is larger than 7, and that one is the same. So it is not so easy to talk about mathematics, because these are complicated figures and all MPs give detailed tables, consult experts, because, of course, MPs represent citizens and it would be unserious to argue that MPs who have the right to talk about each topic and that is parliamentary democracy, to claim that each of them knows everything about each topic. None of us think that, of course. That's why that was the definition. As promised to you, including everyone else, a break of up to 18.05 hours, and then we will continue the discussion in detail. Thank you for your responsibility. [[After break – 18,05]] All those who wish to attend the debate will enter the session room. It is my duty to do my job and to give notice, it is important that everyone who works responsibly knows that this congregation and all its services are doing their job within their jurisdiction, so you have no reason to worry that someone is in the thick cold. If you are accidentally upset by the public’s deception that some jobs are still being done in the former congregation building, no, they are not, because this congregation is not only doing all the jobs, but it is also doing all the jobs that have not been notified in time, because we have worked hard and received notices, so there is no reason for anyone to sit in no shade, and especially not on the cost of citizens. I thank you for your willingness to do your job. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36 where all incomes are spoken for by local self-government and what is the Republic's going to do, i.e. The Republic of the Republic shall grant local self-government revenue. One of the revenues is both income and tax on tractors and connected machines. I asked the amendment to delete it from that member, for the reason that local self-government does not have that income. You can't do something you don't have to give in to municipalities. Local self-government incomes and these kind of taxes on tractors and connected machines don't introduce them. How are we going to process agriculture when we tax both tractors and connective machines, and then give it to the peasants, and then we're done with all the farm business. I don't think that should stand, because that income is practically in poor underdeveloped municipalities, there have been several proposals and attempts, it can't go through in any such congregation, etc. So, the peasant invests in a tractor, it's for the peasants expensive machine, he barely buys and he needs to make revenue with it, which is to process the country. With that money, you buy the same thing in town, you buy a machine, so you make something, you make some income, make bags, so I don't list everything alive. With the tractor there's not much to gain, just to process it so it doesn't remain raw agriculture. So I don't think it's right that it's in this article. I agree that the other revenues should stand, and for nothing we will provide by law that local administrations have income from tractors when they do not have that income.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28683	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28684	Mr. Arsic submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS and the purpose of why we submitted this can be described as wanting to specify Article 37. We did not touch attitude one or two, but we asked for attitude three to be written, so for those who follow this debate, Article 37 defines the total non-intentional transfer. Item 1 states that the annual amount of non-intentional transfer distributed to local self-government units and I must immediately tell you that this formulation means for all units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is 1.7% of the gross domestic product achieved according to the latest published data of the Republic's statistical authority. Our intervention with this amendment is currently referring to the last part of this sentence, which is – the data of the Republic's authority responsible for statistics affairs. But since there's a problem here with understanding what's bigger, which is smaller, I have to say that this formulation is practically not only inaccurate, but allows for different interpretations. Now let me explain to you how this has been happening since 2001. When Djelic came, he had the need to, as he claimed from this pay phone, agree the methodology for calculating the gross social product. When he brought this into line with international standards, it turned out that these data on GDP growth were in 2001, 2002, 2003, etc. they can't even compare to the statistics from previous years. The change was needed to monitor the continuity of the government and the growth of the gross social product since 25 January 2001. I'm saying this because it's quite possible for someone to remember to change the methodology for calculating gross social product again, which is not a rarity for us, if you remember, a number of times the methodology of how to get to the value of the consumer basket, so it was optimal, minimal, guaranteed and all possible formulations were present. Now, if attitude one speaks of the total mass of funds for so-called. non-purpose transfers, which is actually a collection of all these transfers, may not be exactly accurate this formulation – total non-purpose transfers, but perhaps something else should have been used. It's about attitude two that we didn't cover with the amendment, so maybe now it's a little illusory what I'm saying about these terms. In paragraph 2, a major problem arises, as paragraph 2 defines how the total mass should be divided into units of local self-government. Now there's again an inaccurate formulation. I have to tell you that we are absolutely safe and if our amendment is adopted which means that, after all this, item 3 is added that the Republic Authority is responsible for statistics affairs is required to publish data on the gross domestic product achieved for the previous year by 1 May of the current year. This came up as a technical question so as not to interpret this part of the sentence in item 1. according to the last published data. Here, in the context of the amendment, one may be a purely aproximative situation, but a situation may arise in practice. The problem with attitude 2 is that it speaks of the involvement of municipalities in these total funds for non-purpose transfer. It is said: "In order to determine the amount of certain types of non-purpose transfers prescribed by this law, the estimate of the amount of income, total and per structure, according to individual units of local self-government, is based on the achievement of these revenues in the last year for which available data exists, as well as on the parameters from the budget memorandum" etc. This is where the basics are given. So, what was the distribution in one of the previous years for which data exists? If in that year you're using as a rapper for everything else there's something that's not fair, then that injustice goes on all the time. Let me remind you how you came by this formulation. You came to this formulation in this way that for the past two years whenever a law on the participation of municipalities and cities in these funds was passed on to municipalities and cities using different criteria. One of the criteria was the number of schools, the number of educational institutions, kindergartens, population, children, etc. These were criteria, and when representatives of certain municipalities here rebelled, when they saw that a municipality with approximately the same number of inhabitants on these grounds had different participations, then there was a promise that one system regulation would settle these issues. You see for yourself, again, the basis for all of this is some realized consumption, some realized transfer in some of the marketing years from previous years, so you can be absolutely sure that that injustice that's promised to be corrected will not be corrected, I'm only talking about Article 37, I'm not talking about variations that go as types of another five, six kinds of this transfer. I'm talking about this article that talks in the first position about the total assets that are being allocated, and in the second position it's talking about the individual distribution, let there be a kind of transfer, let it be by the second criterion, but you can see for yourself how it's inaccurately written that it can be interpreted one way or the other. Of course, we believe that Article 3 cannot correct what is systemically embedded in the first two, but at least it can be set until it is necessary to notify the data on the movement of the gross social product for the previous year, with respect and the fact that it contains very significant data in item 2 and that document, because there are practically data for at least three years of budget planning. We believe that, as far as statistics are concerned, we should sort of put it together so that it would not happen that because of the fact that they are not published or someone is not responsible for the publication of data on the movement of the gross social product, this and that, even if local self-governments are also planning their share of public spending, also under the provisions of this bill, if they need to change something, they can only do it once a year. The very dangerous norms are found in this law which practically enable different interpretations of the same provision, even different from the municipality, from city to city, and I will not even mention city municipalities because they are probably the institutions that are most discriminated against in local self-government, because they are neither citizens statusually in the same position as citizens in some municipality, and I believe that by adopting the amendment nothing is lost, but rather precise what is the ingredient of the first and second position.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28685	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to explain the previous amendment, because I don't know why I'd do it, there's no minister. I hope he's a reasonable man, and if the amendment is explained here, maybe he could accept some of the amendments, but he's free of everything. The amendment to Article 42 is quite realistic. I suggested that we increase in this article, it's about criteria, which all criteria need to meet local self-government when assessing how much money they get. Usually, in these municipalities, it is taken as a criterion for how many schools, kindergartens, and a few other criteria. In order to achieve a more precise measure, I suggested two more things to take into account when the criteria are set and I gave one of the criteria to be according to the number of employees in the local self-government unit and to the degree of overall development of the local self-government unit. They would complete the criteria and the results would probably be different than they would now be with a smaller number of criteria. When you want to evaluate something, the more criteria you need to give and get more accurate, but there's no desire here for it to be even, to make corrections, etc. So there's no desire, but it's only written I know, so I don't think we're going to get far. So, I think it's real, nothing disturbs the law or member. When you make the criteria and you put three criteria, if there's someone who proposes two more criteria, and when we bring it all down, we're going to get a balanced development of all environments. So the aim of this law is that all local self-governments are in the same position, but we're going to make criteria where they won't be in an even position again. It is realistic that this amendment is accepted and that in voting day we vote on such amendments. It's just about the criteria. It is better to take five criteria and more specifically to determine how much each municipality will receive to be able to carry out its duties on the ground, than to remain on three criteria, and so many municipalities will be damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28687	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28688	In addition to what has been proposed by the amendment and what deserves any attention, it is a Article 42 that speaks about determining the amount of general transfer by certain units of local self-government and is now subject to the indents within this article's criteria, but the interesting thing is that the participation of one criterion in the overall withdrawal of that right is given so that the first indent draws 65%, the second 19%, the third four and something, the fourth one and something, the fifth 2%, the sixth 0.5%, the seventh 6%, the eighth 1.5%, and what is proposed by the amendment would have to fit in the total sum of 100%, but I'm not talking about it. I just want to draw attention to the fact that if he insists on financial independence in local self-government, if he insists on the principle that local self-government is being transferred and entrusted with certain tasks that the Republic is competent to carry out through its own bodies, so because of dispersion, it is not possible that there is some kind of republican body in each place to do the job, and that is a classic example of parent books, it is a job in the jurisdiction of the Republic, but for legitimate reasons it is transferred to bodies within local self-government units and it has some price. And now, there are similar areas in which responsibility is shared between the Republic and the units of local self-government, so this applies to both education and health and other activities where the unit of local self-government cannot behave independently and does not care about what is happening in this respect, since there is a large authority of a republican body or some institution, regardless of whether it is the Republic Health Services etc., etc. We return to the central issue, the Charter of Local Self-Government, Status and Legal Position of Local Self-Government in Serbia, we return to the issue of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Now in this part when it comes to funding from the position of the material capabilities of a territory with its resources and human resources that through the work done here it can provide itself with the means to fund these common needs which are the competences of local self-government and raise questions, questions and issues and seek practically one system solution. Unfortunately, this bill does not offer that, this bill probably has three groups of issues that are interesting. The first group of questions is to extract this matter from the Law on Local Self-Government, so let it be with the last Law on the financing of local self-government. The other group of questions are, whether we want it or not, but we have to admit, trying to get out of a complicated story as much as the municipality and by what criteria the funds were allocated under this general transfer. And the third question, perhaps at some point, that should be the most important issue of this project, is the fact that local self-government will take over a number of the Ministry of Finance employees working on these jobs. I believe that this is provided for in Article 61: "A unit of local self-government will take over from the Ministry of Finance – Tax administrations doing the tasks of Article 60 of this Law", which is the establishment, collection and control of public revenue from Article 6, "starting on 1 December 2006". And now it has to be commented because in 2002 it was promoted to us by the same people as the best, according to all the standards. You know for a fact that those who created or publicly represented them are leaders, economies, perspectives, this one is preparing to conquer Europe through a bank, etc. Now this is a completely different concept. Some other workers were once taken over, established administrations that were in control, and now local self-government is taking over from the ministry of these people. Just to remind you, a few months ago, that same ministry ordered local self-government units to cut the number of employees in local self-government by 10%, and if they don't, they'll be denied funds from the budget. Please, and even the criminal charges against the president of municipalities who dared to follow the government's recommendation, have done something in line with certain provisions of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget, which obliges us, have received criminal charges. Even on the grounds that several employees came into a situation to stop their working relationship, even under the agreement, they also took the severance fee, and then the presidents of the municipalities received a criminal application. There is no Mr. Mita Avramov who is the victim of such a policy. It is his fault that he listened to the government, because he later concluded that those who took the severance to leave work are members of a party who wants to establish a dictatorship like this and financially. Please, there is no gentleman who should represent the government, because he knows he can't answer these questions, as in the future no one will be allowed to answer these questions. There's a press-clipping in our house, we're running whoever said what, there's a stenogram of this people's congregation where it's exactly written down about every law that announced what was epochal. We also call upon those who represent the Government and those who help ministers when letters are written that when they come here they do not nod their heads as they say, so that is not said anywhere, it is not written anywhere. We've got the paperwork, we're waiting. You see for yourself, there is no replica, the heroes escaped. All the heroes denied anyone, and looked into the white books. The SRS is not allowed to discuss, to debate these issues, to call, to remind a little, and all that I have cited is the kind of control of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that kind of serious control. Those in local self-government are following this, because they're probably interested in the fact that since January 1st, they've been practically hitting this bill, this proposal now, but possibly the law. They're going to have to do pretty well, because in all variations, this is private law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28689	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Goran Rakovac submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28690	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public, I have to explain, when we started this afternoon's work, of course at the end of regular assembly hours, I asked, or I threw President Markovic that he shouldn't be ringing because the MPs who think they should be in the O.R. are already in the O.R., that they stayed in the thick cold, resting somewhere. And of course, Mr. Markovic said then, I now explain this because those who followed the work did not know what his comment was about. He said it's not true that the MPs are in the thick water, but that they're all doing their job. I'm really interested in where these MPs are the ruling majority, where they do their job at this hour if they're not in the Assembly. I know, of course, where SRS MPs are, but we are still still, short of opposition in this House and I know that, here they are now about preparing to go to the main square in Užica, and Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Stevanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Vucic and Tomislav Nikolic to attend the great national rally that will begin in 20 minutes at Užica, that there is a show of our presidential candidate for the president of the municipality, Mr Dragiš Stanojčić, a professor of literature and that they tell the citizens of Užica that if they choose him on Sunday, even if not all citizens in Užica know that there is absolutely nothing done by the amendments of Nemanje Sarovic, who is not a visible citizen. (President: Please move to Mr. Sarovic's amendment, so that someone does not understand that you explain that there are MPs who do not do their job, who are elsewhere. And that's their job. Here you go. Mr. Markovic, I've turned your attention a few times when I'm talking about the amendment, and I've asked you nicely never to give me a debate about the amendment. When I speak, and every MP when he talks about the amendment, his intention is to convince the assembly majority or possibly the government's representative to adopt the amendment. I told you once, for 15 minutes how much time we have on the amendment I can stand by and shut up about this pay phone if it seems to me to be the best way to explain the amendment, and so I ask you that when I talk about the amendment, don't mind what I have to say, but I will do it, as I am going to do now. (President: Be my guest. Of course. Mr. Markovic, when I asked you today, and before that, Mr. Obradovic's several MPs asked where Mladjan Dinkic was, why he was not here to talk and to pollute with the MPs, to possibly accept some amendment, to give us an additional reason why the amendment was not accepted, you said that you sent him to the cabinet session, it was 15.15 p.m., and he left here at 10.20 p.m. I hope we get a statement or at least tonight in the media what the government has been arguing for so many hours if Dinkic was so much in the government. Now he's not in the government. Now with a group of ministers, there they are, honoring themselves on the Croatian highway on their way out of Belgrade, there the "ECO-pump" opens. The Greek gas station in Belgrade opens one of its gas stations, and its guests are ministers, including Mladjan Dinkic. Dear Serbian citizens, therefore Mladjan Dinkic is not here today in the National Assembly to discuss a law relating to local self-government, or a bill on the financing of local self-government. So, Article 45. The proposal for this law has a title, of course, all the members of the Government's proposals, each member has a title, and this member is called – a dedicated transfer in a narrow sense. What's that? "The Republic can provide local self-government units with a dedicated transfer to perform certain tasks within their original or trusted work. "This attitude did not change our touch, although there was room. First of all, it's unacceptable, but I don't know how much we're talking to you and how much we convince you that it can't stand in the law that something "can", in law, can only stand for something "must" or something "can't" can't be done. It had to be here that the Republic provided, not that the Republic could provide. The second attitude says why he says "can" in his first attitude. The second stance says "The Competent Ministry", and you know what it is, the Ministry of Finance, Mladjan Dinkic, "is a special organisation that determines the level of the dedicated transfer and the criteria for its distribution by individual units of local self-government and the dynamics of the transfer of funds". Is there anyone normal who can leave this much responsibility to Mladjan Dinkic and that Mladjan Dinkic, in this way, cuts local self-government as he thinks he should give something to someone, if he thinks he should give something to someone in local self-government? So, dear citizens of Serbia, your lives in municipalities in Serbia depend on the goodwill of Mladjan Dinkic. Don't let this statement upset you very much, Mladjan Dinkic will be a minister for a very short time, so there will be some better days, better people, better laws. Why did counterpart Nemanja Sarovic propose another position of this article in 45th, and this suggested that the government of the Republic of Serbia submit a report on the use of dedicated transfers from Article 1, three months, to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, responsible for the affairs of finance and the affairs of local self-government. And in just one sentence, counterpart Sarovic explained that the amendment prevents abuse of funds and that is the essence. If the budget is formed and adopted in this assembly and you are willing to give the assembly majority this much authority, or you will give this much authority to Mladjan Dinkic, then let us see here for three months, our committee, and this parliament, where that money is spent, as the local self-government is seen, to whom Mladjan Dinkic is the mother, and to whom the stepmother is. It is amazing, in fact, that it is logical that Mladjan Dinkic did not accept it, because he would want someone to control it and to be controlled by the Committee of the National Assembly, but it will be really illogical if fellow MPs who will vote for this law do not accept this amendment, because there is nothing more logical and normal than this amendment. The government says why it did not accept the amendment, Nemanje Sarovic: "Amendment is not accepted, since the competent ministries will transfer dedicated transfers to local self-government units, which are responsible for its intended spending. The bill provides for an effective solution to prevent the misuse of these funds, i.e. their accidental spending." What an effective solution someone has seen in this law, I'd love to hear it. In fact, the government says, if the local self-government unit were to waste the funds without purpose, the government would deny the amount of funds transferred on the basis of non-intentional transfers. What does this mean? Some funds are spent in the municipality of Zemun (now some means have been spent to adapt the transfusiology department at the hospital in Zemun) and Mladjan Dinkic doesn't like it, what radicals have to mix there, what there is to deal with the situation in the hospital and he says – these are non-intentional spent funds and the municipality of Zemun deprives further funds. That's how this law regulated it. If you think, you four-five are here to vote for this bill, if you think this is good, then good for you. You remember how much at the beginning of the mandate of these local self-governments, after local elections, culled and begged the presidents of municipalities from Shida, Nova Paz, Požega, Zemun, to send a competent budget inspection to determine how they had previously spent money. Of course, Dinkic did not think to send a budget inspection into any of these municipalities, for the simple reason that in those municipalities before the radicals in power were yellow thieves. Since Dinkic did not send a budget inspection, then we ourselves in the municipality of Zemun dealt with this problem and discovered that a certain Simonovic, who was the chairman of the municipal board of DS, and the director of the Public Business Area, stole Krasic, please help me... (Zoran Krasic of Place: Three and a half million. )......................................................................................................... Three and a half million euros. Now, that's the one Simonovic's been writing about these days that he's untraceablely escaped because he's in charge of a lot of people around Zemun, so he can't pay back all those debts. Some took his house, so that's where four people come to take it, because he sold it four or five times, and so on. These are images supported by Mladjan Dinkic. Then, based on a statement by this Simonovic while he was here, even some former radical officials were named in the municipality of Zemun, then criminal charges were written, etc. There are several criminal charges against Simonovic, and whether he will return from America and whether he will be questioned by an APB, he may not now, but in some recent future someone will, be sure. In line with this government's explanation, why not accept the amendment, another logical question, how would Dinkic, and Krasic talk about, sharing municipalities and who he would give money to, and whom he would not, in relation to that regulation and the directive he referred to the municipalities that they had to reduce the number of employees. If someone accidentally disobeyed such a directive by the government of the Republic of Serbia, those municipality employees were reduced wages. Em, their salary is reduced, em's a twisted faucet, those transfer funds we voted here, and these municipalities don't get, why not Mladjan Dinkic. What I'm saying to a normal man can really look amazing, amazing that there is some Mladjan Dinkic who is an alpha and omega and everyone in this country is dependent on, who has neither Prime Minister nor Government. What Dinkic says is like that and who likes it, likes it, who doesn't like it, what do we do? When it comes to the transfer of funds to local self-governments, one question, also more for the public and, of course, for the MPs, if that's what they're interested in. How are funds distributed to the national offices that are formed in all municipalities where yellow thieves are in power? Where and who has the right to the funds of all citizens of Serbia and all citizens of these municipalities. I read it yesterday. The People's Office opened in Medvedji. That's the latest one. Every moment, that is, in every municipality where the yellows are in power, a national office opens up. Now I ask, who's right, I see that 15 minutes, Mr. President, is just another sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28691	No, for a throw, don't worry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28692	Thank you very much. So, in what way they come up with these funds, does this mean that Mladjan Dinkic has approved this Tadic tycoon, Dragan Djilas, that he can spend that money for the citizens of certain municipalities, that he can spend it on DS officials employed in these national offices. Some later propose to us, like the other day for deputy public prosecutors. Who is he who has the right to do so and from where he draws his right? I think it's really very close to the time when this is going to happen, and I think it's Mladjan Dinkic, who approved and financed the National Office, this one here, Gilasov, and all these local self-governments, that very soon, together with Gilas, he'll become a supported face in Zabela.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28693	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Please express yourself precisely now. I really don't have the information, or who gave the citizenship, or when they ran for office, or who chose members of the Asian mob to answer for it. Please, does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go. No, I hear the constant syntagma - "yellow thieves who are in power", I don't know who they're referring to, go ahead. Mr. Krasic is often misunderstood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28694	Mr. Markovic understands, I just want it to be potent. You often say that it applies yellow to Tadic and his men. It's okay, Mr. President, we're in communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28695	I'm sorry, since it's in yellow, I'll give you your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28696	It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Article 47 has its address — Predictability of the transfer. He says, "A review of non-intentional transfers per unit of local self-government", and it better be said: for each unit of local self-government, but well, "prepares the Ministry in co-operation with the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government". Article 2 - "The review of the position of the 1st member is part of the revised memo." Now, practically after this amendment, the rest of our amendments that we are contesting the existence of this committee to fund local self-government." Now, I'm not going to be in this lack of an article 47 to discuss, but I'm going to read what the SRS has suggested should be the text of Article 47. It's a bill of law. "The review of non-intentional transfers per unit of local self-government prepare the ministries responsible for finance and local self-government affairs. Consent to transfers under Article 1 shall be given by the competent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the affairs of finance and local self-government. The review referred to in Article 1 is an integral part of the revised memorandum." As you can see, the central difference is that we don't think there should be a committee to fund local self-government. I must say that, in some ways, two Assembly committees are a little potentiated as working bodies – the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Local Self-Government, in a different form, depending on the stages of the procedure that comes to these amounts, or the total amount of funds planned for non-intentional transfers. That is the central difference provided for in this article. However, I must return and comment, remind all MPs and warn the public and people who are following this area more than a common man, in our regulations there is no possibility that something called tax is regulated by law, is in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit and is governed by the decisions of the local self-government unit. That's impossible. But now here I get the impression that tax policy is being audited at a small door. The concept of tax policy in the Republic of Serbia is being revised. In addition to the standard taxes in the jurisdiction of the republican authorities, we also get a property tax which becomes a matter of local self-government unit jurisdiction. In its fullness and with all aspects, it becomes a matter of local self-government. Then call it property tax, property fee, you can't use the name - property tax. I don't know where Balinovac looked when he was giving consent to this text, and in the future, it would be necessary for an integral part of the bill to be a report of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, where it is unequivocally stating whether this is in line with the constitutional system in the Republic of Serbia, whether it is in line with the other laws that it must be harmonised with, because we are spinning around certain elements. If Balinovac doesn't know, let them discuss the contest, let them find someone else, Alexander Fatic, just don't tell him, because as Kostunica comes, he changes his mind. So in 2000 he attacked everyone in Serbia, I see something defending last night, except he didn't cry. I have to keep collecting these tapes, videos and reminding people what they did last year, last year, 2000, 2001, but I don't know how the wind changes, like that singer who turns on the roof, so does Fatic. So in 2001, he attacked, applauded that Milosevic had been kidnapped, and last night he was about to cry. His words, we spoke last night, seven or eight years ago, and he attacked us for those same words, just like Covic: dogs of war, dogs of war, and when it was 17 March 2004, it said -- these are terrorists in Kosovo. Well, poor thing, we've been talking for years that they're terrorists, and he only saw when he went off the grid with power, that's your policy in Serbia. It's always our fault that we're pushing a constant policy, we're not changing attitudes, we're pushing our policy, we're always blaming ourselves, and those who insult with political views, here's an example of this law, so it's a real example for you. I don't know how this could have gotten into congregation procedure, I really don't know, and how you could have put in these powerful provisions on the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government. So again, a sponge is being created, a sponge that needs to pick up anger, spit out local self-government towards the government, but it's not going to be an outcast government, it's going to be a minister, it's going to be a commission, so you're going to destroy it there, and when it's done, we're going with attitudes, so it's not good, so I don't know, you see with the commission, the commission guilty, like the Radio-Deffusion Council, you've seen. Even the Culture Minister is protesting against the Broadcasting Council, since it is reportedly an independent, regulatory body, etc. This isn't about those powers, but it's something like that. It's about one sponge that needs to be picked up by anger, nebulosis, and that when we vote here on some law, and especially the budget law, everyone in power, our commission to fund local self-government, because there it's agreed, it's being monitored professionally, it's doing an analytical examination, some analysis. I have to give you a very picturesque example of how wrong you've been from the beginning, not you, but the government, just because she wants to be blind to what's clear to every reasonable man. I'll take one area that's clear to everyone, but it's not football, because we all know football well. So in 2004, the first thing that was done in the National Assembly was to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and then some new concepts of voting abroad, political parties of national minorities, the natural threshold, what control would be, etc. A few days ago, in the organisation of the OSCE, counseling was organised, everyone, even the president of the National Assembly and some MPs who go to Europe, they kind of ask them something like, Comićku ask or Ljila Nestorović, come on people please, and NGOs and given one synopsis what should have been looked at so that our law, to remind you, when a change was made, was said that there was no better law on the globe of the Earth. He did experience a debacle after six months, as tourist trips abroad were exposed to the organisation of the elections. Now they have made some 15 points, which is problematic in the current text of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I take the 2004 stenogram faster, those of the OSCE wrote remarks from the SRS on this speaker that it is not European, that it does not comply with international standards. Here, it's been two years, maybe two and a half years, and the OSCE has made remarks to you, as Serbian radicals have put them. You challenged us then, and let's see if you can tell the OSCE now: you're wrong? You can't, because the profession is in English and they ask questions, it's not defined what political parties are national minorities, but you have the president that material, I know you do, and you read it there. Just what you read, we talked about it from this pay phone, and you were smiling. They say, "Well, that's impossible, so what, so Balinovac came and boasted that everything was best, how is European, so examples here, and then examples there, and what are we going to do now? You want to change that law again? Now, Mr. President, if that law is re-changed, these provisions are also amended where we have made objections that punishment should be paid to all MPs who voted consciously for bad law. I'm using this example because it's exactly the same situation with this law, it's exactly the same. So, the force of 126 votes can do anything, and as long as the first curve and collision with reality, and then you're going to again what we've objected to you to get into some form and say -- this is great now, this is democratic, etc. That's the problem, gentlemen, because there are so few MPs, that's why it's so thick alados where it goes, because we theoretically have a fantastic Rules of Procedure, and the SRS regrets it, and we wouldn't have this kind of a commercial on any television, just the job, this is a nice commercial, it's a great heat, people are watching television, hurry up from Uzica, because the rally is about to start. Remember what I said, the cat will come back on the door, and when the food comes back, then they'll say it's European again. Citizens of Serbia, you are faced with this kind of authority. Don't look at that public service, because there's no truth there. Why isn't there a reporter in the Assembly today? Did you notice that? It is not interesting, journalists are not interested in this debate here when it comes to the level of amendments, members, proposals, concepts, etc., but whether the MP has been bitten by the house or if someone has done something and of course, there is no younger, better to drink something there at the octan pump than to sit here and to sweat and listen to criticism about what he has promised, worked and everything he has done in a few months. As you can see, we remember very well what anyone said. We're waiting for you to jump in, pull out the papers, so let's say, a stenogram since then and then, a page that and that point, said Junior, and then we'll read and we'll move on. We'll explain everything in the books, and I think I said this morning that there's already one in the press, very interesting for Mladjan Dinkic, I'm just afraid it doesn't pass like that director of "business Space" in Zemun. He filed criminal charges, and at the same time they filed criminal charges against him. So thanks to these reports, Moma Markovic allegedly had to be a suspect in employment. Moma Markovic came out, proved his innocence even though he needed to prove his guilt, and the one he was persecuting, put three and a half million euros in his pocket and fled abroad and, of course, now he's being fenced and DS, everyone's fenced on him, and in time everyone was warned something bad was going on there, but they talked: the radicals are suggesting something, so it was funny. Here, you see, it was funny for you, three and a half million euros gone. How many families do you think there are that have sold apartments to provide a better and bigger one, how, where a man can doubt such a person, in that person, think about it a little bit. When you do a government job, you take more care of state and people's interests than you do of who's where.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28697	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I repeat, therefore, please, for the remarks that are quoted by the advertisements, all statements that allud on a racial and religious basis, I will simply always ask for clarification and warning. It is not any incentive, and it is not possible, because we are working in the Rules of Procedure, to impose penalties, if MPs speak anything, and then do something else. Anyway, thank you for saying that everything that's been said about the Rules of Procedure, that you've repented, thank you for being prepared to discuss with the OSCE of this objection. Thank you very much. Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? On behalf of section three, the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Local Self-Government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 51, and it is true that the Committee has accepted it. It's a shame there's no minister, maybe we could settle it right here right now, but then. I'm obliged to explain the amendment. I suggested, of the three members of the commission representing the local self-government unit, one member must be from one of the more underdeveloped municipalities. That wasn't precise in the article. My amendment would specify that of the 10 members plus the president, one should represent undeveloped municipalities and I think that would be just.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28699	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, the Prophet of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28700	Article 51, as well as this former member of the 50th and several other members behind, we have suggested that they be deleted, because they refer to, as the title above this section says, "The security of justice, efficiency and openness of the local self-government financing system", and then the title above Article 50. - "The Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government." Of course, it is a principled position, first of all, of the SRS, that no special commission should be formed, that we have ministries, that local self-governments, all bodies and organisations already formed, should only do each of their jobs, worth, honestly, first of all, in accordance with the laws, whatever laws, even the way this law is. When I was talking about Article 32, I simply had to go back to the government's explanation, because at the time I spent time, I couldn't read the government's explanation of why they refused the amendment to Article 32, and that amendment was applied to the way the funds received from the lease of business space, i.e. the government's restriction, or the finance ministry, to determining exactly what these funds could be used for, which is absolutely pointless and I won't continue to elaborate on this amendment, because I've already talked about it for 15 minutes, but just to read it, and it's about what I'm going to talk about further, the government's explanation for why this amendment isn't accepted. He says, "The amendment is not accepted, since determining the intended character of the lease income will not question the regular functioning of local self-government, especially municipalities in the composition of cities. At the same time, this will reduce the unwarrantedly high range of income available per capita among certain urban municipalities, especially in the city of Belgrade that is now moving over 10 times, with the same scope of jurisdiction." In this explanation is the essence of the privacy of this law. We have said several times today that this is the private law of Mladjan Dinkic, which will obviously apply to the most extent Nenad Bogdanovic and other yellow criminals, Mr Markovic has come out, he knows who we think and who all citizens in Serbia think about when they say "yellow" and is not correct from Mr Markovic, which speaks of some racial impatience. We Serbian radicals greatly appreciate the Chinese people, and we would never have thought to mention yellow in that sense. When we say "yellow", we clearly and loudly mean the yellow thief company of Boris Tadic. This, of course, works for the public, knows this and Predrag Markovic, but since he likes to joke, I have to explain it this seriously. So, Art. 50, 51, yes, Professor Simonovic, do you have any problems with this finding? (Velimir Simonovic, from the post: I do not. Then don't comment, be kind. So, Art. 50, 51, 52, and I guess all the way to article 55 are talking about the local self-government financing commission as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, completely unnecessary. It's another new administration, and now it's a particularly interesting member of 51. Of course, these commissions have to be paid, those people who will be members of the commission have to pay, and then normally until now all agencies, commissions, etc., who have passed through various laws here have been paid, usually several times higher than the average salaries of employees in Serbia, so these will also have several times the salaries of workers who work in, Madam from the ministry, you have some remarks Then please also, especially, you can write, to read later what we told him, and you can't comment. So, these people you choose in this commission will certainly have more salaries than those people in local self-government, in the authorities of local self-government who work truly, who work for citizens, who are the service of citizens where Serbian radicals are in the municipalities, and where they are not Serbian radicals, citizens know well what problems they have with local self-governments, but it only lasts until the next election. Now listen to what article 51 says. So, even if we weren't in principle against this commission, and we are, then it would again be completely unacceptable for the commission to be in the membership of Article 51. Article 1 says, "The Commission has a president and 10 members who are appointed for a period of five years." Again for five years, it is again that game that we already had in the Law on Government, in the Law on Civil Servants, it is the idea of this government, Kostunica-Dulic, that on such high state functions they place their people for a period of five years, that when they leave the government they still have some of their people in significant functions, so as not to completely lose power as they will formally lose it after the next election. Second position: "The president and five members are appointed by the government and five members by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities". My people, what is this constant conference of cities and municipalities to be incorporated into this law or any law and that this permanent conference of cities and municipalities would appoint members of the commission to have some funds financed by local self-government. This is really amazing. It is amazing that this private Dinkic law is not only in this article, we said it in principle, based on some attitudes of the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities. It just can't go through, it's not normal, it's not smart. The permanent conference is an informal body, a citizens' association, an NGO. Furthermore, I expected, given this, that a number of members of this commission who will take care of the funding of local self-government to determine the humanitarian law fund, the Helsinki Committee, would not be able to miss one law without being influenced by Kandićka, Vuco, Biserko etc. From that rank is this constant conference, of course you left out the society of judges and so on. democratic fluids, and I say, quasi-democratic fluids. So it's amazing, and especially in the follow-up to this attitude -- "of which three members must be representatives of local self-government units". So, the conference elects five members, and three must be representatives of local self-government. Who are these two members who have nothing to do with the Ministry or the local self-government, who are these two members of whom will depend on the lives of employees and citizens in municipalities? This is an enigma that should never remain in this law, and then you really have the peak of cynicism – "professional and administrative-technical affairs for the needs of the commission are carried out by the Ministry". So, this combination of whoever invented it is really good for him. If it's from Dinkic, it's a lot. So there will be a permanent conference to form a body, a commission in which it may put Kandićka and Vuco, and the ministry will do professional and administrative work for the commission. Here's what the government says about why no amendment to Article 51 has been accepted. It says – for the same reasons as that of Article 50: "Amendment is not accepted since the Commission for the Finance of Local Self-Government is a form of institutionalised co-operation and dialogue between central and local authorities". What kind of cooperation, what kind of dialogue? People, give the people money, give local self-government money, it's decentralisation, and don't make any sense to anyone that it's not clear what you've written, and then in the paper you're trying to decentralisation local self-government, and without Dinkic, there's not a single light bulb in the municipality to change. It also says "as such exists in a number of other European countries". I would really like that set of European countries to stand in brackets, because that is not quite true. Its purpose is not to carry out any work under the authority of the Government and the ministries, but to help through a partnership between the central and local authorities better understanding, exchange of views, and thus to improve the quality of the laws and other rules proposed by the Government, which relate to the position, competences, etc. They're talking about an exchange of views, and it's about a commission to fund local self-government. Who's crazy here? We are not and Serbian citizens are not. Serbian citizens now understand perfectly what the government really wanted with this law, as it wanted to trick them again. Now I'm going to tell you what this dialogue means and talk to each other. This means that Dinkic and Bogdanovic are agreed on what they will do in Belgrade. Bogdanovic promised three bridges in the election campaign. He has already had a third year as mayor and he and this one, Stanojevic, started talking in the papers about how they engage, collecting offers, ideas solutions, projects, of course, distracting the people and citizens of Belgrade to listen to him thinking about the bridge, and that is, of course, his preparation for future elections when he says, of course, that I'm going to build a bridge, but we haven't done the project documentation yet. Anyone who only gets out by car in Belgrade knows the need to build those two bridges in Belgrade. Belgrade can no longer handle the traffic currently in Belgrade. We will have in one of the next laws Velja Ilic's proposal to take cars away from someone who has committed a possible violation. I guess that's how it should reduce the number of cars in Belgrade. That's why Nenad Bogdanovic and Bojan Stanojevic have holes in them, they're paved, they're changing jars, because they're the best money launderers. There's nowhere better to launder money than asphalting. The other day, I was close to my cousins from Banja Luka, and we just happened to be on Nemanja's street, and somewhere near the end, they asked me where this Nemanja street was written so much that it was arranged, decorated, European. I say - we're going down that street now. People get baptized, they say you can't see anything's been done at all. I'm saying -- you don't see, they almost changed the tracks here because they forgot the trams had to pass, so they made it so the tram can't get past the tram. They didn't do it by accident either, but it was also done to turn one more round in the money laundering, because there was a designer who forgot that they had to pass, that the trams were going both ways. He knew that and probably that man predicted it in the project, but Stanojevic, Bogdanovic and this tycoon from across the street – Gilas, who is of course a cap of all crime and the democratic yellow gang, realized that they needed some more money to get out of the Belgrade budget, so they invented another job. Such matters will be served by this commission proposed by the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28701	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Stevanović submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, counterpart Brance Stojanovic suggested that Article 51's position be changed by saying, "The president and five members are appointed by the Government, and five members by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities from the ranks of representatives of local self-government units." You know that a colleague, Hranislav Peric, explained the previous amendment in which he asked that these three representatives who were planned, i.e. proposed in the position of Article 51, must be one of the non-developed municipalities, which the Finance Committee has accepted. I think there's plenty of space here and enough rational reasons to accept the amendment of counterpart Brancet Stojanovic. I tried to understand why out of these five representatives of local self-government should be three just representatives, and two could be something else, so I thought it was probably people who were experts in the area of finance or financing local self-government, and that could be the reason. Again, on the other hand, it seems to me that this amendment should be accepted precisely because those people who are proposed and elected by the Government may be primarily experts who understand this area to the end and who can be more competent and qualified to compare all relevant data relevant for the financing of the local community. Hence, the permanent conference of cities should be given the right to select all five members, regardless of whether or not they are experts, but should not yet be put out of mind, nor should in the ranks of the president of municipalities that are normally members of the conference of cities be found and how excellent experts, or experts from that area. The overall flaw of this law, if we are looking for faults at all, is that it is not followed by another law advocated by the SPS parliamentary group, which is the law on regional, even development. Then it would be easier for us to understand all these relationships that are proposed by law, and we could see clear and loud criteria that apply to how some of the municipalities are classified in order of the developed, how some in order of the medium-developed, and how in order of the underdeveloped. That is why, in the principle debate, and in this debate in particular, we had a number of conflicting opinions concerning the criteria for the allocation of funds to local communities, i.e. local self-government. At the time, I thought that one of the relevant data for detecting the objective economic power of all local congregations, or communities, should be, say, the number of employees, then the number of unemployed, the average wage per employee, etc. You have such examples of the Lykovac municipality with a very small number of employees having an average personal income compared to the Republic of Serbia, but this does not significantly affect the collection of funds in the local budget although this rate of 40% is applied to the income tax achieved in the area of the municipality. On the other hand, you have relatively large municipalities by the number of inhabitants, by the area they affect, by the number of secondary schools, kindergartens, primary schools, departments in those schools, and of course, by the number of children that are covered by education, without falling into the category of developed ones. So size and development are often in Serbia at an upheaval. So you have municipalities that were once in the category of medium-developed, even developed, which today because of the infrastructure, that is, the economic structure they have, with circumstances, and above all because of economic opportunities came into the category of undeveloped municipalities. So someone who's big doesn't mean he's strong and developed in this economic and financial sense. That's why I think the main flaw in this bill is not in its contents, because it can be applied like this, but just because we don't have that law. Now let me give my opinion of this conference of cities. I'll remind, for example, when we adopted budget rebalances that a simulation was attempted that was agreed at a conference of cities on the basis of funding from local communities. Then the presidents of the municipalities proposed one thing, the ministry of the other, eventually agreed on it, but when they performed the simulation, it turned out that the largest number of municipalities in Serbia was getting less funding than was the case in the finance ministry's proposal. Then they said, "I'm sorry, we made a mistake, let's make a law." As a result of the agreement at the city conference, as well as the demands heard by both the SPS and other parliamentary groups, the law also came. Is there supposed to be a permanent conference of cities? I think because she can't hurt, she can only use it. At this conference of cities, the presidents of municipalities meet, exchange their experiences developed for various forms of co-operation, and, among other things, discuss how to fund these congregations in the future, i.e. those municipalities that these presidents represent. I couldn't put them in any kind of NGO, but simply into an association of presidents that primarily aims to make the municipalities they come from better, and that's fine. I don't see anything wrong with that, and I think it would be bad. As much as I understand the proposals on the suspension of this commission, it would be bad for us not to have a commission. Perhaps one day when we grow into a relatively developed society, when the vital status of the congregations, or municipalities, is changed, such a commission will not be needed. At this point, it seems to me that for the sake of harmonising these interests in the entire Republic of Serbia, the Permanent Conference of Cities does not have a right to replace or make an alternative and that it is good and that the Minister of Finance and other representatives of the Government, including the Minister for Local Self-Government and the State Administration, hears the basic and essential problems of the municipalities from which these presidents come. You know, it's hard every day, and when you're the president of the municipality, to communicate with the competent ministries, including that for local self-government, for finance, etc., because then all ministers would just have to spend most of their time talking to the presidents of the municipalities, which I don't think would be bad, but then they'd just do it and some other jobs would suffer. That's why the city conference, and so is the commission. Another sentence concerning reasons for accepting Mr. Brancet Stojanovic's amendment. If, therefore, it was thought of experts, then here in the last position it was said that jobs for the needs of this commission would be done by the ministry. If we have the right ministry, I don't think I'm going to argue now in any way, then we have experts within that ministry. The ministry will then, through a number of ministry officials and experts, actually carry out this expert, expert part of the commission's work, i.e. to help the Commission take the most realistic and objective view of the state of all, developed and medium-developed and undeveloped, and, in agreement with that, including these criteria that were not in its law, to allocate those resources available in relation to the level of social gross products in the budget for each year, and the government is declaring itself in the memorandum before the budget is drawn up for the following year. So I think there is enough reason to accept this amendment, although I know that the secret wish of every minister, including the Government, is that the law that enters the assembly procedure endures as little changes as possible. This change wouldn't spoil the essence of the law, and I think it would fix the whole story of the commission and its composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28703	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Any other parliamentary group on the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 51st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28704	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 53, nothing needs to be deleted, nothing to be taken away, just to add a new point. When the Commission is formed, we need to secure a job, to have something to do. I suggested that the commission should prepare proposals to improve the funding system for underdeveloped municipalities in addition to other jobs it does. If we don't let this mission work, I don't know what the Commission's purpose is. If by law what's coming to you and what are the criteria, how much to get every municipality, then the commission doesn't have any reason to do much. The Commission would achieve the right goal if we were to lose underdeveloped municipalities, to move all municipalities into developed communities. That would be the first assignment. Why don't the commission sit down and go before the government and propose some measures and say – give poor municipalities, say there are no poor people in Serbia, and that should be helped there for the underdeveloped municipality to become developed. I have explained this amendment on the board, and it is understood that it is done by the commission. It is different – it is understood, it is different when it is put into the task. At least once a year, someone will discuss and be interested and open up some questions about underdeveloped municipalities. Now, in this whole thing, when all the municipalities and cities are in one piece, this question will never be mentioned. That's why I didn't want to delete anything, change it, but when we list the jobs that the commission is supposed to do, we say, in addition to these jobs that we've listed, we're putting the commission on a mission to create a program to fund undeveloped municipalities, to make it a better situation there. Neither the government nor the board have accepted this amendment, and I think that when the law enters the procedure, it is to make proposals and to improve the law, that this law can work in practice. Everything else, I think we're gonna miss the finish line. I repeat, our proposal, our amendment just wants to complete the commission's work, someone here is worried, sure it'll be a busy commission so they won't have time to work, because they'll have other jobs, etc. Therefore, in the end, I would like to ask all MPs in the voting day to consider this member, not to mind standing by the law. Whoever was doing something, who was working somewhere, in some company, who was making income, it's clear to him in practice, that you always give ten assignments, so when it's over eight, you're satisfied. If you give one and it stays unfinished, you don't do anything. Therefore, President Markovic, since I highly appreciate you and believe that you know this matter, I would like to say, if you think it is not realistic that the commission should do this for undeveloped municipalities, as president of the Assembly, you should advocate to create equality in municipalities in Serbia. If you say it -- it's not good, I don't think it should, I'm willing to withdraw this amendment. But I think the amendment is good and it would be good for these poor and poor municipalities that make two out of the dinars, if anyone suggested, my predecessor Joca said there would be experts on this commission. Let the experts take the stand, too, to suggest something smart for these poor and undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28705	Thank you, Mr. Perry, thank you for your compliments. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 53rd amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The title above article 54 and article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Sredoja Mihajlov. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, please. Mr. Peric, I publicly advocate that your amendment be adopted, unlike increasing the criteria without coefficients. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28706	We skipped a few amendments because they all refer to the Commission for the Finance of Local Self-Government. We asked the amendment to delete these provisions, and a while ago I explained what our principled position was, so we didn't want to engage in this debate of the same-minded about what these technical shortcomings would be, and concerning the Commission. Article 61 is in the transitional and final provisions, and it would be best to read it, as it is written: "The local self-government unit will take over from the Ministry of Finance – the Tax Administration, which performs the tasks of Article 60 of this Act, starting from 1 December 2006. The premises, equipment and resources for work, the unit of local self-government will take over from the Ministry of Finance – Tax Administration, relatively the number of employees taken over. The government will arrange for the takeover of employees from the 1st position of this member." All this has been brought in because there's been a change in the so-called. The original revenues of the local self-government that we discussed when we discussed the amendments that we submitted to Article 6. It's a bill of law. Article 61 refers to the previous provision, Article 60, that the unit of local self-government is fully determined, charged and controlled by the public revenues of Article 6 of this Act, starting from 1 January 2007. So, if we neglect this – on 1 January 2007, 1 December 2006, we return to Article 6 paragraph 1 point 1), which says that the property tax, so we look at what is written in Article 7 – is determined by the local self-government unit assembly, so when it is determined by the property tax, the local self-government unit assembly determines the amount of tax on property, except for the two that we oppose – up to the highest rate prescribed by the law governing the property tax. This would mean that there will be a change in the property tax law where the rate will be determined in the maximum nominal term and that will be the maximum rate to which units of local self-government can prescribe the tax rate of property tax. So let's say, if this were to be put, on the basis of some example, I'm saying, let's say that it's 2% of the value of some property, the maximum rate, then it's theoretically possible for it to be 1.9 in Belgrade; in Pirot 1.8; in Cup 0.9, etc. Something like that is not possible according to our constitutional system when it comes to taxes. In essence, by definition, taxes are the incomes of the Republic, not the income of the local self-government unit. However, since our units of local self-government had no mechanisms so far to collect their original incomes, i.e., they had a limited opportunity for the collection, they now resorted to the new formula I was just talking about. Now units of local self-government will take over employees from the Ministry of Finance – Tax administrations who usually work in municipalities buildings, who will work to determine the collection of property tax controls and probably all original incomes of local self-government units. They will also be supplied by means of a monopoly of physical coercion, assistance from police and other organs. I'm going to have to change the billing rules, which I have to tell you, I'm going to have to change the rules that need to be regulated in a new way with the service that's in charge of forced payment, and that's where I have to distract you. There was practically tax reform, there was not only tax reform in terms of tax, tax rates, but there should be changes in the relevant provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. It doesn't go in the package, I don't know if you noticed, we didn't get everything that has to be changed by our law at the same time. This is a private law, and I must tell you that in considering these problems, the biggest mistake was made just as the talks went through the Permanent Conference of the municipalities and cities of Serbia. The biggest mistake was made there. I'll tell you why right away. There is not even a normal choice of officials within the framework of this permanent conference, because there is a dominant of professional associates, advisers and those left behind, and we have data on that. Other representatives are one political group, which is shadowed by the Serbian government. There's a big shadow, so from that shadow one time it shows up at B92, some time at RTS, some time at the National Office, some time the Meridian Bank, some time over here and over there. They go abroad, they lie down, they don't let their position be compromised. Otherwise, the mental set of these people is that if they're not the first, then there's nothing. It's known who it's about, and since I'm a daltonist, I don't want to talk about colors so that some of us don't get upset so there won't be any bigger problems. Now you see how the tax system changes at a small door and changes everything in order to make sure that existing positions are kept as best as possible, regardless of whether they match the interests of the citizens. I just heard a debate. These experts are unable to see this problem Mr. Peric was talking about. That's what I have to tell you, they don't see the problem. That's no problem for them. They think it should all be left to some freedom, to the competition, to some fairy tales. The fact that maybe in the Great Plan after nine hours no one drives a car, which, let's take some smaller municipalities that barely patch up the end, take, say, Bosilegrad, a very decent community for example. There, except for state services and Elektroprivreda and Distributions, the court, the SUP, the economy almost doesn't work. Everything that's done is either closed or their confect is doing something about the sausage and the other doesn't do anything. What tax policy there is and what to introduce. That's where all the subscribers are. They all live on it if they provide some funding from the level of the Republic and pass on it to local self-government. Do you see this poor man chasing in every way possible and if he can provide as much money as possible to get Bosilegrad on his feet and to have something paved up, etc. They're facing that problem. Now we're talking here -- experts and some system. Where do they see the system? Experts see no further than the Belgrade circle of two. You're forcing us into the story of the commission and its composition and who would be in that commission, etc. It is offensive to the citizens of Serbia. The Commission is just a sponge that needs to pick up everything that may have been uncultural and directed to the government, far from the minister to not spit it out, not to experience what he had experienced in Raznje. Then there's a big expert calling, a big waist falls, the West's well-being falls toward the NN's who are experts here, and when it comes to the field and to see what some local self-government's problems are. It should be said – some local self-governments do not function, barely function, in the congregations units of local self-government and government and opposition cut each other. There's nothing they can do. That's why grandfathers in Belgrade must not be touched, and even the great Velimir Ilic, when he was making some regulation on legalisation, quickly retreated, entered the forbidden zone. They were MPs who left the parliamentary groups and were no longer MPs, but did not give up office in the city's assembly and in the city's administration. Clear and cloudy. You see for yourself how it's formed, where the cash register is, that's where it's grouped, a little warmed up about it, and so are they. City Hall acts like Santa before New Year's Eve. If Chukarica is good, she'll get, if Palilula pulls something, she won't get it, she'll have to change the president and change the president. It is theirs, but it had to, it doesn't fit the concept. Just to remind you, after the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the nominally largest budget is the city of Belgrade and there is the end of the story. There's nothing, because these things don't need experts. That's what any thief can do. To assess. Criminals are intelligent people, with little effort and little work comes to a large amount of money, position and wealth. Since they're intelligent, they know how to jump into a political party, open up to the west, get little money from the west to get up, so they get these famous nicknames, come in here nice-stirred, elegant, shoot everything, cheat on the citizens, come in and finish the job. Now let me remind you, since I know you trust me, but you're smiling, so you're making me give you an example. When the mayoral elections were held for Belgrade, one of the parties in power in Belgrade called the mayor's DS candidate to have an apartment, but would not move in and give some fly and loop. He categorically refused. A month ago, that same mayor informed the public that he was moving into his apartment. When journalists brought him up with the question, he says, yes, I had that apartment when it was an election campaign, but I estimated it was not good to admit it, so it could affect the election. Did he suffer any consequences? No, I don't. Did the paper keep writing about it? No talk, no one's allowed to announce, he bought all the journalists and the editors responsible for lunch.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28707	It's about the MP, and I'm asking you to make sure you don't mention your private life...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28708	Excuse me, Mr. President, I see seven MPs here, the one you think is a MP, I don't see him here. He's gone, and for all I know, he hasn't been here in months, and he told me he didn't intend to come in here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28709	Please, it's a People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28710	I didn't mention any names, Mr. President. You recognize that very well. I'm glad you recognize and know all the MPs, and you know the proclivities and characteristics of these individuals. I'm glad you helped me with this recognition. That's not what I said, that's what you said. You'll see in the papers tomorrow, they'll attack me like they did last time, not you. It's tactics. Brainwashing tactics. So, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know, this law is no good, this law is usually a tumult, reformed reformed, at the maximum democracy we get a few more maxims of democracy, on the profession we get a couple of times more professions, and in fact we get a regulation that is going to fly maximum and no one will be able to appeal. So the provisions are written that it's impossible to do anything. You see, we had before, and it was raised to the level of constitutional category, so the Republic can trust local self-government units to do matters from the jurisdiction of the Republic and to do entrusted business is transferred funds, and that's how the formulation stands. I must tell you that we still have the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration in place, and that I do not order how many laws we still have that regulate this area. Have you noticed that there is no defined item or term in this bill anywhere in that formulation, transfer of funds to carry out trusted tasks. So, no, it's lost. Mr. President, you don't want to get mad, because we're going to go out one more time, just to recapture the effects of this law. So, according to the existing law, and you're interpreting the Law on Local Self-Government, which was passed in 2002 and changed in 2004, and you know, in 2004, that provision that you just attacked me, Article 98(1), point 5, point 2 and point 5 of Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, was amended in 2004. So there was talk about these taxes, the part of the funds going towards the municipalities. So, the original revenues under the Law on Local Self-Government, when only municipalities are considered, because I don't want cities, since you're almost changing anything, you change pretty much, but in percentages when you look at it, it all comes down to the same thing, the income structure changes, but the percentage is zero. You see, under this law on local self-government, the original revenues are expected to be 9 billion 937 million and 286 thousand dinars. I think I said the exact number, given that three more zeros are added. Under the law, if adopted, local self-government will initially achieve 12 billion 774 million 211 thousand dinars. So, about two billion and 800,000 dinars more. Since they are original, they are achieved in the territory of the local self-government unit, so this law allows the local self-government unit to decide autonomously and depending on how originally it decides to increase revenues for this amount that I was talking about. So now it doesn't matter the internal structure of each of these positions at all. Furthermore, the income granted under the existing Law on Local Self-Government, which is what the Republic is transferring, should be, as planned, 28 billion 754 million 626 thousand dinars. If this law is passed, then the income paid will be lower and will be 25 billion 917 million and 702 thousand dinars. Can I say that the Republic will be less single for local self-government units, since it is a smaller amount. I can probably say that because I'm making some difference in numbers. Furthermore, according to the current Law on Local Self-Government transfers should be 7 billion 922 million and a few thousand dinars, and if this law is passed, then this part would be 10 billion and so on. And when all of this is collected, the total income of local self-government units, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, is 46, and according to this law, which is proposed, would come to 48 and a few billion, and that would be more for 2.14 billion dinars, or 4.6%, and now the question is asked – from where? You see, one part of the increase, and you see for yourself, that's two billion and something and only when you compare the original incomes, you'll see that there's a difference. So more local self-government on the basis of original incomes will be realised, and if they are realised on the basis of their original incomes, then the expenditure of citizens living in the territory of the unit of local self-government is increasing. That's the math. If by this law it's 9 and 900 now, the new one should be 12 and 700 and the difference is two billion and 800. So two billion and 837 million more will be collected from citizens in the territory of the local self-government unit. Please don't talk to me, it comes from the side, and it's settled, etc. You'll get more from the citizens and the whole point is that. To justify yourself, you created a commission, a new tax administration in local self-government, that local self-government must take employees from the Ministry of Finance, and you have municipalities where there are no employees from the Ministry of Finance working on these jobs, so local self-government has to build a new service. That's your concept. You're building an agency for local incomes, but that's not good for you, the faulty intention is contained here, that's the whole point. I've been standing here all day and discussing, waiting for you to come out, and in the end, you've confirmed to me that 4% more that will be singled out, I say this is a model, this is a test, you wrote it yourself, and if you take 2006 and what's planned under the Law of the Local Self-Government, so it's that much, the original income of 9 billion and something, if we apply it, so on this model of the bill, in the same year, the original income will increase by 2.8 billion. So that's how much more will be taken. What's to be taken? Here, let me read, article six. – property tax, local administrative fees, local municipal taxes, residence tax, land use fees, construction land planning fees, environmental protection and promotion fees, concession fees, to see if it will be, because I'm not sure; fines, renting revenues, revenue from sales of mobile items, and when I read these local, communal taxes, then you know what comes next. So, the concept of the law is, we're going to respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we're going to let you know about local self-government, better you take away from the citizens than it is for the government to be the one to kidnap. When it starts with a revolution, please, commission, experts, the Ministry of Finance won't, and it's supposed to be easier for us to pass a budget law, because this is an auxiliary law for our budget system law, gentlemen dearly to warn you, and that's your concept. So, tell Franislav Periæ - no help from the experts he complains about. These experts see the Belgrade circle of twos, they still don't see it, and their view is clear depending on the state of the account. Whose? Theirs. And that's the whole concept. You don't believe it? You'll see. Take this stenogram, remember what you're told. We know the concept, not the members of the government, it's far from the members of the government, the concept of some individuals that influence the creation of such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28711	It's different maths and vice versa. It depends on the math, but it certainly doesn't depend on the mathematics of whether cars are moving in the municipality, moving safely, 24 hours is the passage there. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of my colleague Ivan Radic, I went out for a pay phone and submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group an amendment to Article 62 as well as to Article 61, Mr Krasic explained this earlier. Since I am the last speaker from the SRS under this law, I will really try to say one more time, which should be taken as a serious warning if this law is passed. The tax administration is the only one in the state technically and personnel qualified to control and collect fiscal incomes, and even revenues belonging to local self-government and should remain as a single service at the level of the Republic. In fact, the proposal for this law is usually tossing dust into the eyes of MPs and local self-government, and I come from local administrations and if I am well aware of this problem, where instead of decentralisation of public income, there is a decentralisation of jobs, in that the serious business of determining the collection of public income control is transferred to local self-government. Instead of doing so, the Tax Administration, which is competent under existing legislation, regardless of whether it is a Republic or local income. That's why this law has to be rejected for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is the following – Tax Administration is currently politicized by G17 plus. That's the facts. All people came along the party line and they don't know, many people don't know they're doing these jobs, and they don't want to make a real business organization and get the IRS to effectively charge all public revenues. She, in fact, transfers this hot potato, as Mr Krasic said, to municipal authorities. These so-called. Local public revenues are charged directly by means of a solution from citizens and entrepreneurs, which represents unpopular measures, and the Tax Administration G17 transfers public dissatisfaction pressure to the municipal government soon before the elections, which I hope will be made as soon as possible, to autumn. They leave for themselves to collect clean VAT revenues, excise taxes and profits that citizens don't even feel. Look what this is all about. They're good for collecting political points through later releases. I repeat, it's a tax administration run by G17 plus. The creation of local tax administrations is developing one of the most efficient state bodies, which is their goal. It will create a politicisation of these services at local level that will depend on the will of those in power. We have to admit that. Different treatment will be made from municipality to municipality, and eventually all will have lower revenues in the budget. The tax administration must be unique at the level of the entire Serbian state and charge all these revenues, which is quite normal, with the same intensity. In fact, it means that it must build up its internal systematization and software support so that it can charge all local revenues in general and effectively, Article 6, which Mr Krasic just listed, that I am not counting it now. Art. The 58th and 59th laws could also be deleted, but we didn't put it and it doesn't matter that much, because we simply wanted those amendments, citing that individual members were being deleted, to draw attention that this law was not right at all. It should not be adopted, because it does not make any sense that what many tax administrations in Serbia are not doing, because they are not well organized, see what is happening now. Many tax administrations in the municipality are not well organized, and now they need to take over some work from the Republic Tax Administration with people who don't know how to do the job. They're incapable of doing business, and the local administration needs to take them along with the office and the equipment, all other means and people, and in fact, it's a waste of the hollow. And there, at the local level, it has to be organised from the beginning, and I'd say, I'm sure, with the fall of overall efficiency, rather than having a little effort to organize it at the level of the tax administration. All in all, the law needs to be rejected in general, because he's a total failure, we don't need decentralisation of jobs, we need decentralisation of income. In fact, it is an attempt by Mladjan Dinkic to place a cowardly egg on us with local self-governments, which means that the revenues, from Articles 35 and 36 in general, will be the revenues of local self-government, not like so far, of the Republic and the province. It should go with the proposal for local public revenues to be also a capital gain tax, part of the company's profit tax, etc., not to assign unpopular work and dissatisfaction to local self-government. It is not negligible here to say in the end that this idea is counterproductive to the functioning of the Tax Administration itself, because it is divided into two data systems. No one has talked about it, which will make it difficult to introduce a synthetic tax method, and ultimately will lead to a fall in the billing of all budget revenues in the country. It will be a big problem, you will see for yourself in the next period if this law is passed. I'd be done with this, but I'd take the opportunity, Mr. President, to ask one parliamentary question, to pass and record. It's about the insistence of a large number of people in my municipality of Apatin, wartime military disableds, single mothers and children without parents, the unfortunate people who died in the war, and you know that the area of Apatin that embraced a large number of evicted and evasive faces in 1995, that each third was exiled and avoided face. Many of them are left to live today in Apatino. A decision a year and a few days ago gave us that Apatin, among other cities in Serbia, received 32 apartments from the Japanese government's donation. Negotiations were made, I attended some meetings, we set up locations, these people came to Apatin, we provided infrastructure, even projects, we handed everything over, and when it was supposed to come to life, just for a year no one did anything about it. In the meantime, it happens that some municipalities have won and started building these apartments. We published it on all our mouths through the means of information, and printed and written, to help these unfortunate people at least with that amount of housing. It's just, something happened that, in my opinion, is amazing. I refer this issue to the resolution ministry led by Minister Lalovic. It happened that we didn't get any apartments after a lot of papers and negotiations. It was by accident that I learned that what was intended for the municipality of Apatin was given to the municipality of Indjija and the famous president of the municipality of Indji – Mr Jesic, who paints himself every day and presents himself as an extremely successful president of the municipality. Is that how it's done, that these people lose those apartments? Everyone needs them, but the whole of Serbia knows that Apatin was a center for accepting exiled persons as a border post, and Mr Jesic received those apartments probably because he is good with the government and with Mr Lalovic, with Dinkic taking pictures, etc. We figured that out the other day. My question would be – to be explained to me personally as a national MP, I represent the citizens of the Municipality of Apatin, which is why the municipality of Apatin lost that donation to the Japanese government when everything was settled for the construction of 32 apartments for wartime military people.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28713	So your question is, was it premeditated for the Apatino municipality before?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28714	Why didn't Apatine get what had already been solved?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-29-0.u28715	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you all for your responsibility. Continuing, a search in detail on the 10th item of the agenda, Tuesday, July 4th at 10.00 p.m.
