ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 156 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Veroljub Stevanovic has been prevented from attending the session. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda, which were established by the Government in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I thank the press the way they follow the session and now I ask you to allow us to begin our work. Thank you for understanding. Dear MPs, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, which was called upon by the Government, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with a set agenda. For the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Agenda was set out: 1. Consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act submitted by the Government; 2. Consideration of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2006 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposals for decisions on granting consent to: (a) Decision amending the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers for 2006, v) Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2006, (v) Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of health insurance staff for 2006, d) Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2006. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget System You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 36 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes, 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, Parliament group New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes, 24 seconds, for European Serbia, five MPs - 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs, two SDP MPs, six independent MPs - five minutes each, based on Article 93rd item 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Before I ask for a word, I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised, for the SRS - MP Veroljub Arsic, for DSS - MP Slavoljub Matic, for G17 Plus - MP Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic, and for the Parliament group of New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - MP Miodrag Stamenkovic. Does Master Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29184	Dear Members of Parliament, amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act are as follows. First, we want to introduce a multi-annual budgeting into our budget system, given that we adopted a national plan in the government that should be introduced from 2006 to 2011. In that sense, we want to introduce, for the first time in our practice, more annual budget planning, which is the standard in most developed countries. So we're also introducing a program part of the budget. Also, this law helps us to realise the single vault system, strengthen the provisions relating to budgetary inspection and audit. We've also got some additions to fund local self-government. As regards multi-annual planning, the idea is that funds are allocated for certain purposes in the budget for one or more years, that they cannot be relocated from one purpose to the other, that the funds are expressed according to programmes, or projects, and that the proposal for a financial plan of the direct user is also a requirement for the allocation of these funds. As far as the programme budget is concerned, this budget consists of a general section, a special section and a programme part of the budget. The showdown of funds is based on the programme classification, and the classification is shown in strategic areas and main areas. By amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, we contribute to strengthening the single system of the Treasury through different provisions of this law. Also, this law and the single system of the Treasury contributes to the increase of the budget, as the realisation of expenditure is first carried out from the same incomes of users, and for certain purposes, the transfer of funds from the budget is carried out for the realisation of these revenues. This prevents the accumulation of own funds in the account of users. Probably the most significant changes in this law concern budgetary control and budgetary inspection. In fact, a central unit for harmonising financial control in the public sector is being formed at the finance ministry, which brings us into line with European Union standards. This unit shall perform central harmonisation and coordination of methodology, control and audit in the public sector, define standards, methodological instructions, issue certificates and train managers and public sector employees in the field of financial control and management. We now exercise this law to separate competences and to specify functions of internal control, internal audit and budgetary inspection. We are introducing into a system of public finances internal control, established by direct and indirect budget users, compulsory social security organisations and public enterprises established by the Republic, or local authorities. So now there's an obligation at all these levels to establish internal control. In order to establish internal control, the manager, or the person authorised by him in this sector, is responsible. As regards internal audit, internal audit is introduced as an obligation for direct and indirect users of compulsory social insurance organisations and public undertakings at the republican level and at the level of local self-government. When it comes to criminal provisions, we are strengthening criminal provisions in the event of a lack of respect for the budget inspector's solution, suspending the transfer of funds from the budget can be carried out up to the level of unsustained funds. For the first time, a criminal offence has been introduced for the purposeless spending of the budget. So far, it's just criminal charges. So, if any of the budget users, whether in the Republic, or in the locale, create commitments and pay over the amount approved by the budget, it withdraws criminal responsibility and this law gives clear guidance to prosecutors and courts on how much that responsibility can be. Infringements for economic crimes are also increasing. I'd say these are the key changes in the Budgetary System Act regarding criminal provisions. For local authorities here, criminal measures are being stepped up in the event of a lack of respect for the budget inspector's solution in the control of local authorities. Temporary suspension of a part of the tax on territorial autonomy up to the level of unintended funds, temporary suspension of the transfer of funds to units of local self-government is possible. Also, those local self-governments that are subject to the opposite of the Public Debt Act, for a greater amount than the one permitted by the Law, may be temporarily suspended transfers. It is also possible to suspend the transfer of funds unless their placement is carried out in accordance with the Law. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't take the floor here anymore, because the key point we're going to have in the coming days is budget rebalance. As far as amending the Budget System Supplements Act is concerned, these would be key changes, which allow even stronger control of the use of people's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29185	Thank you. Does the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by Serbian Radical Party and New Serbia MPs 9+9. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic. Come on, do you want me to move you? As I am informed that a list of New Serbia has been reported for the second item of the agenda, MPs 9+9, MP Zoran Krasic, and let the MP Mita Avramov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29187	The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that this is practically the seventh change to the Law on the Budget System. The first was brought in 2002, then the finance minister was the one currently in one bank, so he advertised himself through the bank and wants to re-enter political life, as Europe's perspective leader and wider. So the sixth time we change the most democratic regulation that regulates the budget system. What changes in this bill? Even the initial definitions on which this law was created are changed, but it doesn't change, let's say, what it means to be a propriety. Now, let me remind you of the meaning of the appraisal directed by Bozidar Djelic, which remained intact. He says that the appraisal is when the National Assembly, or local Assembly, of the Law on the Budget of the Republic, or the decision on the budget of the local government, is to empower the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent executive body of the local authorities, to spend public funds up to a certain amount and for certain purposes for the financial year. So the appraisal is related to the power of the executive authority. It is defined as a government or executive body of the local government. Under the second item of the agenda, you will have a budget rebalancing law, where the title of the appraisal is everything for both direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget. Only in the principle debate do I point to this problem. We'll explain it more in detail about the amendment. The programme part of the budget is being inserted because of the epochal thing that has been invented, because it is going to meet the upcoming elections. It's called the National Investment Plan. If anyone talks about legalism, I would just remind those who came to power on the wave of legalism, won voters' votes, legitimately, that, judging by what is proposed today under the first and second points of the agenda, that national investment plan is something for the future. This future begins from the day these two laws enter into force. Read the paper, and you will see that the National Investment Plan has already begun to be realized. According to the paper, there was little shortage of beatings in Nis, as part of the National Investment Plan. What's the National Investment Plan? Is that, perhaps, something that already exists in our budget system? Let me remind you, when the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia is being prepared and the draft budget of the units of local self-government is regulated by the existing Article 19. The law, then point 3) of paragraph 2 contains requirements for basic means of supplying equipment, additional funds for capital projects launched in previous fiscal years and for new capital projects. Then what's the National Investment Plan? Whether the National Investment Plan covers the items of something that has happened in the Republic of Serbia in recent years, and as regards changes in the election will of citizens at the local, in the additional elections, when a group from the government comes along, although it is not New Year's Eve, so they promise, as Santa Claus, to share gifts, to transfer funds, so it is necessary to change something in the Law on the Budgetary System and in the Budget Law, to cover what has been paid, and to vote for those nightly asphaltation of the streets in the locals, to cheat, and that is the right word, to deceive voters, to win the additional elections, as it was, Sasha, vote for Sasha, etc. All of you who vote for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, know, make an ex post legalisation of something that has already been done, because common sense would not be able to justify the addition of the team from the government to the additional elections and say - if you vote for Sasha, you will get so much and so much. What's at the local level is already defined by the budget. How can you do that on the side? There's a whole series of regulations that are changing. Not only is it a rigorous control of the dedicated use of budget funds by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the executive government, whether it is a ministry or one of the competent state authorities, but a parallel power is being introduced, as the finance ministry will also be able to control public enterprises of local importance, parallel to the founder of the public enterprise, and then data and reports on the business of public enterprises will be used selectively. Another provision is interesting, and that is a provision for introducing a new crime. The question arises - why is a new crime being introduced? Wasn't that a crime so far? I guess it didn't exist. Why is this crime imposed by this law on the budgetary system, why is this crime not prescribed by the Criminal Code? There's not a year since the Criminal Code was passed. And that's when the intervention could be carried out. It's not done. To remind you, representatives of the government have been indicted through newspapers since 2000, criminal charges have been filed on Djindjic's orders and his agents for unintended use of budget funds. For six years, those criminal charges have been there. There's now a new crime going on, so there's been no crime so far. How could you persecute someone for a nonexistent crime? And you, persecuting for a nonexistent crime, deceived voters, and got some votes. Are you admitting it now or sending another message? To remind us, no final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget has been adopted in this assembly for several years. Come on, that final bill you've been throwing away and looking at since 2000, it's all been criminal. What was the crime in the 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, budget, I can now mention in 2005? Is democracy recognised by the fact that when a democratic bloc comes to power, no regulation applies? In the sixth year of power, you admit there was no crime on which you founded the first year's election victory. It is unlikely that, in one financial year, the basic regulation on the budgetary system is changed, so that immediately after the entry into force of the regulation, it will be installed in the budget rebalancing for the current year. The budget regulations are usually adopted in one year, and are only applied in the budget for next year. But there's no rule here. It's said -- multi-annual budgeting, program part of the budget, harmonisation and so on. The single system, and even in its explanation, states that this part, I think, refers to Article 15, is the EU's demand in the area of financial control in the public sector. Why wasn't it done in 2001, 2004, 2005? Just to remind you that when you changed this law a few months ago, too, maybe it wasn't quite a few months ago, it might be closer to saying a year ago, it was also a story of epochal changes aimed at harmonising with EU regulations. How did you miss it then? Now it's come back up again. You can imagine a provision that defines that if the local government executive authority does not deliver the local self-government budget proposal to the local self-government assembly, then the local self-government unit assembly can adopt the budget. How? How can he adopt it if he doesn't have a proposal? How can you bypass the wrong law on local elections and bad law on local self-government? Let me remind you how bad the rules are. Elections are now scheduled for the Barajo municipality. Do you know that the elections in the city's municipalities are defined by the Statute of the City of Belgrade? How is it possible for these choices to be discussed there? What's a local self-government unit? You killed yourself by proving yourself, so how did you call the city hall election, based on what regulation, what law did you obey? I think you've gone too far in these things. Major powers are given to the finance ministry, no matter how it appears. It appears, believe me, in the form of an octopus, because it's so branched out, that those who think they're government, that they're government, they're actually the service of the Ministry of Finance. The local government is the Ministry of Finance's service. All ministries are services of the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because absolute control of all the funds intended for public spending is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Now look, the Law of Infractions prescribed a period of limitations of one year for these regulations. If infringements concern budgets and budgets, a general three-year limitation period is foreseen and internal audits exist, internal control, budgetary inspection, all possible instruments of preventive control of budget spending. Why is it so done? You've robbed Bosnia of the opposition who holds power in local self-government. Now the budgetary control and the others from the finance ministry will in all likelihood find a non-intentional spending, and again, as in 2001, criminal charges for non-intentional spending, and there was no crime. It means he's cheating on the citizens. One cheats them, like Jovanca Micic, on trips around the world, on peacekeeping missions, this landless one, the other with another story distracts them, and you in the bar, the citizens, who are due to go to the elections in the next day, you will have to watch "Palma". What that woman said, “if it wasn’t Palms, we wouldn’t know what a monkey in Jagodina looks like, ” because of the zoo, of course. These are the frauds offered to the citizens. It's easy to fool the citizens. One of the government's representatives comes to support there some candidate of a coalition of parties made up of the government of the Republic of Serbia, promises funds, sets off overnight asphalting, some shift to be seen, with a small number of voters coming to the polls, one of the party's representatives in power wins, but thus changes the electoral will. Obviously, the additional elections by the parties in power in the Republic of Serbia create a good starting position for the future parliamentary elections, and this law on amendments to the Budgetary System Law should iron out all these gaps and non-purpose spending of funds that took place during the local election campaign. And that's the whole story. Look at how it's done. There's talk of a future national investment plan, and already in some places it's promised -- you're so separated, we'll end up so much, it'll be like this, it'll be like this. You heard those in culture are already screaming -- everything went to Belgrade, it didn't go to the side, but there's a group of people, like magicians, sharing their hats and fists, they decide everything and everything. Let me remind you, within the second item of the agenda, think about it. There's a division for the Foreign Ministry, there's a division for the Ministry of Defence and there's, in the assembly procedure, a law amending the Ministry Act. How can you plan funds for Vuk Draskovic? I'm talking about Vuk Draskovic, because the ministry doesn't exist. How can you plan money for the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and escape into a mouse hole? Vojislav Seselj was deprived of his right to defend himself. You invite citizens to prove their innocence there. Did any of you raise your voice because you're violating the fundamental human right?- I'm sorry. Have you asked if the European Convention on Human Rights applies in Europe? No, I don't. You're in the story of local elections, you're in other stories. Who are you protecting? Whose interests do you satisfy? Just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, years of retirement age have increased, and people have been expelled from work. What do they do when they're 45 and 50? They can't make a pension, you can't hire them anywhere else, or anyone who wants to hire them. I don't know what you're thinking, I don't know how many NGOs are going to help you, I don't know how many new leaders of NGOs and that other group, those in theory who are called "helpful idiots", like those who were blowing up here this morning, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. You're having a problem with DOS, with the original DOS. This amoebiation of them, the divisions, these coalitions, and those coalitions, here's the law that needs to cover that nonsense, their accidental spending of funds. Remember, take the papers, do press-clipping, and see. They've already spent the National Investment Plan, so what are you bringing to our agenda? Go, like John, but he's won a lottery trip around the world, and whoever pays you a trip around the world, whose money you spend, what you spend it on, for your positioning. Why didn't you point something at social protection and something for these roads you're doing? Here's this Bogdanovic, five times the same street drills over the year. Shall we open the papers and see how it's done, why do it? Last year, during the European Championship, 120 streets were deliberately opened. Now they're also opening up in the weather. Why? To be afraid of citizens? I call upon the citizens to exit from this depression immediately. They should trust themselves and those who care about the truth and justice first. Don't you raise your voice for violating the elemental human rights in The Hague, but to rub your hands?- I'm sorry. You've prevented the law of co-operation and help families. Why? Because you asked Vojislav Seselj to be in The Hague, so that you might be in power longer. Through every law you want to legalize what you've done dirty. You will not have the consent of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29188	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the special debate on the amendments to the Budget Law and the budget rebalancing of the budget is only to be held very briefly on this amendment and the addition of the Budget Law. When there's a matter of rebalancing, given that there's a lot of things involved, then we'll talk more specifically. I only want to stay on one question when it comes to amending and supplementing the Budget Law. To remind myself, in the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said that changes are being proposed, in the part relating to the programme part of the budget and medium-term planning, in order to largely identify funds for investment programmes, which would contribute to faster implementation of the economic policy objectives, through faster economic development, greater employment. So, the bottom line is that the budget law provides funds for the National Investment Programme. Of course, when there are stories about budget rebalancing, we will also talk more about the National Investment Programme. So far, just a few remarks. As socialists, of course we support every investment programme, everything that allows faster development, faster employment, etc. I'm afraid this is where it went in reverse order. It would be a real national investment programme if the Assembly adopted it and adopted it, that it was based on a previous national development strategy in the Serbian Parliament. But about that one. In my opinion, these issues related to the National Investment Programme have a bit of a ring to it as if they want to legalize something that is already being done. In that case, I'm not ready to support anything like that. Here's a concrete example. The elections were scheduled for October 1st in several municipalities, including the Barajevo Municipality. The question really arises, given that the unit of local self-government is Belgrade, on which these elections are being called. The second question is what are the reasons for the election to be discussed four months earlier, who estimates it, who decides when to do so. Third question. We're witnessing that barajev juicers are paved every day and night, and he's there with bogeymen, bulldozers, etc. Is that funded by the National Investment Plan? If it isn't, what are those funds? We know that when the elections are over, the badgers will go, too. But more specifically, when it comes to budget rebalancing. What I want to say this time, and three years I repeat, is this. You know, the Budget Law is a law whereby the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia approves for each year expenditures and other expenditures, revenues and other incomes, borrowings and other financial transactions of the Republic, etc. In that chain of budget preparation, the establishment of drafts, proposals, adoption and implementation of budgets, there is also one part of the story that is most important, and now we are not able to figure it out, which is the control of budget implementation, the control of the use of budgets. I'm going back to the last question. Why am I asking that question again, this government has managed very successfully in these three years to hide all the marifets of the previous government? She didn't want them published here in the Assembly. Instead, we read in the press how much the Minister has damaged the state. We couldn't hear it here. Secondly, this government has huge money. It is time for both the public and the congregation to report regularly on how that money is being spent. This government must not be remembered, and we who support it should not support it, because it will hide everything called abuse, etc. I was offered an amendment proposed by the government on its own proposal to amend the law. According to the law that has been in force so far, the budgetary inspection has been in control, as it stands, of the application of the law in the field of material and financial operations and of the dedicated and legal use of the funds of the beneficiaries of the budget, organisations, businesses, etc. It was in the law so far, it was also scheduled to stay, but then one amendment came up that doesn't even stay. It said that the budgetary inspection and audit provided the minister with a report on the inspection and audit carried out, with findings, measures and appropriate recommendations. Please remember this precisely, because it also said that such a report was submitted by the Minister to the Government, and the Government, twice a year, to the Assembly. I ask, when did the Assembly have such a report on the agenda? Worse still, the proposed amendment does not even have that on its own proposal to amend the law, but it is said that the budgetary inspection is delivering a report to the minister on the inspection carried out, with findings and measures, as prescribed, but does not lie down, the minister is delivering an annual report on the work of the government's budget inspection, which is submitted to the National Assembly. So, no, by the way, the thing about how control is being carried out, what are the findings, what are the measures, etc. I don't know why this government would run away from always submitting a clear report to the public. I believe there's no reason for her to get away from it. If she's taken responsibility to hide all the marifets of the previous government, I don't see any reason why she's doing it for herself. So, the thinest, weakest part of the Budget Law is this very control, I remind you, of the enormous financial resources, because the huge financial resources were available. Don't lie to yourself, these funds are daily and how they serve political purposes, political campaigns, starting with these local elections, and so on. So why does the budgetary inspection report with all the findings deliver to the Minister, Minister of Government and not be delivered to this assembly, why did the Assembly not consider it? Secondly, why is it proposed to delete it now? Instead of the report on findings and measurements, the work report. Release the work report, it consists only of figures, how many inspections have been carried out, where, when, how, etc. This government carries a great burden of responsibility, to take off what has been following it all these years, and that is not to report to the Assembly whether budgets are being spent legally and intentionally. I warn this government will have to do it to get that burden off. Otherwise, she took on the burden that for both the previous government and this one, there is no answer to the question from now on where all the stories are in Serbia, only where the elections are. Don't let me count on it. How come so many stories in the municipalities that non-intentional funds are being spent? There was almost one case in Obrenovac that the vice president of the municipality sold his own land to the municipality for five million state money. The people know that, and we have no answer from the government to control the implementation of the budget and how the control of the funds is carried out. This is my main issue and the main drawback, not these amendments to the law and this law, but the functioning of the government's relation to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29190	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29191	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister in Kostunica's government, left the National Assembly session in the middle of a debate on a package of laws that were very bad and against which the SRS voted and travelled to Ireland, as informed by his party colleague Predrag Markovic at the time, we thought it was another one in a series of informal or formal meetings and meetings from which the state would not benefit. However, when a national investment plan first appeared on the site of the same ministry, we learned, because during the summer months, we had to inform ourselves that it was the Irish model of funding various projects, which, with its picture, was so beautifully pictured as being entered, as my Shumadinians would say, the minister in the expensive brochure provided us with the National Investment Plan. This is another scandal, that the finance minister, who knows which way, humiliates the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because today it comes with this agenda in front of the Assembly, and the National Investment Plan and the money included in the budget rebalancing, which is the second point of the agenda, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already, with agreement, of course, deployed Mladjan Dinkic by projects, which are individual municipalities, which would have been popularly said, applied. It was clear at the beginning, when the first questionnaires were sent to the presidents of municipalities, that it was political projects, that this was a political project, that it was a marketing move by this government, this minister, who would already be or not be a minister on October 1st, anyway. Where good luck to have anyone else know when that October 1st you announce for the "day D" of your retreat, to get off your people's backs and not to go out to the National Assembly with these projects, which you make your own campaigns and promotions before the elections. With this in mind, I must inform the general public today, and you MPs, that numerous abuses are already taking place by the Ministry's employees, under the blessing of the finance minister. Before the amendments to the Budgetary System Act will come to the agenda of this session, it is the law that has experienced one change under Dinkic's authority, the basic text of the law was written by Bozidar Djelic, the law is full of indetermination, the law allows local self-government to go through items: specialized contracts, service contracts and various uncontrollable contracts, which are also spoken of by a small-time colleague, millions of amounts, at least, opera or theft or magically disappear hundreds of millions of dinars, which no one can ever know, because there are no reports of budgetary inspection. We invite them all by who knows how many times, and even then, when they don't come, despite the many memos that we send to the finance minister, the finance minister says -- well, there aren't enough employees, you know, their salary is somewhere around 20 and some thousand, people aren't motivated to do that job. And then in the bill of this law and the National Investment Plan, which is nothing more than a political project of a group in power, we are given the body, or a proposal of a control body, to control that these funds of one billion and six million will be spent. First, when the presidents of municipalities who asked the Serbian Radical Party to get some of these projects, that's all that's left in the mist, because until something concrete happens and until the money goes to account, no one really knows if it's going to happen. The projects are approved, but, well, so controversial. Serious people in municipalities where the Radicals ruled the projects, however, were left unresponsive to many of them because they simply did not support such a policy by Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic, so that the funds were selectively received. Recently, the City of Kragujevac, by rebalance of the 2006 budget, has made a new task for the poor citizens of the city I live in and where the Serbian Radical Party is the strongest opposition to Stevanovic's rule, of 245 million dinars. When you mentioned that now more stringent measures would be treated by authorities in local self-government who are in debt over the allowed limit, then you should have thought about it, Mr Dinkic, as well as your associates, when you sent Stevanovic a memo just over 15 days ago, about whether or not he could assign an additional city of Kragujevac, which is currently in charge of 14 and a half million euros. The top limit of the new 245 million, which is the representatives of this group of Stevanovic, with supporters from the Democratic Party of Serbia and this phantom Karic's party, is that if you respect what you are saying here, and if this law is passed, the mayor of Kragujevac would have to answer at the same time for abuse of official office. Because, for 245 million, as far as you've granted him, we don't know a new debt, under any interest terms, no bank, we assume, because the deal certainly exists for all these jobs from before, the interest would have to be 0.014 per cent on a monthly basis in order for that loan to be realised. Then you give that authority, or approval to do something that's impossible, because we're so over-indebted as a city, and you're delivering a memo that will make you have to answer to us today, and I want to ask it as a parliamentary question. The Head of Budget and Finance Management of the City of Kragujevac, Ratko Jovanovic, sent a letter from the Ministry of Finance informing him that all the funds of privatisation in the town of Kragujevac, those 5% who, under the Privatisation Act, are to go directly for the purposes provided by law in the city of Kragujevac's budget, are to be suspended, and that in the future all the funds of privatisation, as we are expected there in the course of this year, I am thinking of the flag truck factory, which is preparing for such a thing, will not get directly. In the future, there will probably be a program for the flag cars, but certainly not under your authority, because you do not want to find them a promised strategic partner. So, the resolute man in Stevanovic's authority received from you, or from the Ministry, a written reply that the future cannot count directly on these funds, but through the projects submitted for the National Investment Plan the funds will be returned. Isn't that a direct violation of the Privatization Act? Think about it, no matter who you are who you are, who exercise power in certain municipalities, how in the future it will look when Dinkic, as before, and now even more, put everything under his paw. Because that means that any privatisation in Serbia now depends on you and that you will, by that percentage, serve dedicated to municipal infrastructure and what is in the Privatisation Act, have at your disposal? What were the conditions, other than these, allegedly listed, for people to get projects, for what were they running for? You want to tell us that it is an equal match and that the citizens of Serbia, who trust to the greatest extent the Serbian Radical Party and, individually, politician Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, should be happy that you are leading one and the other minister and one and one candidate for the president of the municipality, Sasa, Dobric, I don't know how you beat them all, and you give them a hand and a hat in the election campaign. What's in those cities where the radicals are in power? What's in those local communities where people haven't had water or sewers in 20 or 30 years? What is this brochure, Minister, for you to take pictures and to justify your trip to Ireland, the Irish project by 2011? You know, as you've started breaking the law, how many criminal charges you've yet to get, how much of it you have in that "white book" that the SRS put together, it's more like you're going to be in some closed-ass facility in 2011 that's going to have to deal with what you've been doing. How is it possible to deliver a notice and say you won't give legal resources to local self-government? Just explain it to us, or tell us that you didn't know and that someone checked out which of your associates signed under that memo. Secondly, as far as local self-government and higher responsibilities are concerned, they should certainly take care of it for the reasons I have stated. When it comes to the life cycle of the National Investment Plan projects, although this is just a list of good wishes, many of these projects cannot be implemented because there are no accompanying laws. If you have already written that it is necessary to have a law on direct foreign investment, what we have in the draft now and which did not come before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it tells us that they will be placed in a subordinate position by domestic investors. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? You carefully monitor and record and expect to give me answers and influence your party colleagues or followers to respect order and order in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dignity, above all. If it's your intention to invest in certain projects, explain it to us today, because there are no explanations of certain concepts here, and everything assuming I don't know what they mean, tell us what a nonprofit housing investment is? How did you manage to do this so far in the cities where you approved from the project, based on the national corporation, your party, first of all, on the same-minded and loved ones, and the privileged loans? Were there even representations, were the very ordinary people, the barely surviving citizens, able to compete for such a thing? I don't know any such example. For example, when it comes to a loan for agriculture, and I know that your party followers were receiving loans of 13 - 14 million dinars. I didn't find any of the only peasants in Shumadia in any of the municipalities that told me he got a loan for agriculture in 2006. It's a shame and it's something that's going to happen in the future with these funding from the National Investment Plan. We believe that all the provisions of the Budgetary System Act that you have proposed must be deleted, because they do not give security to budget users or local self-government, and neither to citizens at all, for the fair and legal spending of money. There will be even more abuses than there have been so far, and I'm going back to your answer a year and a half ago, when you told us there aren't enough people to carry out a budget inspection. We will submit our performances to your ministry and seek control in cities that we openly suspect, and we do not have a final budget report, that local powerful men have swept and laundered money from accounts, especially when it comes to items of specialized contracts and contracts by service. There are many of them both in the budget for the Republic and local self-government. Your future or current, formal or informal coalition partners are given such an opportunity to take that part of the asphalt off the highway and its processing pave the way for their villages. That's how they get political points. That can't give you either political security or points for citizens on a long-term basis. The citizens see it, they see it's a big con. For example, in places where people were forced to join Velimir Ilic's party in order to get a few hundred metres of asphalt, after unfulfilled promises, and Vela is the one who precedes these promises, along with your party associates and with you in all these additional elections. That was the case in Raznja, and before that in Smederev, wherever you want, in the King, too. People are gunned down, of course, because the minister promised them something he forgot about the next day. They demand that budget inspections investigate malfeasances in these local communities where big robbery and money theft occurred. Just advocating this law, without any concrete and stamped theft and abuse, doesn't mean anything. That is why, and especially because of the fact that the National Investment Plan, which makes up the resources of all Serbian citizens, is a clean political project and marketing you personally and individual ministers from the government, the SRS will not and cannot vote for such a proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29192	The word of the messenger of the people is Rajko Baralić; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mita Avram.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a serious matter and a serious law. I've written a few amendments and I'll talk about them when the time comes, and I'd like to use the minister's presence to ask a question and comment on something. The amendment of Article 32 states: "In the course of 15 days from the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. the decision on the budget, direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources which, in budgetary terms, are responsible for indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, shall distribute funds to indirect users in the context of their approved appraisals", etc. This is an important area, because the number of indirect users of the budget and their structure is not sufficiently visible. Earlier, to remind the distinguished fellow MPs, all indirect budget users were listed in the budget law for one year. For example, I remind you of, say, the Serbian Academy of Sciences, which is an indirect user of the budget. So there are great, important national resources in every sense that are financed in this way. I understand the point here. I am not sure that direct beneficiaries of the budget will always have enough understanding for the needs of indirect users and that, in the way we want them to do so, they will be able to accomplish their basic functions, which are often of national importance. I admit that I saw this a little late, or I'd have written an amendment about this, and I wrote someone else. I would ask, if possible, to explain to us what was the predominant position here and why in this way we are a little bit non-transparent, to use a term that is very dear to you, why we have thus defined indirect users of the budget. I believe that they are, in this way, put in a position, to say, conditional dependence on the goodwill of direct users who will share these appraisals as they consider necessary. That's one question. Second question. I'll just mention what's the subject of my amendments, and it's about Article 1 in point 32. There is one practice, and it is at the level of the principle introduced by this government, which is not good, that only the Government is declared on every strategy. I'll remind you, it's a strategy on agriculture, and now there are strategies on tourism, trade and other strategies. As I understand the functioning of parliament, if I'm wrong in something, correct me, the place where any strategy should be spoken of should be Parliament. If that were the case, then we wouldn't have the trouble of having one important area, like the entire sector, like tourism, trade, agriculture, only ministers say. With that in mind, and with this view of the government, which, by the way, is unacceptable to me, I have written an amendment that has two members, and one and the other are in favour of this. This means that I have suggested that where it is said: “The strategy is being discussed by the congregation or by the government. "they delete the words "or government," because the issue of the strategy is the issue discussed in Parliament. That's the first one. The second question is the initiative I put forward at the last session of the Finance Committee, which was adopted by the committee in the form of its conclusion. So I asked the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss once a month the dynamics and sums of funds spent from the Investment National Programme. That conclusion exists. I believed that it was more important to include it in the law and for this reason I have now submitted an amendment - that this article is changed in such a way that the government would commit itself to the Parliament, at least two months, to come out with an analysis of the funds spent. I think this debate is in principle and an opportunity to say these things here. I'm also asking the minister of support on this, because I don't think anyone can be bothered by this. I will mention a billion and a half euros, because I think that's the amount mentioned in relation to the funding related to the National Investment Programme. The structure of these funds is the following -- international financial loans from international financial organisations, privatisation of national goods and budgets. So I wrote above in the explanation of my amendment. There are no better means in one country than these funds. I believe that the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia is sufficiently motivated, i.e. competent, that if the amendment I have proposed is adopted, once every two months it will receive an analysis of these funds, to inform the Committee and the public of the Republic of Serbia. So I think that these are important issues and we won't be able to be often when I say 'we', I mean this Parliament, like this, because every year we have new funds for the National Investment Plan, that we have so many investment funds, because these sources will not be or will not be in this area. Therefore, I would ask, I repeat, that these amendments be accepted, and I would also ask for an answer to the question I have asked about indirect users of the budget. We will discuss other issues when the budget law comes, because there are several serious objections there too. I don't think it's a good thing that part of the National Investment Programme is being spent in the way that my predecessors mentioned -- to paint some rooms and other issues. Such questions, in my understanding, could not be found in the agenda when it comes to these costs. For example, when a peasant sells a field, if he spends his resources to buy himself new hooks, he will be despised by the entire village. He can sell a field to buy a machine's tool, or to do something important, to increase its substance. I have to say that part of the National Investment Programme comes down to the area of investment maintenance, which is the spending of a national substance in an inappropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29194	I thank Mr. Ambassador. Let the messenger of Mitta Abram be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29195	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, we have a very serious issue ahead of us. It's the budget. Each of us is interested in the budget, both republican and urban, and also municipal. We all live on it and, in any case, budgets should be properly allocated to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to all municipalities, not in the way it is done. The Minister sees these things differently, and that's not how it should be done. Namely, in the municipalities where the leaders of their parties defeated, they received much more in the transfer than where the opposition was headed by the municipalities. I am convinced that this system and this new budget law, proposed by the minister, will be such that the left-hand side of the hall will surely support it and vote it. Also, I think it's going to come back on their heads in a second chance, when they get into a big gap, when they're going to be brought up by the same law, and then they won't be in power. That's why they have to vote against this new law -- so they don't usurp power. I am sorry that the minister in his short exposé, speaking to the Assembly and the people of the Republic of Serbia, had a smut of reason, and mainly addressed threats and blackmail. We know that the West is blackmailing our country -- if you don't deliver that and that, we won't grant you loans, and if you deliver it, we'll write down some loans and stuff. It's all blackmail. The minister said similar things here -- if someone makes a mistake at the local level, there's a budget inspection, or if he finds any mistake, it's going to end the transfer funds. Unfortunately, many municipalities in the Republic of Serbia today are looking forward to the transfer funds, to be transferred to them by the government, so that they can improve education, health care and what is most painful on the ground. We all know that all municipalities are old and we know that health care is in crisis, that people don't have money for the most common medicine, let alone for some more expensive ones. We know a few more things. We will still speak from this pay phone about the fact that where Serbian radicals are headed, there will be a target municipality. Where the Serbian Radical Party is headed -- Dr Vojislav Seselj will certainly come under budget inspection and will surely have the task of finding any mistake, and the smallest, to lift the transfer, so as to speak later, as elections are approaching -- that radicals are unable to rule these municipalities and that they have done nothing. We are aware of all this, and long ago we turned to ourselves, according to that people’s “Trust in yourself and in our loins, ” and as much as we have the means, we spend as much, or as household rule. We treat all citizens living in our territory equally. I will tell you that I come from a multinational environment, it is the municipality of Šid, the youngest border municipality bordering Croatia, and it is also the westernmost municipality in the Republic of Serbia. We also made a decision at the Assembly of the Municipality, that is, we introduced a tax on heavy goods vehicles passing through our municipality, so that we could repair the destroyed anyway, and it's still destroying, existing infrastructure. We didn't get it, and we can't get government approval for those things. It's simply done by the system, where the ruling coalition is in power, anything can, everything is approved, no problem, and where the opposition rules can't do anything. One minister, or every minister elected in the National Assembly, must rule against all citizens of the Republic of Serbia equally, to develop absolutely all municipalities equally, to share a cake of the republican budget in equal honor, not only where they are in power to win double, but where the opposition is hardly anything. The blackmail system will continue to rule while the coalition is in power. I had a case, here's an example, that's our municipality of Shyd, where there was also blackmail -- to cut by 10 percent of the number of employees, so, at our local level, and otherwise, it was a recommendation from the government, it would be reduced, or the transfer to that municipality would be abolished. What did we do? We had to cut by 10 percent of the government's staff in order not to cut our transfer. However, the administrative inspector returns those 10% to work, the transfer has not been reduced, and now I don't know who should be punished because these are returned to work, and we haven't fulfilled the government's recommendations. It's a good thing they didn't cancel our transfer. Imagine, too, that the transfer was lifted, because in many municipalities where they in power abolished that 10%, even the government helped us with the severance, it gave these municipalities money to pay off those severances. There are these cases, Minister, please check and you'll see. It is our desire that every minister elected in this assembly must answer to the Assembly, it must answer to the people, because it is the only way they can survive and last, and this system of work cannot survive by any chance. This law leads to the assembly not asking itself absolutely anything, that the minister has freed his hands so that he can do what he wants. The minister may have been a little wrong, or he thought he was going to be a life minister, so he'll be able to do it as he wishes, but unfortunately, there's the Assembly and we'll criticise every minister's work, no matter what, and we'll praise those who do good work, but there's no such, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29196	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, excuse me, just a moment, first Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29197	Just one note for the previous speaker. The longest suspension of the transfer was for the City of Nis, in which New Serbia, DSS and G17 plus are in power. We've suspended the Nish transfer for three months because they've violated the proper budget laws. In other words, we make no difference to party membership. Today, we suspended Kovina's transfer, where the parties of democratic options won, where G17 plus won over 10 percent. So we're not making a difference. It is exclusively for those who break the law to suspend funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29198	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29199	Minister Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tells a huge lie right now. What about Bora, Mr. Minister, because for two and a half months, the President of Bor municipality, Mr. Rankic, did not pay the transfer. Three or four days ago, I was at the promotion of these four books, which are a special form of defence of Prof. Vojislav Seselj and we regret that the president of the Municipality of Rankic would have stopped his transfer for two and a half months, probably because he was radical, because if someone else had, he would have won. I'm asking the Minister to come out and tell us what's going on with the transfer to the Bor municipality. Maybe it's because there's been a stop in the thieving of the Borski mine, because the fat affair was being prepared there.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29200	Finance Minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29201	Transfer Bora was 20 days late, so not two and a half months, but 20 days. It was paid a week or five days ago, and the reason was that the municipality of Bor spent budgets on a campaign against the privatisation of RTB Bor. They obviously have money and they don't have to finance themselves from the Republic budget, and if they're against privatisation, which is in the national interest, and they have money to finance a TV campaign against that privatisation, then what do they need money for? So when they stopped, they got a transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29202	National MP Momir Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29203	I expected, ladies and gentlemen, that Minister Dinkic would speak at least one truth today. Two-and-a-half months have not been paid to transfer the municipality of Bor. The campaign on TV was not paid, and what the poor and hungry who you left without a job from the "bulldozer" revolution meant, therefore, in the center of Bora, it wanted to stop the robbery of what they had acquired for years. You can interpret it any way you want, but for me, it's a national protest, and it's a pain in the ass. On the other hand, they've made it impossible for you to sell Bor for what you've been doing, according to the barbaric privatisation, as you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29204	The People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, here is the seventh time before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's most important, in my opinion, is that this is just one makeup of the law, so that all the irregularities that have been going back five or six years will be corrected by this bill. Article 1 states that after point 30) the point is replaced by a dot and they add new words, such as, so I'm going to give you some -- the programming part of the budget, the strategic areas, the main programme, the project programme of activities, and that's something that I think is superfluous. I don't think there's any need to write that, because that's one theoretical part of the organization, from management at all. It is even more tragic if it says that the strategic areas defined as such are the National Assembly or Government, so the question arises when it was before this assembly as a national strategy or any plan proposed by the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to realise. Here it stands only on paper, but in practice it is not, because we know that the naked truth is only the truth that the minister is carrying out and what he considers to be the same, it is realised and it is a national strategy. Then, under point 37, the National Investment Plan, first mentioned in one bill, is introduced, but we have witnessed that this law has been exploited and implemented for several months now, so beyond the legal frameworks. It could not be expected to vote first in the Assembly for the provisions of this national investment plan, and then apply, and this is a process that lasts back months. There are many provisions that don't mean anything in this law, but these are astounding, both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, such as the present position 6, which becomes a position 7, and it is changing and it is said: "The beneficiaries of the budget can create commitments and use budgetary adoprations up to the amounts set out for each purpose in the budget, i.e. up to the amount of the appraisals established under the programme." It's a normal thing, because something that's too high shouldn't stand, there's no reason to stand in this bill. Furthermore, by this law we wanted to strengthen the function of the minister, and she is very strong. Thus, Article 13 states that Article 62, following Article 2, adds a new position 3, which reads: "The minister determines the way in which the total incomes and total expenditures for local government vaults are reported," which means that he will return to local self-government. And it's strange, too, because who has implemented this decision so far? These decisions were carried out, we all know, by the Minister of Finance and, according to his orders, the transfer of funds from the republican government was carried out. Furthermore, a central unit for harmonising budgetary control and audits is being introduced, such as internal control and budgetary inspection, which is likely aimed at tightening the control of funds and expenditures. And before the end of this law, a new concept is introduced, i.e. a new member who defines a criminal offence where, as far as I understand it, he who overruns or purposelessly spends funds is subject to a criminal act and will be held accountable, which has not been a practice so far. It is probably necessary for this member, because no one can behave this easily when it comes to the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, I ask the question of what about the depriving of those rights to citizens, or budget users where the Ministry does not deny and implement the plan, as unrealised what was promised for the needs of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija? When it comes to local self-government, health care, education, it's usually said there's no means, there's no funds missing, and here we're saying that this budget is in surplus and we have resources. I don't understand whether it's a violation, whether someone should answer for it, to deny budget users the funds planned for the budget. I hope the minister tries to answer that. This budget system lacks what is the biggest problem for Serbian citizens, which is exactly the social programme. There is not a single word about social protection, and today we can read in the press that there are 700,000 people under 18 who live in poverty and poverty. It is the population that needs to secure Serbia's future, and we have not predicted a single sentence, nor are we suggesting how we help the population. In the end, I'd like to ask the Minister a question. If we can change this budget system law for the seventh time, when are we going to get a final bill for any year and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is fulfilling its function? In fact, the government, as well as the previous government, violated the Constitution, because it failed to deliver a final account in any calendar year, so that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its MPs are not acting as legislative functions, but as a normal service to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They cannot implement what is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this national investment plan, I see that there are planned and certain funds for Kosovo and Metohija. It's just a marketing move by the government of the Republic of Serbia, because to this day since Mr. Minister came to power there has been no single dinar for investment in Kosovo and Metohija. Even a number of budget users' rights, which I have already talked about, have been denied users in Kosovo and Metohija's space. I can't expect anything from a man who, as governor of the National Bank, visits America to ask what to do with Kosovo and Metohija, answered - we will give Kosovo and Metohija to you, to the Americans. That's what you said, Mr. Minister, and that's why there's not one single dinar for Kosovo and Metohija since you're the minister, so this is all you've planned so far is just one marketing move, one scam. I would like those funds to be placed down and to improve, as much as possible, the difficult life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but I think it's another big con of yours. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29206	Mr. Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29207	Let me just answer this question. As for the budget audit, we delivered the final budget account for 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 to you MPs of the Serbian Parliament as early as June this year. All four accounts were delivered, these three were delivered last year, and in 2005 it was delivered by June. If you didn't know, the Assembly is choosing an auditor and she's the one who decides who's going to do the external audit. I was informed before this session that finally, based on a public tender, an external auditor has been elected and I hope that he will do his job. We, as the Ministry of Finance and the Government, carried out our duty, so we delivered the final accounts for the previous three years even earlier, and for the past year - until the legal deadline, which is July 1st of this year. Now we expect an external audit of all four years will be carried out and will be in front of you. I never said what you said in America, of course. Then, thirty-two-and-a-half million euros were allocated by the government to investments in Kosovo and Metohija. These are, after a long time, infrastructure investments in this area. It would have been better if it had been before, but I think it's better to do it now than not to do it. Given that we have managed to save the right money, to secure these funds through privatisation, we will certainly invest in the area of Kosovo and Metohija that money we talked about. I don't want to get into controversy right now about these fake interpretations about America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29208	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mirko Četrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29209	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act is, I would say, the key proof that the government -- Kostunica, Dulic -- is irresponsible, irresponsible, and that it is composed of notorous ignorants. To pass the law on amendments for the seventh time, it says exactly what I said, because the serious, responsible and professional government, when it proposes to the National Assembly some law, does so so that the law lasts at least as long as the government does, not every time you remember something new that you forgot in that previous text. Then you go with a proposal for a new law and then we have statements, conferences and assemblies about how many hundreds of laws we've passed. How many of them are applied and how much abuse has come from these laws of yours, we'll probably be talking about it already for a month in the election campaign, and certainly even more seriously after the people's elections. Why are you passing this law? To affirm what you called the National Investment Plan, and this is how it sounds, and now it takes citizens of Serbia to think that the government is changing something epochically in its policy so far. With regard to the citizens of Serbia, of course, there is nothing to do with that job. This national investment plan is nothing new, it's not something that didn't otherwise exist, it just wasn't what it was called. The ministries have always had plans, investments in Serbia and have, of course, worked in line with the budget, or the budget law adopted in the assembly. It's all national to you now, and the National Savings Bank is national to you, but it has nothing to do with the national. You know very well what you did with the National Savings, but it was current for a while, so the citizens were convinced that when we say - the National Savings Bank, it really has something to do with something that is of general interest to Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia. We have responded to the amendments to this bill by proposing that all members of the law be deleted. I'll explain it one more time, because you from the congregation majority often abuse our amendments like this and say it's obstruction. We claim that it is not, but that this is a principled attitude of the SRS towards a bad bill, that is, under a bill of law that should not exist in the legal system. Of course, budget funds should be used in accordance with the law and, of course, it is the duty of the Republic, or the Government, as executive authorities, to use these funds in accordance with the law, but these are material regulations. This budget law is just a technical regulation, and that's why we don't think it should exist. The budget system law requires provisions that prescribe the implementation of funds, under which conditions, when and for what investment purposes, with a clear order to pass material law, and that the funds under that material law are shown in the budget law. It's the only way the budget system law should be established. Why are you doing this? Because election campaigns are under way, pre-election campaigns in six municipalities in Serbia, and you've already completed one part. You then, with Velina's "choder list" you go after Serbia, with a couple of bangers and a couple of trucks, and you promise towers and cities. This is where one of my colleagues mentioned Sasha, who was to be voted in Smedereva. They cheated on the citizens, voted for Sasha, and now they regret it, and one of the reasons why they had to vote for Sasha is to settle the road from Grocka to Smederev. Now they can't even get through to tractors, let alone cars, because every ten meters you have one rectangle out of a few squares, because it was an election campaign "choder list". Of course, past elections, Sasha chosen, forgotten what was promised to Grozky, must now go to Barajevo, Despotovac, Leskovac, Frogs, Frogs, where the October 1st elections will be held. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, or the president of the Democratic Party, who falsely represents himself as president of the Republic and of all citizens, has been actively involved in an election campaign in Republika Srpska, and is actually running a parallel campaign here for the upcoming elections, so that citizens here will say that Tadic and Kostunica are people who take care of Serbs in all Serbian countries, and there represent Dodik and Cavic as people who will somehow connect Republika Srpska with the Republic of Serbia. Then you're concluding some kind of special relationship agreement, like we need it. Of course, we have nothing against the closest ties between Serbia and Republika Srpska, but there is no need to sign any agreements. The Dayton Agreement should be kept because, as such, it is now the best solution for Republika Srpska. They deceive Kostunica and Tadic and citizens in Serbia and citizens of Republika Srpska. I would ask the minister, if he were to listen to me, from which funds were allocated these 100m euros which are some kind of joint investment with the Republika Srpska, which are to be signed today, I think, that agreement, to join those funds? Is it just an election trick? We, the Serbian radicals here and the SRS -- Dr Vojislav Seselj in Republika Srpska, argue that it is just a pre-election trick and that it will be nothing and that the citizens of Serbia and Republika Srpska will not benefit from the agreement, nor from the promised 100m euros. They spoke here of my colleagues on budgetary control, about how much here the presidents of the municipalities of the SRS, from the very establishment of local self-government and this assembly, have called and called on you, Minister Dinkic, to direct budgetary control, to see what your "yellow" friends have done before the takeover of power by Serbian radicals in these municipalities, how much they have stolen. It never occurred to you to accept some of our initiatives from here, you used to tell yourself that you didn't have enough budgetary inspectors, and then we had to take the job ourselves, so we involved public prosecutors, so in Zemun municipality we filed a criminal complaint against the former director of the Public Enterprise, a Simonovic, who stole three and a half million euros in Zemun. So, we had to take what was your responsibility, but well, we learned that job, too, we'll need it after the next election. Mr Dinkic, there's no one else from the Serbian government, and this is what everyone should hear. You're talking about the National Investment Plan that comes down to road construction. Of course, not to be misunderstood, we have no Serbian radicals, nothing against the construction of road infrastructure, all that Serbia needs, our paths are bad, but you're only doing it because the best money is being laundered at the job, and it doesn't occur to you to invest these funds in the launch of some production, so that this production is making roads. This would be done by a serious government, a government that will work after the next elections and will be the government of Serbian radicals. Thanks to your government and the previous two, Zivkovic and Djindjic, today, the newspaper has been published in Serbia, with more than 800,000 citizens living below the poverty line, and there is also statistics that 30,000 children in Serbia today do not have a third meal, i.e. their parents do not have a third meal. Yesterday, they published a newspaper of what percentages the purchasing power dropped. I don't know what you're boasting about, except for that processed asphalt, I don't know what it's called, which you're driving now, it's current at Dragan Palma, because it's best seen on Palma TV. You don't do anything else, you spend a lot of money on it, or you spend it on roads, but on what Vela said in a campaign, whether Dobroci, whether Sasha, I don't remember what it was like for me as a minister to steal five kilometers of asphalt from the highway and put it there in a village. But he never answered how many times he put in his pocket. In this brochure that you gave us – "Serbia, the National Investment Plan 2006-2007", among other things, is the control of the implementation of this national plan. You predicted that control would be carried out by the competent ministry, and now I don't know what the ministry is, since one night the culture minister comes out, so he talks about this programme from his point of view, and then this party friend of yours Tomica Milosavljevic comes out, so he talks about how these funds will be spent, so he says, he will fix the House of Health in Palilu. Then directly into the show includes the Director of the House of Health Palilu and says - I am the Director of the House of Health here, and of course I would love and love to improve my conditions, but it would be much fairer and much more useful to fix the House of Health in the Sneezing Waters, which maltenes cannot function, such is the building. And Minister Milosavljevic says, "Let the lady not worry, there will be a turn, we are working the cities now, there will be order and villages." So, people in villages, em is a remote city, em don't have a decent home of health where they live, so they should die, while Tomica Milosavljevic, Mladjan Dinkic, Vojislav Kostunica and Ivan Dulic remember that Serbia is not only Belgrade, that Serbia and all our cities, that Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, and that they all must be treated in the same way by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The next body to control the implementation of the National Investment Plan is the Project Management Council. I have no idea what it is or who explained it to us, maybe the minister will when he remembers. The co-ordination body, I don't know which coordination body is meant to be, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the special ministry, and especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, comes. Do you in this way acknowledge what we have been saying for three years, that the government is a gathering of non-invisibles who only hold interests together, agreements and purchases in front of each assembly and before each vote in the Assembly? Then you have a pearl, this national investment plan is controlled by the president of the Republic of Serbia. Now, how can someone who has such tycoons around him, criminals and thieves like Gilas, the Shutanovite, and he's no better than them, on what basis, and where does that stand as a constitutional category - president of the Republic? Boris Tadic would have to learn that he can move exclusively within what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Em formed this National Office and spread across Serbia, wherever the Democrats hold power there have small folk offices, and it did the opposite of the Constitution, and now you're pushing it somewhere where it doesn't belong. Most interestingly, in this order, Boris Tadic is in front of the Republika Srpska Assembly. He also showed it when he demeaned and insulted the dignity of the National Assembly here, when we talked about Kosovo and Metohija, when the last time he spoke as if he were a father to all of us, as if he didn't understand that the Assembly was the most legislative body. You're letting him stay here in front of the Assembly. You can freely delete all this, because the only controller for this national, as you called it, investment plan, which is actually the most ordinary spending of funds from the budget, can be the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have another body after the assembly, these are independent figures from public life. Now, this is only particularly interesting. From whom and what these personalities are independent, what are these personalities, are they Keba, Paskaljević and that group that is following these so-called so-called. democratic options in their election campaigns? One more thing, Mr. Moma Markovic just asked the minister something about the fact that two and a half months ago SO Bor was not supplied with transfer funds, and you ministers, very boldly, in front of the National Assembly and in front of the public of Serbia, answered something that really someone serious should not allow themselves. I expected you to explain something as an expert, if by chance it is, or at least as a minister, because, unfortunately, it still is, and you are, as an offended bride or as a child who goes in, so he says - I don't give you my toy, he said - they were doing TV commercials against the privatization of Bora and when they broke up with those commercials we sent them funds. If you treat Dragan Markovic like this, Palma, because every night, via cable TV, all of Serbia is watching dances in the villages of Jagodina and presenting your ministers, who have no idea what they brought there, or what they should say. Last night, that energy minister, he stopped a man, he has no idea what he came for, or who he represents, and he's talking there, he just doesn't say how much electricity he's cost. He boasts that with Dragan Markovic Palma, citizens who have no money can get free drugs, that he is not driving a public car, but is driving his own jeep. Well, of course, when without Dragan Markovic Palma, not even today, no kilos of coal can be obtained. Of course, when all the privatisations in the county are under his paw, when it's being built into every privatisation, of course it doesn't need a state car, he's provided himself with a very good jeep to drive you as well as you who go there as pendants. So, we've made amendments. In particular, this law has something to say, we'll talk about amendments. As the rest of my colleagues said, we Serbian radicals cannot vote for this law because we do not want to deceive Serbian citizens, because we tell Serbian citizens that they are still counting on local elections in these six municipalities, that they do not fall for Dinkic's, Velin and the other ministers of lies and deceptions that they are transferring from one place to another, but that they are voting for those who will surely be anti-corruption fighters, that they are not afraid, although yesterday some DSS bandits attacked SRS activists with guns to prevent them from doing their job, to make beautiful posters, to inform the public of Serbia about what kind of government is, what is the majority of the government that supports us. We hope, in fact, we're convinced that you have little left. Serbia's citizens will hold out for a little while, this budget will probably not even be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29210	The People's MP Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29211	Dear Members of the People, here we have heard from the MPs of the SRS that this is the sixth amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System. The amendment now proposed by the Government was sent to the National Assembly, or to the MPs, on September 8 as a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law. The government's seriousness, the finance minister, speaks clearly of a letter or amendments sent by the Government on 21 September 2006 on its proposal to amend and supplement the law. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law aims, as has already been said here, to regulate what has been happening in the last two months, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministers, with so-called. The national investment plan, because the government sessions held in Kragujevac and Krusevec are reportedly being allocated funds by ministries, by purpose, by municipalities and even by local communities. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through the adoption of amendments to this law on the budgetary system and amendments to the 2006 Budget Law, should accept it as a cowardly egg and, in two days here, to discuss the National Investment Plan and to serve the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition, to make preparations for extraordinary parliamentary elections for the next two or three months in these additional local elections, to deceive Serbian citizens, to believe in this so-called so-called. The national investment plan, that honey and milk will flow, that everything will be perfectly done in the state of Serbia. Citizens should believe that instead of bread they will eat asphalt, that they will turn a blind eye to what has been happening so far, in the three years of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and its ministers, as well as local authorities, where this so-called. The coalition of the democratic bloc is destroying many municipalities. I must say I come from the municipality of Kraljevo, the largest municipality in Serbia, the tenth per capita, with 20,000 exiled from Kosovo and Metohija. What happened in the presidential elections in the municipality of Kraljevo and with these lies and delusions by the Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, as well as by coming, not by his own fault, for the president of the municipality of Dr Milos Babić, was that in these nine months the citizens clearly saw what was true from what Velimir Ilic was saying throughout the municipality of Kralje, from village to village, from village to village, that everything he promised for a month and a half was a lie and deception. No asphalt, rural roads are unfalted, no plumbing, no sewers, no infrastructure problem that pressures the city of Kraljevo has begun to resolve, with the alleged assistance of the Ministry of Capital Investments. Kraljevo, after 20 years and more, has no tour around the city, and the witnesses are both Serbian citizens and MPs, as in some campaigns where Velimir Ilic is conducting the tour by transferring funds to the budgets of these local self-governments. As for the very text of amendments and additions to the Law and these provisions, the basic idea of Minister Dinkic is that under his control, in addition to everything the Ministry of Finance has taken over in the state of Serbia, put everything in place and, when it comes to money, that the Ministry of Finance and Minister Dinkic are in charge and that he decides everything with his team of experts from G17. When it comes to these bodies proposed to control budget spending, were the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, were local self-government, which should now be formed by amending this law (goes the minister, and I would now ask him a question) - who has so far controlled the application of the law in the field of material and finance business, the deliberate and legal use of the funds of beneficiaries of budget funds, organisations, businesses, or legal entities in Serbia? Who's done this before? As a parliamentary group of SRS in the Municipality of Kraljevo, we have submitted two requests for a budgetary inspection on the grounds of a reasonable legal violation of the budget for planning and construction in the municipality of Kraljevo. Unfortunately, it has been 10 months since the submission of the two requirements, the budgetary inspection has not come to the Kingdom, as it is likely that Minister Dinkic knows that he is illegally available by budget and other funds in the municipality of Kraljevo. G17 with its committee group consists of the majority in SO Kraljevo, and with the current president of the municipality of King’s Water in the sun, all the citizens of the Kingdom municipality. The funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the resources of all local self-government, these are the funds of all citizens who fill those budgets. Most of these citizens have been extremely difficult to live in, but by fulfilling their obligations both to local self-government budgets and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in return they should get to solve key problems that pressure them in the environments where they live, where they work. Unfortunately, this is not happening throughout Serbia, thanks to such a government, such ministers and local government leaders. Article 74. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law also provides for a new criminal act. As a graduate lawyer, or a lawyer with many years of experience, I can ask you a question -- what is the nature of this crime with this range of impediment -- from fines from 30.000.00 to 300,000,00 dinars to prisons up to a year? Who's going to define that sentence? Whether it will be Minister Dinkic to send a budget inspection, so, depending on who is reportedly responsible for breaking the legal rules when it comes to spending budget funds, he will give a mandate to the municipal prosecutor to request this prison sentence, if it is the executioner of the budget, the president of the municipality. If it's someone from New Serbia or from this "yellow" company, DS or DSS, I can't define what they represent and what they look like, then there will be a minimum fine of 30.000,00 dinars, which is a allowance, they spend for one lunch, because most of them have open accounts with private representatives. National Investment Program, National Savings. For the National Savings Bank sold to Greeks, Dinkic sold, Serbian citizens do not know under which conditions it was sold, as well as how most of the state banks in Serbia were sold. It's been sold in the last few days and the Vojvodjanska Banka. Who sells banks in Serbia? It's probably Dinkic, with the biggest circle of people, and then it's said, when that transaction is over, we've reached a great price. Based on what criteria has a great price been achieved? It was sold to Greeks to the National Savings Bank, still called the National Savings Bank, but no job of paying off the old foreign currency savings. An extremely lucrative job, funds are transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget, there is no risk, a good commission, and then the savings bank will work well and will continue to work well. Public procurement in the Republic of Serbia, and at the level of the republican public enterprises, and at the level of local self-government, are practically without any public, without any control. As a committee group, just one example, in SO Kraljevo, we asked for two and a half years to submit a report on public procurement made in the Municipality of Kralje from budget funds, starting with the Planning and Construction Directorate and municipal public enterprises. Local authorities, or local government leaders, will not give public procurement reports to the council. Who conducts these public procurements, under what conditions? It simply hides from the councilors, and thus hides from the citizens of the Kingdom municipality. The same is happening at the level of the Serbian state, in republican public enterprises. Apparently, there is one process of control or monitoring of public procurement, but essentially most of the public procurement is, in fact, a set-up of purchases. It is known who will set the conditions and who will submit or apply to the tender, with the conditions agreed in advance. Looking at these 350 pages of the Bill on Amendments and Budget Supplements, as well as this law, with the so-called so-called. The national investment plan, it is incomprehensible, and Serbian citizens should know that the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system is proposed by an emergency procedure and that the application of this law is foreseen, Article 31, as well as the law on the supplementary budget, the following day. What kind of rush and urgency is this? Also, Article 29 sets out the calendar on the draft budget for the Republic of Serbia, which was due to be implemented as of 1 June, and says that the preparation and proposal of the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 will be implemented on the following calendar: 1 November - The Government, on a proposal from the Minister, adopts a revised memorandum on the budget; 15 November - the Minister delivers the draft budget to the Government of the Republic; 1 December - The Government adopts the draft budget of the Republic and delivers it, with a memorandum, to the National Assembly. It is clear here that there is a huge fraud of the citizens of Serbia, as well as an attempt to deceive MPs, with such an amendment and the addition of the Budget System Law. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, you've already heard it, will not vote to amend and supplement the Bill on the Budget System and certainly not to supplement the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29212	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. National MP Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go. You have 10 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29213	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Honorary President G17 plus, today we have another one of those laws that are passed in this assembly, unlike all those nasty laws, and 250 at least 210 are like that. We passed laws that went directly from the Assembly to the shelf. This law has a job to do, which is why it's being passed. The law is with a retroactive fact. It aims to cover all those investments and quasi-investments made in Serbia, in those cities where local elections were called. I, however, wonders why Minister Dinkic is bothered about this when they leave the government on October 1st. The government's going down. Elections are being discussed at all levels, and then some other finance minister will surely have to deal with it. Let's first start with this national investment program, which is beautifully printed, on nice paper. I don’t want to bother you much, but something that fell into my eye and I have to read says: “Many people don’t have a job. ” Well, to remind the minister, in 2000, when the "buldozer revolution" took over Serbia, when "democracy" came to power, there were 640,000 unemployed. Today there are over a million and 200 thousand unemployed. For these 670 thousand, his government was in charge, in one form or another, it doesn't matter. Did he come as a future governor, with a sock on his head, with a Kalashnikov at the National Bank, or came as a minister here, it doesn't matter. He's guilty and he's responsible. He says: “There are no water in some areas. ” He found Minister Dinkic's hole in the pot. Six years you gentlemen have ruled. For six years, even a hack was not struck to do anything except where you had your Doers, Sasha, who you were clapping: “If you vote for our Sasha... "and that question is how many pre-election promises you have fulfilled. To remind Minister Dinkic, in 2000, the state of Serbia owed something under nine billion dollars. After six years of his fear and harassing the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, the state of Serbia owes over $14 billion -- five billion more. What is it that Minister Dinkic did? There's no roads, he says. There isn't. I was in an election campaign in Blatz. We barely made it past the construction machines on that Kruševac-Blace route. He's out. They've built a mile, though. That means that day has come. They've made one mile of it. Two days -- the campaign's over, it's left like that. That's where Minister Dinkic lied to the citizens of Blaca. However, Minister Ilic may have withdrawn him because Minister Ilic knows he promises so. The people of the Kings were promised an airport in Chukojevac. Minister Dinkic promises the citizens of Blaca a pool, so I fear that now all Serbian citizens listen to us, except for the citizens of Blaca, because they are now at the pools. The aim of this law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is to cover the funds spent. Where they won, somewhere they fulfilled those promises they made to the various Sashas and Goodies, but in some cities they didn't. An example of this was, exactly, Bor, which I was just talking about, where Minister Dinkic of this pay phone lied fatly to both Serbian citizens and you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The team came to Bor: eight tows, dragged bulldozers, bogers, rollers. He comes, the country's stands, two hours they talk, the bagger comes down, two hours straight that way, the stage rises, Velja Ilic rises, Dinkic rises, and the bogs rise, they go to the neighboring village. When the Serbian Radical won there, no more of those promises came true, so I ask Minister Dinkic -- is he Serbian Government Minister or Minister G17 Plus? I ask also, Minister Dinkic, although this is not a parliamentary issue, but I expect Minister Dinkic to come and respond, because whenever the chairman announces Momir Markovic as next speaker, Dinkic raises anchor and leaves. I don't know why a man hates me, can't stay here and listen to what I have to say. I ask Minister Dinkic, whose budget does he spend it on, whose money is that? If that's the G17 plus money, so we know we can raise their monument. However, the monument rises to those who are deceased, and I think that after the next elections, the party will be the former party, i.e. It won't be parliamentary, surely. The reason to pass this law is to avoid criminal responsibility for spending funds under the law. We now need this law to cover what is retroactively spent and, possibly, if any other local elections are called, until finally Serbian citizens burn to their nails and force this government to call elections at all levels. As far as transfers are concerned, the fact is that in all cities where Serbian radicals are in power, they are late with transfers. Here, I said a moment, for Bor is two and a half months late, and I think it's Leskovac. After all, Mr. Avramov said he had problems with those transfer funds. All other mayors receive funds to cover the costs of extra employees, only in municipalities where Serbian radicals are in power there is no such thing. I ask Minister Dinkic who has the authority to punish him by not transferring the funds? Who authorized him to deny money to the citizens of Bor because, possibly, on some television show, one of the heads of the municipality came out and said, "You can't rob Bor"? The pine was not made by you, nor by us, but by our ancestors, and you cannot sell so much wealth to one of the tycoons, anyone, for small money and fat commissions. We found the minister not to pay the money for two and a half months, with the primary goal of bringing the citizens of Bora, to be employed in the Bora administration, because there is only one administration working there, all these others led to a beggar stick, and then to seek, possibly, Mr. Rankic's shift. In doing so, since he does not go to Bor, he does not realize that the citizens, who were literally burned to the nail, are fed up with everything, have chosen Rankic, the Serbian radical, because they only trust him and have suffered with him for two and a half months. What the minister said was paid the other day, I'm just gonna check today. I'll call Mr. Rankic. I'll check. He's not here today, though. He's probably deploying those funds Dinkic transferred to him. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, cohabitation of the fat government. For example, Belgrade City. The city of Belgrade has over 500m euros, half a billion euros in the budget. City municipalities are reduced to the level of local communities. The Zemun municipality has five million dinars for investment when you pay the wages you're counting on. Then Velja Ilic will come and drill into the breasts of a hero, everything here has been flooded since the beating into his chest as he is a patriot, and he says that he will provide the citizens of Zemun with streets, and sewers, and water. The other day he went to Leskovac, saying -- we do domestic business, this is a domestic coalition, and already across Serbia they call him "Mr. 10%". At least 10 per cent of every tender he takes, holy Vela tenderingly. Before I move on to this law, I'd like to ask the Minister a parliamentary question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29214	You have 30 seconds to complete your exposure, and I agree that after that you ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29215	I would remind you, since I have so little time left, citizens and you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of article 7, which says, "If the competent executive authority of the local government does not submit a proposal to the local assembly, within the budget calendar set, the local assembly can bring the budget." What will it do if it doesn't come out first, I don't get it. Furthermore, Article 62 states: "The minister determines how to report total incomes and total expenditure for local government vaults." Minister Dinkic should be the absolute ruler of all Serbia. In the end, another article 74, where are those criminal provisions, just a moment to find...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29216	I tolerate, of course, thank you, Mr. Perry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29217	Wait a second, and then, when I get back to you next time, you can say no to me for two seconds. Article 74, I cannot find it, where criminal provisions are provided and where the minister will also punish the insubordination. Now I'm using the right to a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29218	May I have your permission, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all know that the lottery of Serbia was a state institution, an institution where you used to pay for sports, lottery, etc. Part of it went to the state, part to humanitarian purposes. This is how organizations that need this kind of help have financed themselves. In doing so, I mean homes for carefree children, homes for the disabled, the Red Cross, etc. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that FUN or FAN DOO Belgrade, Uskočka 4, whose founders are members of G17 plus, and Director Bojan Kristoff, by means of private property, and in accordance with the law, that is $5,000, organized, or, with the help of the government, seized Lutri Serbia, and then shut down. Employees in the lottery of Serbia fired and renamed themselves "Lutrija Srbija". So Mrs. Radeta just said, "The National Savings Room." According to the same principle, the Serbia lottery was kidnapped. Today they organize games of chance, and you know that whenever it's a crisis time, citizens are more involved in these gambling games, expecting them to look at it too, that they will get hit and solve material problems. He's never had a week before. Anyway, these big hits get G17 members, computer programs define it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the finance minister is the Serbia DO lottery or is it still a state-run institution? This kind of story and this kind of paper comes to the SRS Parliament Club, with a request to ask yourself that question from this pay phone. I ask, is DOO Serbia's lottery or is the Serbia lottery a state-owned institution, a state-owned company? Next, do you pay taxes on the events and where does he go? Third, has any money been paid from payments to humanitarian organizations? Of course, I'm not asking him to answer me orally, because he'll lie again. I ask that he answer me in writing, within our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29220	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. There are three questions, if I understand correctly, and tomorrow you will be sent to see if they are well recorded in the stenogram, as they will be in writing. According to the Rules of Procedure, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic reported, and Miss Jovanovic also reported. Here, you're the first to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29221	Thank you. Indeed, such a degree of untruth is difficult to listen to and not respond to, at least in one part. I'll start with this last one, because first of all, it's not written, it's written answer. The written answer will, I suppose, be given by the gentleman tomorrow, but it is very important that this response in oral form is heard by the citizens of Serbia. You can really get whatever question you want, but it's very hard on a not smart enough question, because I'm not going to say otherwise, answer smartly. Of course, the lottery of Serbia exists and, of course, it works. I want to say that according to the law that we have brought here, one percent of gambling is allocated to the financing of people with disabilities in Serbia. I would like to stress that in Serbia, a large number of disabled organisations have already been financed from this fund through the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm going to set an example of my city, in which in one organisation, people with disabilities, which is the Association of Parents of Children with Severe Development Disorders, is funded by the living room, right from the Games Fund, gentlemen. Not only are software activities financed, but this association will also receive through the National Investment Fund another two million dinars to finance construction works on the facility in which these children will be placed, as well as for vehicles that, from house to house, will drive children. So, I'm talking about what's going on with the revenue that Serbia's lottery is making. I want to thank the whole parliament for passing this law, which has allowed a large number of people with disabilities in Serbia to have their activities financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29222	Thank you. Please, let me be clear, the MP has asked a question in a way that is possible. Please, I am in charge of the session, be kind and you will answer, of course, thanks to Miss Jovanovic's permission to speak first. For the sake of the public, let me say that MPs are asking questions during the extraordinary session when the chairman is given permission, because if it is not stated at the beginning of the session, we all know the Rules of Procedure well, then it is not possible. I gave permission, the MP asked a question, which he won't get an answer to tomorrow, because I made a public promise that three questions would be read from the stenogram tomorrow. It is the right of MPs to ask questions in the formulation in which he wants it, and of course it is possible to open the controversy about it, because there are reports of all the institutions that are obliged to submit these reports to Parliament. Of course, the MP doesn't have to check those reports and there's no need for other MPs to suit him. Here's your line, Mr. Markovic, and please don't develop any controversy about this. The question has been asked, and you will be answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29223	Thank you. I think that's the law. I just asked Mr. Secretary clearly if he was a gentleman at all. This wasn't caused by a lady who came out and told me that part of it was being separated for humanitarian organizations. That's the law. I didn't ask that. I asked - is it separate and is the Serbia lottery a state institution or is it owned by Bojan Kristoff and a group from G17 plus? I want that question answered. If that's the case, then I'd like to be told how much the week has been paid so far, or the prize, which is millions of dollars. That amount is over 60m euros, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and that is the sum that has been robbed in this way. Please don't let the uninvited come out to answer my questions. I expect Dinkic will have so much courage to answer me, at least when I take a break to go out and say something about these things. I noticed that as soon as I was announced by Mr. Dinkic, he was leaving the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29224	I thank Mr Markovic, but as I have protected you and your rights, I also protect the rights of other MPs. He has a request to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29225	We stand by our position, Mr. Markovic, and I will say that in the end, only we will be represented by the majority in this room. I'm still staying here for the rest of the session. As for the Rules of Procedure, I can tell you that since this morning, you don't even know who's drinking or who's paying. You go in and out and there's no telling who's replacing you. You haven't informed us who it is to replace you during your absence, and that was also your business obligation. There will probably be a break now, and in the afternoon the National Assembly is discussing amendments and additions to the most important law for a country -- the budget law. You would have to, Mr. Markovic, use your right to the Rules of Procedure to summon the Minister and teach him the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying this for the reason why the minister broke Article 200 four times during the afternoon session. Rules of Procedure. I suggest you teach your needy MPs, who were educated for something else, somewhere else, that the Rules of Procedure is what they have to abide by and don't say anything. If they say they know the Rules of Procedure, let them read article 200 to the end. First of all, I want to say that the minister is asked a question, if the MP wants to, and that's in the first position of Article 200, and it's said: "... in oral form" and "the minister is obliged to immediately answer the question." I asked the minister two parliamentary questions, Mr Markovic one, and Mr Petronijevic one. Since this morning, it's four questions, how much I could register, and I was 95% present, and I don't know if I skipped anyone. It takes more time, perhaps, but the fact is that he ignored what the MPs had spoken to him. Perhaps then, Mr. Markovic, you weren't in the O.R., but that doesn't amnest you from responsibility - for not inviting the Minister of Order to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, when a reply is given to the MPs in writing, there is no correspondence between Mladjan Dinkic and Serbian Radical Momir Markovic, i.e. between Goran Zivkov and Natasa Jovanovic, because he did it two months ago. Imagine, the newly appointed Minister of Agriculture writes me a letter. I don't want to text the minister, because I don't care. He inherited Dulicka and there is nothing worse than a situation now that he is headed by the agriculture ministry. The written answer is given to all the messengers of the people, to those who are interested, and to those who throw it under the bench because they are not interested. I don't know what you're talking about, because once and for all, you have to learn order and know what the National Assembly is, how it's done, and that an MP has to be respected. No haughtiness is allowed here, nor is the haughtiness of the finance minister. He is in his position under the MPs and must be treated with respect to us. I demand that during the afternoon session, Minister Dinkic, who violated Article 200, and you warn him, using his right - statements, or says he cannot answer these questions orally, and that he needs an expert opinion and opinion from the government. That's obvious, probably for a variety of reasons. Then we'll be able to continue our work. I believe that parliamentary issues are the most important right of a member of Parliament and should be asked from any area. I believe that the authorities' bearers are mocked by every minister, including Minister Dinkic. You have several times, Mr Markovic, in the past two or three months, on the issues of journalists about when there will be parliamentary issues and whether MPs can ask these questions, since you are the bearer of this Rules of Procedure, have said that this is quite right and that we have the right to do so, and I am now asking - what does this look like now? Warn him nicely this afternoon, so if he doesn't act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we'll report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and we won't tolerate any pride. This is the Assembly, and everyone here has to respect the opinion of MPs, and above all, the most numerous -- Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29226	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. There is a word for Zoran Krasic about the Business, but in order to avoid confusion, let me say the following. The President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly he appoints, which he informs all vice presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. I was not temporarily prevented, because this refers to Article 31, paragraph 1, where it is said: "The vice presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly to do business from his work." As part of that, I always ask, as usual, one of the vice presidents to replace me in this part, while I do business from my work. I think that's okay. I will certainly do everything to respect all three members of this matter that you mentioned, which is an article. 198, 199 and 200. I just did that, and I mentioned that these members should be respected when it comes to Mr. Markovic. That's when I said this, though, Article 199. The Rules of Procedure say: "Employment issues are asked, as a rule, as the National Assembly ends work on all points of the agenda," I insist every time the MP is ready to ask a question. That question shall be recorded and forwarded. I just want to say one more thing. I have informed reporters that more questions have been asked in this session by MPs in two and a half years, than in the previous meeting in three years, and it has been reported that it has been reported that it has been responsible for more parliamentary issues than in the previous meeting. I don't think that's enough, but it's my duty to inform the public of the exact information. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, and thank you for your understanding. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29227	It's a business thing. You know, Mr. Markovic, that I rarely report to the Rules of Procedure, because I have a very tolerance for how you conduct a session of the National Assembly. However, I would draw attention to Rule 28 of our Rules of Procedure. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I orderly announce it -- one of the members of the group G17 plus came out, and he didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure by whom he spoke. That's not why I came out, nor to criticise the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but because he objects to the style of asking parliamentary questions. I don't think we should discuss tastes. I also don't object because the question has been asked by the minister, and the MP answers, or because the question is referred to a man, and the woman answers. I'd just draw attention, Mr. President, although you can't know in advance who's going to be talking about this pay phone next. The lady in question is always able to make a scandal when she comes out for a pay phone. You can see that from a stenogram if you look at them for the past two years. I don't know if it's about each other's positioning within the G17 plus or whether it's about vanity, competition or other, and I'm not going to consider it, but the false interpretations of the lady disabling the Assembly and imposing some other topic -- whenever there's an important topic on the agenda of our assembly. Then she is in charge of focusing debate and interest on something peripheral, irrelevant, in order to save a minister who is absent and who simply does not want to be in the National Assembly, because she believes that in the next phase the National Assembly should be part of the Ministry of Finance. That's the first thing I wanted to draw attention to. Secondly, on parliamentary issues, I will not enter the statistics that you have presented, it is probably true, but I will show you on one case how to deal with the parliamentary issues that are being heard from this pay phone. A year and a half ago in the Federal Assembly, an MP asked a parliamentary question concerning the then president of the National Assembly and one of his military relatives. I'm deliberately avoiding mentioning names. He got the answer that he couldn't get an answer to that question. I asked the same question here a few months ago, and I got the answer -- the government's not in charge, because there's no Ministry of Defense in its system, it's on the federal level. After June 5th, I repeated that question and I got the answer -- you're rude, you're involved in some person's private affairs. You see legalists changing the legal basis, so that this institute of parliamentary issues is essentially missed, not because of the Rules of Procedure, but because of the government's relationship with the National Assembly and with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29228	Finish it, please. Thank you. Article 28 does not apply to this. Please, as I just did, after the presentation ended, I said, you're absolutely right, Mr. Krassic. I don't know what the MP's gonna talk about. After I finished, I gave an interpretation. Also, I'm telling you right now, it's not an article 28, and I don't think that's right, and there's any reason for us to do this. Please, of course you're personally called, you'll get a replica, of course, but please, please, all of you together, to respect all the members of the Rules of Procedure, to contribute to a tolerated atmosphere, because no names are mentioned here, no matter what people recognize, so let's relax the atmosphere. Thank you, this is a real contribution. We'll do anything by the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the parliamentary groups' lists, there are no more entries for the word, so, before the principled search is concluded, I would like to ask whether the President, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29229	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have learned from the media, like all MPs, that there is some kind of national investment plan. So, some members of the government I saw in these same media how they go, how they boast that something is new, that everything in Serbia, as soon as the national investment plan is adopted, will be better, and as soon as it starts to apply, and it is about to start. That's what everyone thinks, especially an ordinary citizen who doesn't know and doesn't need to know, or doesn't need to know how the budget works, how budgets are spent. This is about the most common marketing party G17 plus and individual parties from this ruling majority. What they call the National Investment Plan is the simplest use of budgets for the regular activities of ministries, public enterprises and other public income users. There is no national investment plan, because it is probably also called the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so public funds are not collected from Mars, but from these citizens, and you return these funds through certain services to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So what's the most common plan and programme of the ministry, which the government adopts, is now baptized to be the National Investment Plan. In addition to that marketing, another fact arises, which is that this national investment fund is the most used to promote pre-election campaigns. First you start with local election campaigns and, aware of the approaching early parliamentary elections, you are now raising it to the level of the entire state, exclusively for the promotion of the G17 Plus party and individual parties from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so in these local election campaigns, as the predecessor of everything that's going on, we've seen various ministers and government members who come and say -- there we're building an airport, there's going to pool, there's going to be a road. Machines come in, they do something for a day or two, and whether their candidate wins or loses, the machines go out, and where the new elections are scheduled, they're there now, and what's started is left that way and everything goes that way. So they often know to leave a worse situation than they did in the election campaign itself. Furthermore, the story itself of these amendments and the addition of the Budgetary System Act, that by allegedly adopting these amendments and additions, it will not be necessary to prevent abuse when spending public funds. You know what, there are laws that are good and laws that are bad, laws that apply, those that don't apply, or are selectively applied. When the law is not applied, or selectively applied, it is the government's fault, because no one else can be blamed, nor can anyone be blamed for such a thing. Now you already have a situation where people close to the authorities, and even from the parties that make up the government, despite the applicable laws, are committing crimes, which there is material evidence, because no one is running criminal proceedings against them, so these amendments and additions to the law themselves are in a certain way, the marketing party G17 plus for the upcoming parliamentary elections. Now, in a few examples, I'm going to indicate what's really going on on the ground and how the state works, how the state protects criminals, and there's material evidence about it. First, elections in the municipality of Žabari were scheduled on October 1st. I'm just going to do some crimes, because no state body has responded, even though he was familiar with it. So, first of all, there's an 11th June municipal assembly disbanded. Before the release of SO, the Assembly itself brought budget rebalances to the municipality. The rebalancing was refused by the president of the municipality to publish in "The Official Messenger", although by law and the statute he is obliged to do so. What happens next? It happens that the government of the Republic of Serbia is forming a temporary body of administration that will manage the municipality until the local elections are over and some new assembly majority is formed. It happens, then, that the provisional body, two months after the session of the SO, where the budget rebalance was voted on, makes a decision, be careful now, about the first budget rebalancing, even though the Assembly and the committees have declared their first rebalancing. The first rebalancing was, in fact, a rebalancing that corresponded to the current and then the president of the municipality, so that he could make all of his abuses that he had during the year to cut and wash through that rebalancing. Look out, next, the president of that temporary body is from the DSS. It makes a decision, i.e. it signs the decision on behalf of the provisional body, means on the first rebalancing, and the date on which the decision was made is 11 May, a month before the Assembly was disbanded and before the temporary authority of the administration was formed. No one responded to that, the abuses that occurred in the spending of budget funds were covered, thanks to that man and that temporary organ, and there is a G17 plus. However, they have a member of the temporary authority and manager, although they never had a councilman there, but the government is setting him up. The manager, by the way, is from the Fireman municipality. He's got to be on the payroll in the Sabari municipality, which is usually poor, and he's got work to do in Pogorevec, so the man gets two salaries. Then the question arises, where do you come from this week, and maybe you're setting up results, maybe someone's buying out profits to launder money. Let's get back to the Frogs. In 2001, 16 million dinars were paid from the Republic Road Directorate to build a local road of 3.5 or 4km. That's when the machines came in, they did 600 meters, and now it's happening again. Capital Investment Minister Velimir Ilic, then, goes behind him, Branko Jocic, and promises that now they will finish the trip and that they have provided the funds. How did you secure the funds when the trip was paid five years ago? Where's the money? Why aren't the papers done? They bring in machines, and they work one day, and then they move them to another place, and then they move them to a third place, just so that those few machines can see as many locals and municipalities as possible, that you fool them into doing something. Several times, the Assembly of the Municipality has asked for a market inspector to be sent to determine irregularities in the work of the President of the Municipality of Žabljaj. The Ministry has not responded, has never been invited, nor has this inspector ever come, but, behold, the president of the municipality hires his private auditor to carry out an audit of the business of the municipality and puts it on the pleading and adoption of the economic authority, which supports him. He's hiring his private auditor to determine how budget funds have been spent! That's what it looks like when laws are selectively implemented or not implemented, and you can write on these papers whatever you want, because the law doesn't apply to you, you're a monarch, you're a monarch, you're a law enforcer and you're tailored to him. The question now arises, how is this happening in Republika Srpska, that now, during the elections in Republika Srpska, suddenly mentions an agreement and the signing of the 100m-euro contract? First of all, let's face it, we don't mind the program Republika Srpska's help, but I'm asking a question - why are you doing this now that the elections are there? Since 5 October 2000, since you came to power, all possible ties with Republika Srpska have been broken, both by business, political, military, and police. You left her alone, as she knows and knows, to keep what's written in that Dayton agreement. Now suddenly, when the elections in Republika Srpska, the great patriot Dodik, the great patriot Dinkic, agree that they will change and buy the citizens' will there as well. That is when authorities reach a group of people who work exclusively in their interests, not in the interest of citizens, a group that is the only goal of making as much money as possible in the collapse of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29230	Anyone else want a word? (No) I am concluding a principled search. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. One year, with proposals on the date of consent, you received this proposal, with proposals from the government before the opening of the original search. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time has been allocated by parliamentary groups to a relatively large number of MPs, members of parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. Thank you. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I am opening a principled search on the bill and a single review of the proposals for decisions to give consent, at the same time. All MPs present in the O.R. today, I would like to inform you that, according to Article 85, we will only be working until the finale of the principle debate on the second item of the agenda, which we have now opened. There will be no session tomorrow, there will be a break, to discuss any other amendments that may eventually arrive during the debate, so the follow-up in particular will be on Wednesday at 10 am, at the same time, under Article 85(1). I'm taking a break to 16 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you very much, very much. Once again, I ask the parliamentary groups who have not handed over the list of speakers to hand it over. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our afternoon work today's session. As you know, at the end of the afternoon, we completed the debate on the 1st item of the agenda and opened a principle search on item 2 of the agenda, as well as on Article 85. Rules of Procedure, pages 5 and 6. I have informed all MPs that we will be working today until the end of the principle and uniform search of the item on the agenda, the draft law and the proposal for decisions on granting consent, and that tomorrow there will be no session, in order to create business conditions to consider amendments or, possibly, to submit amendments during today. The sequel will be on Wednesday at 10:00. Now I ask if the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, wants to talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, with proposals for decisions on granting consent? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29232	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. First, I'm going to announce the reasons for the rebalance of the republican budget. We have several important reasons. First of all, in the first eight months of this year, we have achieved a surplus income over the expenditures of 32 billion dinars. If you remember, the draft budget envisioned a surplus of 39 billion in 2006. Given that we have already reached a 32 billion surplus in the first eight months, our forecast is that the surplus will be increased by an additional ten billion dinars, so we expect ten billion dinars more surplus than the whole 2006 plan. Basically, the budget surplus, without the National Investment Plan, should be around 49 billion. In addition, much higher revenues were achieved in the privatisation process compared to planned revenues. We expect that the privatisation revenues this year will reach 131 billion dinars, which is 100 billion dinars more than planned. Total, the overall surplus of budget and privatisation revenues is 2.1 billion euros. So for the first time, Serbia is in a situation that has over two billion euros in surplus in its account. The government therefore decided to allow investment through the budget rebalancing projects of the National Investment Plan. Secondly, we decided to use this surplus to reduce our external debt. So we're going to have a combination of investments, and, on the other hand, a reduction in public debt. What is new about budget rebalancing compared to all the budgets previously made in this assembly? For the first time, we have as much as 12% of the budget for investment in infrastructure, i.e. capital expenditure. Three times the capital expenditures are rebalanced than they were in the original budget. Of course, without large capital investments, it is not possible in any country to have strong economic development and we are sure that these capital expenditures will have a favourable impact on the increase in employment. Given that for the first time in budgetary practice we are introducing multi-annual planning of capital expenditure through the National Investment Plan, we predict that next year capital expenditure will be as much as a quarter of the Serbian budget. For example, it was far less in the past. In 2001, it was the first year of transition, capital expenditures took part in budget expenditures with only 3% and that amount did not change significantly until 2005, when they participated with around 4%. So, from last year's 4%, we increase capital expenditure to 12%, which is three times higher, and next we climb them to 25%. It was kind of my professional dream to get into a situation where we had a budget that wasn't social, where the expenditures for transfers to the Pension Fund and subsidies to social enterprises don't dominate, but that the most of the budget were capital expenditures. I think this trend will have to continue in the years to come. This way, for the first time, we get the budget of stable conditions, where capital investments make up a significant part of the total budget expenditure. As for revenue projections and budget expenditure, the total budget revenues this year will be 521.3 billion dinars, expenditures are expected at 505.8 billion dinars. Of the 505.8 billion dinars of expenditure, 446.7 will be used to finance budget spending regularly, and 33 billion dinars for projects under the National Investment Plan. So the National Investment Plan is an integral part of the current, or, in this case, capital expenditure of the budget, and for the first time we have such a case. After that, the budget surplus will be 15.5 billion dinars, assuming that all 33 billion dinars from the National Programme are spent by the end of this financial year. The budget law stipulates that up to 50% of the neutral assets from this one can be transferred in the next financial year. It's my guess, given the day we're considering budget rebalancing, which is the end of September this year, that it won't be realistic in the next three months to spend all this planned money due to public procurement procedures and other factors, so probably a good part of the money will be transferred in the next year. And assuming everything was spent, all 33 billion, the surplus would again be 15.5 billion dinars. I repeat, in practice we expect that at the end of the year there will be a greater surplus than this. This makes 0.7% of gross domestic product, so Serbia will end this year with a minimum surplus of 0.7% of gross domestic product, but again I say that I think we will end up with a significantly more than 1% of the budget surplus compared to gross domestic product. The comparisons for 2002, in the total budget balance, we had a negative balance of minus 4%. In other words, expenditure was significantly higher than budget revenues. In 2003, the budget deficit fell to minus 1.3% of gross domestic product, and only since 2005, since last year, Serbia has for the first time a budget surplus. If we compare ourselves with other countries, it seems to me that the best example is what has been happening in the last days in one of the countries that has joined the EU, but clearly has not met all European standards, regardless of what has been accepted, which is Hungary. They have a chronic budget deficit between 6 per cent and 8 per cent of gross domestic product, disqualifying them for current EU aid, and you can see they also have major internal problems. I think that all those who were skeptics two years ago, when we first announced a budget surplus, in the coming years will support this policy, or a balanced budget, or a mild budget surplus. I think Serbia will need either a mild budget surplus, or a balanced budget in the coming years. As far as privatisation revenues are concerned, I have already mentioned that 130.8 billion dinars will be realised this year, which is over a billion and a half euros in privatisation revenues. On the other hand, last year was a record 31.4 billion. This year is almost 100 billion more than in the record year 2005. When privatisation started in 2002, privatisation revenues amounted to 114 billion dinars, so now we're really in a situation we haven't been in before. This is a new situation where we have no problem with the deficit, but we need to think about how to use the extra money that Serbia now has carefully and most effectively. So, let's round up this whole balance sheet. When the budget surplus, assuming the 100% spending of money from the privatisation plan, which is 15.5 billion, is added to the expected surplus of privatisation revenues, which is 130.8 billion, and when loans are added in the previous period, before the privatisation of "Mobtel" is completed, already withdrawn from the World Bank and from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, amounting to 6.6 billion dinars, the total liquidity surplus in this year is 152.9 billion dinars. Of these 152.9 billion dinars, the money needed to pay off the general public debt, and the payment of the principal public debt is recorded below the line, so it does not go into current budget expenditures, that is, 34.7 billion dinars, as well as the money used to lend incentives for business development, these are housing loans, loans for underdeveloped areas and some other credit lines, which is 7.8 billion dinars this year. The total amount remaining in the budget account at the end of 2006 is 110.2 billion dinars, assuming all these planned expenditures are realised, including expenditure on the National Investment Programme. In other words, Serbia will certainly, even in the event that all that we have defined by the rebalance is spent, there will be an surplus of one billion and 300m euros at the end of the year, which is being transferred next year. It is something that will most certainly be transferred in the next financial year. As for the growth rate of income and expenditure, revenues are 7% higher than the original budget, while expenditure, without the National Investment Plan, 5.4% higher, and together with expenditure on the National Investment Plan's investments – 13% higher. However, we can say, given the real dynamics of spending money from the NIP, that the higher income growth we expect from the Plan will be compensated, in a way, for higher expenditure than the Plan. As for the use of excess money, I have already said, we plan to invest a billion and 675m euros by the end of next year in 2000 projects of the National Investment Plan. These projects were given in this book that we printed at the Ministry of Finance and they were proposed by ministries, local self-government, professional associations, and some by individuals. I'll talk more about it when I talk about the National Investment Plan. Besides, we plan to cut our external debt. The National Bank of Serbia has already paid half a billion dollars back to the IMF. You remember that between 2002 and 2005, Serbia withdrew from the IMF close to a billion dollars in loans to support the central bank's foreign reserves. The decision has now been made by the National Bank, and the government has supported it, to return all that money to the IMF early and the full payment will be completed by May next year. Half has already been returned, two more tranches will be returned by May, and then we will not owe any dollar to the IMF. The government has also given authority to the finance ministry to move forward with debt returns and other creditors. We're planning on returning about $560 million early to the World Bank these days, or weeks. So the negotiations are in the final phase. Also, we wrote to the Paris Club of Trustees, or the creditor of Serbia in that club, that we are interested in realising one contractual possibility of a 2001 contract with the Paris Club, to replace up to a billion dollars in our foreign debt for investments in three priority sectors -- the completion of Corridor 10 in southern Serbia, the development of the infrastructure of poor municipalities of Serbia and environmental projects. It's so-called. "debt and investment swap", the possibility of replacing the debt for investments, where the creditor country has a fundamental interest in write down one part of the debt, but with the obligation of Serbia to invest in an area agreed with the lender from its own budget. I'll give you an example. We will sign with the German government on Wednesday an agreement to replace the 25m-euro debt we have towards Germany for 5.5m euros in investment in an environmental project under the project to improve Serbia's heating system. So they write us 25 million, and we commit to investing 5.5 million in an environmental project. In this way we can write off up to a billion foreign debt, depending on concrete agreements with the Paris Club's creditors, and our biggest trustee is Germany, in second place is France, then the United States and Great Britain. Of these four countries, the three countries have already shown interest and entered into negotiations: Germany, France and the UK. Also, interest was shown by Austria. As for further opportunities to reduce public debt, it should be noted that Serbia has been paying so-called since 2001. Kosovo's debt, a debt that is wastes on Kosovo's and Metohija's territory, where, in fact, Serbia has been collecting no income since 1999, but UNOSEK does, an organisation that has authority over tax revenues on the largest part of Kosovo and Metohija at the moment. A billion and $70m in debt is waste in the area, with Serbia already paying interest in the name of the five years, $170m to serve the debt. Negotiations on the fate of the debt have started, and by all accounts, given that taxes are charged in a territory where Serbia has no authority, those who charge for it, which is UNOSEC, will take over and service this debt. In other words, in this way, Serbia will reduce its external debt by 2.5 billion to 3.5 billion dollars in a short period of several months. At this point, our public debt, without this debt, but only the public debt of the Serbian state, so the government, is 39.8 per cent of the total gross domestic product, after we received a write-off from the Paris Club, ending a three-year arrangement in February this year with the IMF, so that we can reduce this public debt to 31.2% in the next few months. Serbia thus becomes a country with a lower level of public debt in the social product compared to many of our neighbours, European Union countries. The Germans have over 60 per cent, the Greeks have over 100 per cent of the debt, and the Belgians, Croats about 70, 80 per cent. In other words, Serbia is then able to use the space in the budget that has almost been used to pay off debt to foreigners to invest in infrastructure and projects that increase employment. So, on the one hand, we're going to relax the budget, and on the other hand, instead we're going to have some totally different expenditures going for domestic purposes, and the total public spending remains unchanged. That's the strategic goal of the finance ministry in this area. Now I'd like to say something about macroeconomic movements based on which these projections have been made that you have in front of you in the Budget Rebalance Draft. As for economic growth, we have very solid movements this year. It is estimated that economic growth in Serbia will be between 7% and 8% by the end of the year, given that this budget was planned, that Serbia's gross domestic product will grow by 5% by the end of the year. These are movements beyond what we have planned and Serbia, I can now say openly, for the third year it has consecutively recorded high growth rates -- since 2004, 2005, 2006, since the government's been working. We have an average growth of 7-8% a year. In the first two years, the rate of growth of the gross domestic product was 7.9%, and now we will again achieve, the third year consecutively, the rate of growth of 7-8%. This way, by the end of this year, Serbia will have a gross domestic product per capita of $4,030, something over $4,000, which, of course, is not enough and cannot satisfy us. However, the fact is that this is significantly more than some previous periods and that we are slowly, but surely approaching the Croats. The Croats have between $6.6,000 per capita, while the Slovenes, unfortunately, are far ahead of us, with over $12,000 per capita. However, Serbia escapes Bulgaria and Romania in this way, regardless of the fact that they are entering the EU next year. Remember, when talking about the transition process, all economists said Serbia needs an annual growth of at least 5%. We now have three years in a row of seven and more percent. It is certain that we can catch up on the economic growth of Croatia, which has gone into transition significantly earlier and seems to me that we are able, as a nation, to restore our pride to our country and to have a better standard. Finally, after five years of transition, it seems to me that this is the first year in which, at least in the last few months, the first shifts are seen, it feels that what was unpopular in the first four years finally yield results and we are now entering a far easier phase of transition, where, essentially, there will be more positive results than the need for difficult measures, which by nature things were necessary at the beginning of the reforms themselves. As for the structure of economic growth, industrial production grew 6.5 per cent in the first seven months, of which the processing industry grew as much as 7.8 per cent. As for agricultural production, the wheat produced about two million tonnes, slightly less than last year, yet quite enough for domestic needs. Given last year's stockpiles, there will be little left for export. We have higher yields of fruits, corn, sunflowers, sugar beet and soybeans, so that by the end of the year agricultural production, a solid result will be achieved. In the first seven months we had growth in goods in trade, the trade sector grew 9.6% realistically. In tourism, total foreign income growth is as high as 21.6%. Traffic sector activity growth was 16%, and in construction, the value of work in the first seven months of this year, compared to the same period last year, increased by as much as 37%. In other words, we are in a positive trend and it is important to maintain this in one medium and longer term. As for foreign trade, in the first seven months exports increased 26.2% and imports increased 26.4%. This means that we still have a high rate of export growth, which is important for Serbia's long-term sustainable economic development. For the second year in a row, we have almost 25-30 per cent of the rate of export growth and in July, for the first time in many years, Serbian exports at a monthly level reached a $500m figure. So in the next period we can expect over half a billion dollars of exported goods a month. The biggest exporters at the moment are multinational companies, however, what is very important, the largest contribution of employment growth is made by small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, in the next period, economic policy must balance between the needs of multinational companies and the promotion of the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, because the experiences from Slovenia, Ireland, mentioned and mentioned, say that small and medium-sized enterprises give greater employment and that these results have been achieved in all countries in this sector. With regard to some more negative data, Serbia has in the first seven months of this year a current account deficit of $1 billion and 700 million. However, given the high inflow of foreign direct investment, the total balance of payments is positive 2.3 billion dollars. So, these inflows that Serbia has are covering the entire trade deficit and there is still 2.3 billion dollars in surplus in the balance of payments. This resulted in a growth of NBS foreign reserves to over $10 billion. Current foreign reserves are about $10.3 billion. That's more than she had an ex-SFRJ in 1990. However, we have more territory, more inhabitants, far more than all our neighbours and former Yugoslav republics. As for foreign direct investment, which I was talking about, in the first seven months, we had an inflow of nearly $1 billion of foreign direct investment, exactly 961 million, and that was before these major privatisations, one of the most transparent privatisations since the start of the transition, which is the privatisation of Moby 63 company, where an exceptional price has been achieved in front of TV cameras, in an auction that has not been seen in Serbia so far. A total of $450 billion is the revenue the state has made since the transaction. In addition, we had a German investment of $610m in the Hemofarm takeover, and for the privatisation of the Vojvodina and Pannonian banks, contracts were concluded -- for the Vojvodjanska Banka $485m, for the Panon Banka -- $150m. So the total of these investments, along with the small ones that I've already mentioned, are already reaching $3.6 billion at this point, which means that by the end of the year we can expect an even more favourable result. These are almost two-and-a-half times more foreign investment than last year, which was otherwise record. Serbia has for the first time achieved a significant inflow of foreign investment. When people ask if this is possible to continue in the future, I would say that I think it is, given that through the National Investment Plan we intend to develop infrastructure in those areas where it has not been developed, and that in the next period, the biggest investments will be in three sectors. The first is traffic, of course, is the area of major investment, then energy. I think there will be exceptional investments not only in the oil industry sector, but, above all, in the electricity sector. If we look at the medium and long term, Serbia must certainly invest more significantly in electricity production capacity because it can create such a comparative advantage that no other country in the region has. All the countries around us are importing electricity. We are the only country with a chance that, after five years, if we have adequate high investments, it will be a net exporter of electricity and, in some ways, dictate the political situation throughout the region, make it dependent on us other countries in terms of electricity supply. It's my opinion, and I'm sure the Ministry of Energy will support it, too, that in the coming period the state should consider subsidising those cultures that allow biogas production. It is an oily turnip and it seems to me that in the coming period more and more agricultural producers will be going to grow this industrial culture, given that renewable energy sources are something that is our future. As for prices, inflation, finally since June, we have positive trends in that field as well. In June, inflation was 0%, in July - 0.1%. You know that we have projected an inflation of 9.3% in the draft budget, and we remain in the process of maintaining projected inflation, especially after favourable trends in the world oil market. I am completely objective here, because this now helps us to achieve this goal, with the appropriate monetary policy measures and the solid dinar we have, as well as the rigorous fiscal policy. In fact, in the last month, we've had two low-priced oil derivatives. Here, I can now announce to you and to the citizens that we're already waiting on Friday for another big oil deal, which means that those who are preparing for the autumn work, I'm talking about farmers, are not supposed to be buying fuel these days. It's going to be far cheaper from the weekend, since it's going to cost over 3 dinars a liter of diesel fuel. We'll see how much there will be at the end of the cheap, but Thursday conditions for price correction are coming down. This means it is very possible that inflation is not only single-digit this year, but below 9%. It's something that already gives a serious basis for stability in the next period. Otherwise, the foreign exchange reserves I mentioned, worth over $10 billion, are currently 83% higher than last year's end. That allowed us to repay the entire IMF debt. We're sure that solid dinarbite will hold on to a long time. So what's been going on and what's surprised some in the last six months, I think it's going to be a far longer-term trend, because the foreign reserves are five times bigger than the dinar currency mass. So we have five times as many devisors as the total dinars in circulation, while the current foreign reserves are eight times higher than the average monthly imports. When we were moving into transition, we were able to cover only a month of imports with foreign exchange reserves, and now we can finance, assuming we're not exporting anything, eight months of imports. If no one was doing anything for eight months, eight months could be financed by imports, and some standard of stability is when your foreign reserves cover six months of imports. So Serbia has a really solid situation here. We were able to restore trust in the banking sector. The savings of banks are now close to three billion euros. This is indeed a respectable amount, given that a few years ago, when German stamps for the euro were changed, around four billion German marks were replaced in euro. So now it's three billion euros already in banks. I guess in the meantime, saving the population in straws has also increased due to foreign credits, as this is not a fixed category, but is constantly changing. However, with three billion euros in savings for citizens in banks, we can say that we have consolidated the banking system. That's 800m euros more than at the end of last year. As for the standard, it's certain we can't be satisfied, but the fact is that we're slowly but surely making progress. On the other hand, we have unemployment which is high and that, in my opinion, is the biggest problem of the Serbian economy. No one in Serbia should be satisfied until everyone who really wants a job is allowed to get it. In the first seven months of this year, wages actually rose by 9.6% compared to the same period last year. We have an interesting structure of that increase, because in the economy, wages have increased 11.8%, and in the off-price 5.4%. So much more in the economy than in the economy, which is a completely reverse situation than usual in the Serbian economy. When you see the structure of growth in non-economics, you will see that in public local businesses, thanks to the Budget Law adopted by this assembly, wages have increased only 0.3% real in the first seven months, and in the private sector, even 18.3%. So the private sector had a 18.3% salary growth, and local public enterprises had 0.3% due to restrictions. However, this restriction has contributed to the collapse of inflation and we are quite satisfied with the effects of this measure. As for pensions, real pensions increased by 7.9% over the first seven months compared to the same period last year. The second public debt war of around 4 billion dinars, or about 50m euros, was paid. This was paid in July of this year and the government will continue to serve this neatly until the end of 2008, when the debt that was made towards pensioners will be settled until the end. As far as the cost structure is concerned, the biggest increase in expenditure is actually these 33 billion dinars that are intended to implement the National Investment Plan projects. Also, there are higher salary expenses for six billion dinars and I can tell you what the structure of these expenditures is. The biggest increase this year in the public sector (I am not talking about the private sector) will have young people working in the state administration. They're employees of up to five years of internships. Their overall salary increase, which was otherwise very low, will be 62% this year. Afterwards, healthcare workers and social protection institutions will have 48 per cent higher salaries at the end of the year compared to the end of last year. Then, for higher university education and culture employees - 32 per cent is salary growth, in the MUP and in Vojsca - 26.7%. Employees in primary and secondary education will have a 22% salary growth, while in the state administration there is a minimum growth of 15%. The goal is to further increase salaries in primary and secondary education in the coming period, because they had lower salary growth this year, but the Ministry of Finance has stopped at the point of view that first we have to determine exactly who works in our schools, so that we can get those people who are really busy to pay more. We finally found that in the middle of this year. Today for the first time, it's a paradox, it's a fact, the Ministry of Finance knows exactly how many employees there are, in which status, in primary and secondary schools. And a few hundred million dinars a month are being saved on that basis, because in the previous period the schools themselves sought and determined how much to pay for them by the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education automatically passed it on to our vault and the vault paid for one, guture, sum, and apparently it went for some things that weren't just wages, but probably some other expenditures were covered. I think we need to keep our accounts clean. If necessary, and it is, to help schools and materially, we need to know what we invest in material maintenance and what pay is. When we know exactly what salary expenditures are, well, then we have the basis for their increase, so in the negotiations with the unions, which will follow now, in October, we will give priority to education in the next period, since health care has had a proper salary increase this year due to the rationalisation done in the previous period. In doing so, the biggest salary increase in the negotiations with the union was planned for September and November wages, therefore, for the salary paid in October, that is, in December. Then comes the biggest salary increases that will go from this budget. Of course, when we talk about wages, we will now equalise the salaries and bodies of the former state union with all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, so that the salaries will be balanced there. We also have 5.5 billion dinars of expenditure more for the pension fund than the plan, given that, although the payment of the contribution has increased, these 5.5 billion dinars are missing, and this is secured by this budget rebalance. Next is a regular pension payment, and now regular coordination, i.e. an increase in pensions in October. Social protection benefits have been increased by 5.6 billion dinars, mostly for the Transition Fund, given that privatisation has been accelerated and that there is an interest of workers working in businesses that have no prospect of leaving their jobs voluntarily. A billion and a half dinars will be provided more for the transition fund by the end of the year. Then, for fighting and disability protection -- a billion and 100 million more, for protecting families and children -- 900 million more dinars. We have also increased the payments for the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, as a social protection fee -- by 750 million dinars, in order to make up for the debt made in the previous period and by the end of the year for employees in Kosovo and Metohija more payments than usual monthly payments, because we want to fully repay and cancel all the differences that were made two years ago by the middle of next year. Also, a fixed-cost item of a billion and 700 million dinars has been increased. These are, above all, the costs of the Ministry of Defence, then in the judiciary - for judicial skills and other material costs. In defense, you know for a fact that there was a debt inherited from the previous period of 5 billion dinars. He, meanwhile, was really good at Mr. Stankovic's work, reduced to about 3 billion dinars. We want to cut it down even further, and we want to fully cancel it by the end of next year. Of course, we also planned additional costs for the land safety zone, worth 400 million dinars. We've got a budget cut. In fact, Serbia will save because of a solid dinar course of 6.6 billion dinars on behalf of interest payments and chiefs based on public debt, because at the beginning of the course it was higher than it is today. Today we have a stronger dinar than it was at the beginning of the year. This saved a total of 6.6 billion dinars to the republican budget and thus allowed it to be distributed for other purposes. Speaking of public debt, the public debt was 9.5 billion euros at the end of July, out of which the internal debt was 4 billion euros and the rest -- external debt, so 5.5 billion euros was external debt. When we talk about budget revenues, over the first eight months of this year, the revenues of 324 billion dinars have been made. That is 66.5% compared to total planned revenues in the total budget and that is a real 12% growth compared to the same period last year. The biggest revenues under the budget revenue are revenues derived from value added tax and 44% of all budget revenues are VAT revenues. Then there's the excise income. Non-tax revenues account for 14.5% of total income, while the income tax is 12.3% of total income. It is unusual for non-tax revenues, including 320m euros in revenues from the sale of another licence, to have increased during this period. This is non-tax revenue and therefore makes such a great contribution, and otherwise, it is not usual for non-tax revenues in one regular budget to have this kind of participation. Fortunately, this will probably not be the case only this year, as an international tender for the sale of a third mobile phone license has been announced, at the starting price of 320m euros. To see what the price is, I just want to point out, the comparisons are that the Croats sold the third licence for 20m euros without the Slovenians being able to get 10m euros for the third license. This is about an extremely high price, because the second license was sold at a huge price, 12 times the reference value, and it was really news published by all the international magazines, from the Financial Times to the Economist Magazine, I mean Londonese. In any case, Serbia will have at least 320m euros of revenue coming in next year by mid-November. So, the income will enter as the budget's income next year, because Serbia is in a slightly more comfortable position for the first time that it can allow itself not to ask for money right away, but to pay it in January, to get into the income next year, because there will probably be some other needs at that time. Now we have the next problem. We can't spend this money on current consumption, on personal consumption, we have to keep an eye on which balance, so we don't push the inflation that we've, I must admit, we've been very hard to freeze. Therefore, it is now our projection that both our and future government will have to invest this money mainly in capital projects, and that there is still a very cautious policy on personal expenditure and personal income policies in the public sector. We have a chance to lower the salary tax now. Thanks to you, MPs, the law was passed in June, which will reduce the wage taxes from January 1st, with the introduction of an untaxable censorship of 15,000 dinars, and a large number of companies already reported in September for the exemptions that we have made possible by the same law, where we have, for trainees and under 30 years, tax exemption and exemption from the payment of contributions. It's bigger than expected to be the number of companies that came forward, which means employers have started using these benefits and we expect it to be even more in the coming period. Finally, I'd like to say a few words about the National Investment Plan. The National Investment Plan is an idea that our government received in March of this year, when we were suggesting that in the privatisation process of Mobtel we could have income on which we didn't count at all, because, as you know, when we adopted the 2006 budget, nothing suggested that any government could get a single dinar from MOBTEL. It was November, followed by the withdrawal of the licence in late December by the Republic government, and then, after taking over the claims of two Austrian banks over the MOBTEL, which amounted to 90m euros and turned the situation overnight, it became the majority trustee of the MOBTEL. It was a crucial moment, it was January of this year, when the Post office became the majority trustee of the MOBTEL and dictated the conditions for Austrian investors who intended to buy the state package at a low cost. What he offered to the ministers who had negotiated, one year earlier, as an offer was a price of 200 to 250m euros for a complete state package, which we, of course, refused, for two reasons – firstly, we always insisted on the tender, the public tender, and the second, which was extremely low. Of course, the move proved justified, and today no one can really say anything bad about what happened in the privatisation process. For the first time, TV cameras followed the whole process, Norwegians were convincingly better, paid more, won victory, and Serbia earned a pure billion and 155m euros. It's actually the basis based on which the National Investment Plan was created. All the privatisation revenues I mentioned, plus the budget surplus, and we have set several investment goals by adopting the National Investment Plan. The first goal is to solve Serbia's biggest problem, which is to increase employment. Serbia must increase employment because in all other indicators we have managed to improve the situation as much as possible, or we are on the right track. However, we still have a lot of unemployed and that is priority number one. Secondly, we need to maintain this growth of 7% per year and for at least five years. Thirdly, it's very important, and it's one of the big problems of our economy, we have to have far more even regional development. Today, the largest private investment is located in large cities or in Vojvodina, which is good for large cities and Vojvodina, but not in all of Vojvodina because there are parts of the Vojvodina that are far from what should be. We need to find a way to make up for this private sector's backlog with additional public investment and to motivate the same private sector or some other private sector to invest in less developed areas. One way is to invest in infrastructure development, invest in conditions for the creation of new factories there and, of course, improve education and the general business climate in these areas. Therefore, in the coming period, the state must take the initiative to balance economic growth. It's also shown on this, now economic plan, which is ahead of you. I must say, as co-ordinator of this national economic plan by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the best projects came from the most developed municipalities. Less developed municipalities either had weak projects, or they didn't send them at all. This is what we talked about today at the Finance Committee, that is, the Ministry of Finance will be forming a project centre these weeks, in which appropriate engineers, lawyers, economists, so, people, above all, technical intelligence will be employed, but economists. They will, under government orders, go to less developed municipalities and they will build projects for them. Because if we wait for local self-government to produce appropriate projects, we won't be able to spend these funds properly. When I talk about project-making, I'm not talking about ideas, because certainly people in local self-government have ideas, but besides, they need to do documentation, and they need to do it in a form that can be realized. The most absurd is the case of Leskovci. Leskovac certainly belongs to less developed municipalities in Serbia. They didn't send any sewer projects, water lines and local roads. They've sent a project that isn't entirely appropriate for the moment. There are other municipalities that I don't want to name, but Leskovac really is a municipality that needs far more money than now, but it needs to be done with the appropriate projects. Local communities themselves have competed and funds are provided on the basis of these projects. For example, the freshest case is when we have provided funds for projects of water and sewerage in the local community of Anchika, or Bobište, and we believe that these projects will be realised. As for the funding of the National Investment Plan, the most important source is private income, budget surplus, donations and loans from international financial organisations, and in the future will be pre-accession European Union funds. The example is the Irish, who did not have large revenues from privatisation, and began their national investment plan with the European Union funds. Nearly 80% of the funds were received from the European Union, although they were members of the European Union and were in a different situation, while today they became the European Union's net finances. The Irish example shows that it is possible, if really complicated, to perform an economic miracle, because they had an unemployment rate of over 20 percent. They cut that rate in half by five years, and now they've brought it down to below four percent. Indeed, today in Ireland, not only does anyone who does not want to work, not people who are really looking for a job. There's a lot of our electricians going to work there, because they don't have enough, or they don't have builders and technicians. On the other hand, the question is what is important for this plan to happen. A national consensus is needed and it is necessary that what this government is starting to do continues the future, or future governments, because I really don't see who can in Serbia, if he loves Serbia, have anything against building roads, water lines and sewers in Serbia, where there are no phones and base infrastructure. At the same time, where there are appropriate conditions, it is necessary to open industrial zones, give potential resources to open new factories. These are the projects we now have. Therefore, it is also the duty of future governments to lead a sound budgetary policy and to continue to realise this surplus and, of course, to invest in those areas that will give the most impact. This is the first time we've had a project approach. The Treasury of Finance has records of all 2,000 projects. Every project is a story to myself, I can't mention them all here. I can say that this system will not be able to transfer money from one project to another in local self-government, but directly, based on the tender, enter into a contract with the performer and directly finance the performers, in certain situations. With regard to the changes we've had in the National Investment Plan, I can say we're holding the equipment tenders the following way. We'll use a model that was very successful in the Mobtel case. For example, when a tender is launched for the purchase of computer for schools, because we intend to buy 30,000 computers for primary and secondary schools and colleges in Serbia, or a tender for vehicles, or tenders for other equipment, for hospital beds, therefore, generally for equipment, will be done next. The criteria will be fundamentally established and all the companies that have been reported enter into that competition. Then a public auction is organised in front of TV cameras, where it comes from the lowest price offered for the same quality, and the price of a degree per degree - the one who gives the lowest price, wins. It'll also be in front of TV cameras. Increasing procurement will be done so that citizens have confidence in this process. In this way, since someone here asked what the structure of money spending control looked like, it was a question of what project advice was, it would be arranged. I'll explain to you what this structure looks like. So the government has formed the Co-ordination Body for Planning, Payment and Implementation of the National Investment Plan, composed of five ministers -- I am headed by the team, Minister Ilic, Minister Aleksandar Popovic, Minister Bubalo and Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic. It is a five-member coordination body holding a meeting once a week and considering appropriate project proposals. However, essential decisions are made by project advice. Six project councils have been formed - one for the area of low-building (roads, pipelines, etc.); then, for the area of high-building, for the purchase of equipment (total equipment, independent of which a project belongs to the ministry); projects for education and projects to encourage economic development. I think I've listed all six project tips. The members of the project councils are appointed by the competent ministry, by the President of the Republic, and the project councils are attended by people who are from professions and people who are not at all from the Government and who are involved in the work of these project councils. In addition, the resources spent under the National Investment Plan are subject and external audits, which will be the subject of consideration in the next Assembly. So the ultimate word in money spending control is external independent audit and the National Assembly. We, on the proposal of MP Baralic, will accept his amendment, will submit once quarterly reports to the National Assembly on the spending of money from the National Investment Plan. In this way you will have the opportunity to ask questions, give criticism and initiatives, as well as proposals to this government and future governments. The biggest challenge in all of this is how to achieve even regional development. We have already succeeded in this plan, which is for 2006 and 2007, that we have investments in undeveloped areas of an average of 130 euros per capita and by 117 euros per capita in developed areas. In this respect, 130 euros per capita will be invested in Vojvodina and Belgrade territory, in eastern Serbia -- up to 265 euros per capita, in southern Serbia -- 224 euros per capita, and in western Serbia -- 162 euros per capita. As for the district where this time, where the biggest investments are played by the game compared to what they normally had, these are two districts, so Toplički and Raski, they have the largest investments per capita compared to those investments that were without the National Investment Plan. Otherwise, out of privatisation revenues, only one in six total funds will be spent on local projects in Belgrade. Given that Belgrade is far larger by the number of inhabitants, this means that we have managed that five-sixths go outside Belgrade, and that is very important to know, because there have been some criticism that there will be a lot of money withdrawn from Belgrade. In some sectors, such as culture, someone mentioned, there will be more money for Belgrade, but these are national institutions, such as the National Library, the National Museum, the National Theatre, so institutions of national importance either in Belgrade, or in Novi Sad, and some of them in Nis, or Kragujevac. They're mostly in Belgrade, and they're national projects, not local projects. Of course, when the 2008 plan is worked, it will start from what was planned for 2006 and 2007 and those less developed municipalities will be given a higher price for investments in 2008. We want, therefore, from 2006 to 2008, to really distribute in favour of less developed, or even more than we have now according to this plan, although, retailes, every municipality here gets investments that are at least worth its regular budget, and many are getting much more. However, it is one thing to determine money, and another thing we have to do, along with these local self-governments, and projects that will allow that money to be spent in the Shop, Bujanovac, Bosilegrad, in all municipalities where there is no knowledge of project creation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this budget rebalance represents at least a step forward in budget planning. The National Investment Plan is certainly something that is completely new and I am convinced, regardless of who will be in the next governments, that this national investment plan will outlive many of us who have made this plan. Thank you and I hope that you will all support budget rebalances, including these National Investment Plan projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29233	Thank you, Mr. Dinkich. All who thought, or who bet that the exposure would last more than an hour, could pay the bet now, lost because the exposure lasted 59 minutes and 41 seconds. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29234	I believe that when the minister speaks to the Assembly, he has to take care of dignity and he has to tell the truth and only the truth, even though we're not in court. Today is not the first time in the reasoning of budget rebalancing mentions the municipality where I am a councilman and to make false statements, as well as that he has had enough of Leskovci and Leskovčana, and I come from that region. You, Mrs Plassic, could have whispered to him earlier, not now, it's not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29235	Excuse me, please, allow the MP to address...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29236	No, please, let the G17 plus what he's going to bring out here, because I think it's incorrect to say publicly -- no projects. It's just not true, Minister. I'm working under the circumstances in the company you mentioned. If you don't put up with the president of the municipality, you can't have the whole Leskovac looking at it, or judging the whole city. We are doing major industrial works there, and we are the only ones financing it, because we received a million euros from the European Agency for Reconstruction. Your fellow minister, unfortunately from the DSS, whom we are heartily supporting, refused to sign the contract, because he doesn't like the president of the municipality, so he punishes all the citizens of Leskovec, punishes the company where I work, and now we have to replace that million. You can respect or disrespect something, but as far as the president of the municipality is concerned, you have to respect it, because it was chosen by the people. The congregation was chosen by the people. You can't choose, at least you. You're going to local elections now, so fight it, but I don't know who's running for office, whether you or the one you support from the "yellows", Dr. Markovic, or Velja is running for Abras, because you're constantly out there on TV and constantly mudring local government. If the president of the municipality has misused the budget, you could have done well, you have the law, and the cake and the knife are in your hands, to judge that man. Why do you let us fight there? The projects exist and we will realize them whether your money or your money, and you're putting me in a position to say, or to say -- here, Žika doesn't want the money, on the contrary, a little bit is given to Leskovec. And this government, and the previous government, and when I was, you took a lot more for Belgrade than you put down, but you have no right to say there are no projects when there are. They're there at the Agency we got millions of euros, and you don't give them because you're the boss of this register. You can't say, those are your words, I've watched you on TV - I'm not going to give you money, because it's purposeless, but I'm going to give it directly to the contractor. With what right, where is your tender, because you were just talking about tenders, where are your performers, who are your performers, where you'll be more concerned about your client?- I'm sorry. It's not correct and it's not fair. So, we have projects, much more than you've been delivered to, but simply, you and Mr. Vela are going exclusively into political propaganda with the current budget rebalance and the funds that have been allocated from us by taxpayers. I'm the one who said it publicly on TV. I've called on Leskovcians not to pay taxes to this state while you're a minister, because this country doesn't deserve such a minister, and because when you need to come to this assembly, you need to know the real truth. Those of you who whisper here, let them say it down there, so whether or not we have projects. Reliably and responsibly, let's go to the end, if you want to go to court, that we have projects for that sewer. However, since you are thus supporting local self-government, i.e. You and Will decide, go ahead, you don't need local self-government, you introduce a forced administration. This has threatened Leskovac for two years, but you know, with all the pressures, thanks to you and Veli, Goran Cvetanovic will be the president of the Assembly, be sure of that, and one of the leading parties will be the SPS, no matter how much you tear it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29237	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Natasa Jovanovic first appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29238	The rule is the same for everyone, regardless of whether it is Leskovec, Belgrade, Bosilegrad. The projects are done by making a tender, selecting a performer, closing a contract, and then paying directly at the expense of the contractors from the republican vault, because it is a project, not strengthening the local budget, but strengthening the infrastructure of local self-government. If it hadn't been for, especially in Leskovac, bad experiences in the past, maybe we'd have done something different. In Leskovec, non-intentional funds have already been spent, which is why our budget inspection has found and therefore a criminal complaint has been filed against the current president of the municipality, because the money that was intended for one thing was used for another, and only a small part of what was intended for it. That's why, all Serbian citizens, wherever you go, don't want to or don't ask if there's money for their sewers, they're asking if we're going to get it. The only way they'll get it is if they get it done. Why pay the municipality at all and why have an intermediary, when it should be paid directly at the expense of the performer. He has an obligation to end it within a certain time limit, and if he doesn't finish, he pays the penalty to the state and that saves the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29239	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29240	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you know that our Serbian radicals are always the most in the hall, that we prepare for each session, for every item of the agenda, we submit amendments. I refer to Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, the rights and obligations of the Messengers of the people. We always have information from the right place and at the right moment, Mr. Dinkic. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who is currently in the local community of Vinart in Leskovec, told me that, at the very least, you are making it up. You're making it up because all the locals from the Vinart community were waiting for him. It is the only local community that has received a project from the National Investment Plan, i.e. it has applied and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has responded positively to a project of 5 million dinars. That's what I'm telling you because it's a local community in which they're completely in power, i.e. The entire Council of the Meat Community is from the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party. Mr. Vukic also found that you invented when you said that the local community and the citizens of Leskovec did not tolerate projects in Brestovac – at 6 o'clock, and at 7 o'clock - today in Pečevci. As for all other projects related to the Leskovac municipality, I already know in advance and I am pleased to announce to the general public and to the citizens of Leskovac that this water supply system, at least the one Mr. Stefanovic spoke of, will be completed by the victory of Mr. Goran Cvetanovic in the upcoming election for the president of Leskovac municipality. It would be a pleasure for the project, which has invested 90m euros so far, to finally hand over as far as the citizens' hands are concerned. As for the project, it is true that these funds were received from an international loan that the municipality had previously applied for, but the municipality itself, on Mr Goran Cvetanovic's initiative. Mr. Dinkic is out. Every time we catch him in, not to tell a lie, but in the truth, he runs off to some door. But good. In any case, a project for which the municipality has allocated 4m euros, with exceptional conditions for users, is directly credited to Dr Goran Cvetanovic himself, as president of the Leskovac Municipality. We have also succeeded without the National Investment Plan, which apparently divides projects along the political line and are, in fact, political projects. Here, right now, Minister Dinkic has been exposed to Leskovac about another major project important for Serbia's health care, for science at all, and it concerns the centre to be run by our Serbian genius, Dr Miodrag Stojkovic, a world-renowned geneticist. He is open to Serbian radicals and Dr Cvetanovic is talking to him about it. Anything to keep Dinkic in line, but he will not be in power for much longer, and he will be minister, not to have any single dinar to Leskovac municipality, it will be successfully developed by Radical and Goran Cvetanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29241	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Please continue the discussion now. I ask if representatives, or authorized representatives of parliamentary clubs, want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Dacic. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Before you came forward, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29242	Mr. President, MPs, we have before us a draft budget rebalance, and it is caused by huge reasons, above all, unexpectedly high revenues from privatisation. It's something that's very good, and I think we have sweet pain, and that's that extra, which takes brains and creativity, which is what we might be better placed for the better life of our fellow citizens. However, I will remind you that during this year some other things have happened which, of course, trigger budget rebalancing. We have a disintegration of the state union between Serbia and Montenegro and that, of course, requires the need for many budgets to be rebalanced, in order to ensure the functioning and functioning of those bodies that were at the level of the common state, and move into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. Then, we are expected to also apply new legal rules, which certainly require the need for budget funds. I will remind you that in its term of office, to this day, more than 200 laws and regulations have been passed, that institutions that are overly needed to ensure that the state works in accordance with these new laws and regulations. This requires the need to reroute certain funds. What is very important is, precisely, one comment that can be heard from serious people, which is that the construction of institutions has just provided an increase in income from foreign investment and privatisation. Let me remind you that, for example, the best, the best quality and most expensive privatisation at the time of the previous government was the sale of the tobacco industry. Remember, it was a 500m-euro figure. We now have a situation in Serbia that a company, which was almost stolen by a former-era powermaker, sold for nearly a billion and 300,80 hundred euros. Of course, a huge part of the money will be invested in new jobs and creating conditions for new jobs to be opened, as well as in other our needs under the National Investment Plan. I want to say that through social and political stability is needed to realise those resources that Serbia has, and there is a contribution and the work of the Republic government. This is also the contribution of this House. I think it is simply untasteful that at this point, some petty party needs related to campaigns in several municipalities in Serbia, we are violating the excessive unity and agreement on how to distribute this money, which is not money, of course, the Republic Government, but the money of all Serbian citizens, in order to distribute it. It's one of the basic messages and this national investment plan. I will remind some of the good guidelines of the investment plan itself, which is an attempt for Serbia, which has an unequal development, to kind of iron it and balance it. It is one incentive for those dead parts of Serbia to be launched and to try to preserve the population and all that is needed for Serbia to be in all its places in the right way, in order to enable its residents to live their lives. I think it requires further efforts, and that is the need for smaller municipalities, which are cougar with staff, to project what they need through the republican institutions. Experience has shown that many municipalities have failed to do so. I have to say that my experience with Braničevsky County territory, which in this investment plan, received about 16m euros within the framework of a folk project, is the next. Some municipalities have competed with real projects and will have the opportunity to realise them. Unfortunately, the largest, central municipality - Fireman, had no ear for the National Investment Plan and it should be the subject of our discussions at the site. I must say, it is unfortunate that the central municipality of Braničevsky County did not have the strength to compete properly. Please don't throw it away, I won't throw it to you anyway. Of course everyone comes from their own place and gets the most of it down by what's going on there, that's the only reason. I'm not transferring anything to Mr. Arsic, I think he's one of the most important people in the Povorec municipality, but it's teamwork and it's a shame that a much wider circle of people wasn't involved in the design of projects. I don't think that people are involved in political parties, but in professions and what they can do in the right way. I think it's supposed to be a principle when we control the National Investment Plan the next day. I think it is the right place for Parliament and it is a good amendment for Mr Baralic to make it possible. What characterizes itself is the proposal for budget rebalancing, which is the achievement of high economic growth based on export growth and a high inflow of foreign direct investment. The reason it's so I've already mentioned it. What is also an important moment in the very proposal for budget rebalancing is an attempt to maintain macroeconomic stability. I think this year the Republic government did it. I will also remind viewers, and present MPs, and those watching TV broadcasts, that the issues we heard here in the newsroom last year, at this time or in November, were -- how you appreciate the evaluations of economists and how the Serbian economy will function when, after the New Year, immediately in January, the euro is worth around 115 dinars. It was a catastrophic assessment of economists, which was an assessment that could be heard in a parasitic organisation called the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I'll also remind you of the writings of some economists who appear to be top experts. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for us, we have a strong and stable dinar and I think that the contribution of the National Bank, the Republic Government and the Ministry of Finance was well directed and preserved stability. Stability is over-needed. I think the critics of a strong dinar are very wrong. I think we should cut costs and make a competitive price for exports, and by no means devaluation or any artificial inflation, try to stimulate exporters. Of course, on the other hand, it may fit the import lobby, but I think there's a state that should strictly control their margins and the way they pay the state of taxes. What should also be mentioned is the smooth work of state authorities whose powers have been transferred from former SCG institutions to the Republic of Serbia, as well as the creation of conditions for the smooth work of the bodies formed to bring our legal order into line with EU rules. I will remind you that during this year we have brought and built bodies of a state-level audit institution, a labour inspectorate, a ministry, then an anti-doping agency, precisely to prevent money laundering, etc. So it's included in the budget rebalance. (President: Excuse me, will you use the other ten minutes? Here you go. Yes. What we can see in the National Investment Plan is an attempt to stimulate undeveloped areas, to develop. However, I think the criticism that selective funds are being placed, that they are being approved politically, when we look at large figures, without foundation. In fact, when we look at the structure of the national plan itself, we will see that more than two-thirds of the plans relate to the development of traffic, health care, the promotion of entrepreneurship and employment, economic development and housing. For everything else, we can say that there is a moment that we can argue about for individual projects. It's really a big dilemma whether one school needs repairing the roof, another painting, or new windows, or whether it needs to be done in one place or another. However, health is needed by all citizens of Serbia. Also, the roads are needed by everyone. I think most of the money, which has just been allocated to these investments, rightly covers what's called the National Investment Plan. The condition for economic progress is to create new jobs and it is a real shame, again to mention my municipality, which such municipalities, with huge opportunities and with real potential, did not compete with projects of industrial zones, projects related to gasification. No gas, no cheap production, no industrially arranged zones, no new jobs. I would also invite those who watch our discussions to think that way. I hope that this plan will be confirmed in the coming months and next year and that most MPs will support budget rebalancing. Of course, he's on one side being extorted. On the other hand, based on the success of the current year, based on one financial stability and unexpectedly large revenues, there is a development chance and therefore the DSS will vote for rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29243	Thank you, Mr. Matice. First, the People's Messenger Ivica Dacic, then the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, who answered. Here you go, Mr. Dacic. Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic we are talking about today, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia cannot be separated from the topic of overall political and social relations in Serbia, in the time and place in which Serbia is present. It cannot be separated from the perceived and expected difficulties Serbia will have in the coming period, related to trying to impose a final solution on Kosovo and Metohija status, or to trying to impose KIM independence by international factors. With all that in mind, the SPS looks at this proposal from the point of view of the need to create all the preconditions for Serbia to highlight and remind the whole world and take an active position so that the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, once again tell the whole world that Kosovo and Metohija are considered an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we have an understanding of the proposed legal proposal. On the other hand, we have no understanding of the position G17, which today leaves the dilemma whether Serbia has or does not have political stability in this difficult time and in the difficult period after October 5th. I must say that the Socialist Party of Serbia has also discussed the subject today with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, with representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia. We do not want and will not vote for this budget rebalancing if he will serve only the G17s plus parties to represent himself in public as a party that brings economic good news to the citizens of Serbia, and the rest of the periods until the next elections are used to oppositionly attack the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to perform state functions from the point of view of the positions they have. I hope and expect that the new conditions in which Serbia lives today, the active position Serbia today has in negotiations and attempts by all parties to uniquely reach a new constitution, not as the ideal highest legislative proposal, not as perhaps the only way to fight for Kosovo and Metohija, will show one active way to the whole world that Serbia and Serbs have a unique view of it. I hope that this new social and political reality will affect this party that makes the Serbian government think carefully about its October 1st moves. The arrest of Ratko Mladic to the European Union cannot be more important than Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia's political stability. If someone is going to tear down the government, it is not controversial, but no one has the right to endanger Serbia's political stability, especially when they have an understanding of other opposition political parties, such as the SRS and DS. Since we have been here all day in the Assembly, today the SRS, DS and the SPS have agreed with the DSS on the basic settings and principles of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For us, it was unacceptable, as for the SRS, I suppose, for other parties, above all for the DSS, that, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, perhaps, the issue of some broader and larger, or essential autonomy for Vojvodina, where conditions would be created for us to have a problem with Vojvodina in the coming period. So, regardless of the gravity and importance of the referendum and the new constitution, we are not prepared to sacrifice the Vojvodina for it. As far as we could see from these talks, there is political readiness and agreement that all political parties in Serbia are taking another step towards Serbia's unique welcome to what will await us in November. If someone doesn't know what will be waiting for us, we will have a new Rambui waiting for us, an attempt by Ahtisaari to impose or a new Security Council resolution, defining KIM status as an independent state, or a new neutral resolution based on which many countries in the world will bilaterally recognise KIM as an independent state, or there will be a third scenario -- that without any resolution, as Serbia rejects that solution, many countries in the world have chosen to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. In such conditions, Serbia must welcome the November 1, 2, 3, 5, 15, a unique and politically stable one. There's no theme that's more important to us right now than this one. If anyone thinks the SPS is in love with this government, they're very wrong. And we would like some who are in this government not to be in that government, but at this point I am sure that, if we want good to this country, the most important thing is that, instead of some side-by-side political issues, we see what is essential, which is that if we don't have a country, if we don't have a country, then we don't have a party, we don't have our own, we don't have any other political party. And that is why I appeal to all the political parties that make up the government of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS, of course, has shown its constructiveness, but everything has its limits. We will not allow anyone to abuse the current political situation by his political actions while, on the other hand, the SPS, on behalf of national and state interests, sometimes supports both votes and for something he may never, in other conditions, vote for. We will also support this draft budget this time because of the need for Serbia to welcome the referendum as well. Otherwise, to be clear, it's nothing new. You spoke here earlier, Mr. Matice, for example. on the National Investment Plan, on the sale of state-owned enterprises. I would like to remind you that 49% of Telecom has been sold for a billion and a half marks. It is approximately the same as the euro today – 49%. These funds were used through the Development Fund. Today we appeal that the funds obtained from the sale of "Mobtel" are not used for painting and painting, but for creating a new value. National investment plan, public works, major projects, are not inventions of both DS and G17 plus, since the Ministry of Finance printed this brochure, nor is it the invention of the SPS or Milutin Mrkonjic, it is an invention that exists more than a hundred years in all world economies. But we're not going to let this period, behind all these big stories, work on narrow-minded interests. The SPS won't be part of that political prank. We can vote in favour of budget rebalancing if there will be political stability in Serbia, but we will not vote for budget rebalance today, or for the Constitution tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow the G17 plus exits the government. To be in the government, to use all the places, to use all the funding you have, to use all the means to get political points, and to play the opposition, that luxury to you, I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, we won't allow it. So I hope it doesn't come to that. There is still time, the SPS will closely monitor the reactions of all political parties. We are ready to agree on all political parties, to adopt a new constitution, on behalf of Serbia, the Serbian people, all citizens of Serbia, but we are not ready to be a protesting monnet at this time, so that one political party can accomplish something that we do not want to do. We do not support the reasons why you want to leave the government, which is because Ratko Mladic is not arrested. That's why we'll never bring down the government. Maybe we could take her down in the opposite case, and take her down in the opposite case. So, in any case, if you leave the Assembly and the Government at the moment, in the moments when Serbia fights its crucial battle for Kosovo and Metohija, believe me, you will never return to it, because Serbia will not forgive you. As far as we are concerned, we will once again be a constructive political factor, we will do everything possible to make Serbia, the Serbian people, all political parties unique, regardless of whether we like something in this constitution and only for that reason could we support this budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29245	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Do you agree that, according to Article 85, we take a 10-minute break, and then Mr. Arsic speaks? Pause until 18 hours and five minutes. The first, after a break, will be given the word by the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Veroljub Arsic. [[After break – 18 hours and 20 minutes]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. I thank you for your patience with Mr. Arsic, the authorised representative of the SRS. You have a word, Mr. Arsic, and then, if he doesn't answer, as has not been reported so far by any president or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, we will move on to the debate according to the list of registered speakers. The first will have the word of the MP, Milorad Belic, and Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd have to tell you and the public first that some of the things that have been said for this speaker are not true. The municipality of Pogorec handed over some national investment plan or programme to the competent ministries of certain projects before the creation of a national investment plan or programme. They weren't accepted until today, and now I see they're in this national investment plan. The reason why we didn't hand over more projects is because, on the one hand, the project itself cost local self-government and we can't really spend money on something that might not happen in the near future. On the other hand, we have bad experience with the government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically, with the Ministry of Capital Investment. Gradište municipality competed, certain projects were accepted by the ministry as early as 2005. On the basis of the ministry's decisions, the Building Directorate of Veliko Gradišče announced public procurement, 50% of the local self-government, 50% of the ministry, carried out the works, and the ministry did not transfer the funds to local self-government, or the Directorate, to settle its obligations until today. To make things worse, the manager at the time and now the deputy president of the municipality in Veli Gradište, Sulovic, runs around the municipality of Veli Gradište and tells how he exclusively invests the Ministry of Capital Investments with Velja Ilic and NS. For the sake of truth, I have no objection and that the citizens of the City Hall are in charge of improving their infrastructure, but at least they should know that they themselves are in charge, that local self-government has entrusted them, that these works have been paid by the Ministry of Capital Investments. Otherwise, according to this national investment programme, Pogorec received about 100 million dinars. As far as the budget rebalancing itself and even these amendments and additions to the laws that were ahead of this agenda point are concerned, it is a single exclusive and clean marketing party G17 plus and individual parties from this government. That's one reason. Another reason is that this budget rebalance should be used in a specific way to wash the funds, i.e. investments already invested in municipalities when they were not in any plan and programme, nor were the funds approved, i.e. In the course of election campaigns. These are the reasons why this agenda is now being discussed and why this budget rebalance looks like what this government has proposed. I would like this budget rebalancing, in a certain way, not to be adopted, because then individual ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia will have to respond to why they purposelessly spent the funds, headed by Velja Ilic, and then by turn, one after the other. To see that this is the most common marketing, I will only read a few items from this national investment plan, because citizens are under the impression that when someone says the National Investment Plan, it is about certain investments that will not only improve the environment in which they live, but also that it will affect the number of jobs, the increase in their salaries, etc. I'll read, say, that in the National Investment Plan for the MUP, about 574 million dinars were allocated. I don't mind if this is all done the way it is, but it can't possibly be some kind of national investment plan, it's just a simple plan and a programme of MUPs, a job that the same ministry does today without this kind of plan. The Directorate of Border Police – procurement and installation of telecommunications system equipment, for the purpose of security of cell connections, which is foreseen for 1,445,000. For the Border Police Administration – taking over jobs from the military, etc. - 70,125,000. For the Fire and Rescue Protection Authority – improving the operational fact of fire rescue units, 170,000,000 are foreseen. It is the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of National Investment Plan are you talking about? The supply of equipment?- I'm sorry. When you say the National Investment Plan, I guess you wanted the citizens to think you were going to open up factories, new jobs. It's not there. Since you've been in power, the factories have been closing down. Since you've been in power, the number of unemployed has increased. Or, for example, the National Investment Plan says – reconstruction and adaptation of the business premises of the Tax Administration of the Regional Centre of Novi Sad, and lists the branches - Ada, Apatin, Baka Palanka, Baka Topola, Vrbas, Vršac, Froglj, Indjija, Irig, Kikinda etc. The adaptation, the creation of the tax administration's premises, you call it the National Investment Plan?- I'm sorry. Reconstruction, adaptation of the business premises of the Tax Administration of the Regional Centre Nis, Arangelovac, Alexandrovac, Bor, Varvarin, Vlasotince, Vranje, Zaječar, Ivanjica, Knjižvac, Kragujevac, Leskovac, Merošina, Negotin, Nova Varoš, Pirot, Prijepolje, Prokuplje, Razanj, etc., do not list. To you is the National Investment Plan for the creation and adaptation of the Tax Administration. Speaking of which, let's see how it's been done so far, gentlemen, since you've been in power. In Belgrade, there was an adaptation of a business space belonging to the tax administration. So, public procurement has been announced, according to this procurement, a certain contractor, who offered the price he offered, the quality of the services he offered, hired a person to monitor the performance of these works. From the moment the person tried, I will not deliberately mention the name and last name, to carry out proper supervision, not to deviate from the project, from the quality of the materials described in the offer itself, not only did it lose control of that tax administration, but later, in its further work, it was chicanated, right from the tax administration. She was thrown out of the room, she had constant control, etc. That's how you do public procurement. It seems to me that Mr. Minister, when it comes to public procurement, here he wants to advertise the show, on this TV B92, "Great Brother," so now we're all going to follow someone making public procurement. Basically, and if there is this transparency, you can't see behind it, which is: how will these works be done, what will be the supervision and who will still earn, except for the performer himself, and all to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to tax administrations, I can't help but wonder, because here you can't see whether any funds will be invested in the tax administration of the Sabari municipality. I have to mention this, especially because I don't see that the National Investment Plan enrolls the write-off of the debt of the municipality to certain tax bonds of the Municipality of Žabari. The condition for the write-off is to be candidates in the local elections on October 1st in front of the G17 Plus party. This was personally promised to them by the chairman of the municipal board of the same party, who is also the tax inspector in the Frogari, a certain Mr. Boban Milosevic, president of the Sabari Municipal Committee. Now, watch this, there's never been a porter in that tax administration, ever. Since he became the chairman of the Municipal Committee, and since he's been employed by the IRS, we've also got a porter in the Frogs, and the porter is no one but his own father. That's how you do it, gentlemen, from G17 plus! By the way, his aunt is the director of his home health, and he runs first on the G17 Plus list. Gentlemen, do you really want to make a family business out of the state?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29248	You'll use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29249	Yeah. Not only did you go to a tax write-off campaign, but now the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party, just today, in the pre-election campaign, has been inspected, right into his shop. By a miracle some, just his shop to control, and the day before, members of the interior ministry brought in activists and candidates from the Serbian Radical Party for an informative conversation, kept them at the police station for a few hours, no one knows why. Ladies and gentlemen of the G17 plus, there was no such thing during the South. I listened here to Minister Dinkic and wondered if I really lived in Serbia, in this country, or somewhere in a paradise, financial, business, where everything was fantastic and where honey and milk flow. We were told by the minister that we are satisfied with the growth of exports. I agree. It is satisfied with the growth of exports, but this growth in exports has not yet exceeded the growth of imports. So our debt increases and percent, year after year. What is exported - multinational companies. There's a big story here and a big thank you to Minister Dinkic about how we made a stable dinar and how we made little inflation. Why doesn't he say the reasons for a stable dinar and a little inflation? Surely it's not his monetary policy. In a certain way, it can be attributed to the success of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a fall in the purchasing power of citizens. Simply, our domestic economy is based on imports. We have nothing left to place on the domestic market, in the sense that there's no one left to buy. Then there's the fall of foreign currency. Prices, of course, don't fall. Who does that suit? Most import lobby. Now there will be fewer duties on imports of goods, etc., and the reason for the fall of purchasing power is that, Malten, in the country, nothing works anymore. It works, something small in the oil industry, something small in the electricity industry, and that's all. Our country lives literally on foreign exchanges brought by our workers who are employed abroad, not because of some successful monetary policy, etc., and possibly from some of the exchange operations performed by the National Bank. There was so much praise about the surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and you don't say where that surplus came from. Where does this suddenly come from, to the same amount of goods produced and sold, a surplus of tax revenues? Excess tax revenues appear because, by introducing value added tax, you have introduced taxes on both meat and milk, and on bread, and on flour, and on children's diapers. You've put taxes on every living thing. Where does that extra money go? Excess money is not placed in the economy, because, apparently, if it is placed in the economy, God forbid, inflation will occur. Excess money is placed as guarantees and counterguarantees for further government debt and there is no need to brag about it. On the one hand, you're talking about how you manage to reduce the old debt, and on the other hand, you're making multiple new and bigger debts. Well, is that a success? Any government to come, she doesn't have a problem in borrowing the state, showing up as a success, of course. It seems to me that some members of the government, as well as some close to that government, are going to make a lot of money on that borrowing. When they make money, when they're provided, here, now, for the citizens of the state, so let them decide what to do with our old debts. Let's get back to that famous National Investment Plan. I already said in one discussion that Serbian citizens do not need to know how the state works and how budgets are spent. But here, for their sake, budget users deliver plans and programmes to or to the competent ministries or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's direct or indirect budget users, it absolutely has nothing to do with it. Based on these plans and programmes, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is proposed, i.e. those plans and programmes for which funds are provided in the budget. That's how it's worked so far. That's how the state worked. It wasn't called a national investment plan. Imagine, the National Investment Plan reads "the remont of five MiG-29 fighter planes". It's further maintenance, investment or liquid, but it's maintenance. One transport plane and two or three helicopters, that's your investment plan. Or, for the local roads, that's what it is. It means that local roads are placed in certain municipalities in the National Investment Plan. Well, every local self-government, more or less, has problems maintaining local roads and is addressing the state for help with the construction and reconstruction of these local roads. And so far, it's worked that way, but it wasn't called the National Investment Plan. Now you have admitted to your large coalition partners, say in the same municipality of Žabari, in the budget rebalancing, firstly, allegedly, that 12 tons of asphalted street patching, Karajordjeva, has been spent, and the street has never been paved. Well, let's just hope you wrote the asphalting, so it didn't go away. You haven't been able to do that in a rebalancing process, you've spent money on a street that's not paved. This is what it looks like when the election campaign Velje Ilic, Mladjan Dinkic and others are caught. Some kind of national investment plan or programme is being invented, and the only goal is to promote the political parties that are in power. Allegedly, since 2006, plans have been made that will be implemented by 2011. You know what, I think that once in 1945, the Serbian people accepted this "first five-year-old" as a lie and don't sell twice the same thing to the citizens of Serbia. These younger ones may not know about it, but, thank God, there are still a lot of citizens who remember what this "First Five-year-old" was like. It was especially good on the naked island, where these same citizens of Serbia put your predecessors only if they rebelled. And what happens in the Sabari municipality testifies to what kind of Democrats you are and that you are nothing better than the one-party system of Joseph Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29250	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No) I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted all parliamentary groups except the Democratic Party. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic, and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29251	Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly natural and understandable that the opposition and position look at the draft budget rebalances with different eyes. However, it is difficult to take the impression, after what we have heard from the author, the finance minister, but much more from what we have read in the extensive material we have received, that it is not really about the encouraging shifts in the previous two years, which is, of course, the greatest merit of government as a team, but also of certain ministries. Our people said a long time ago that the worst friend was a big debt or the smallest debt. If we can talk today about our children, or our grandchildren, still not living in overindebted Serbia, then it is certainly encouraging. If today we can say that debt to the IMF and to all other creditors is significantly reduced, it is also encouraging. If we say that economic growth is recorded and inflation is contained, and that sounds encouraging. Should we remind ourselves of the period we lived in, at least we older ones remembered it well, no matter what profession we did. It was also how the hard and the right science to survive from one day to the next, not from the moon to the moon. This accomplished surplus, which is significant, certainly infuses encouragement. As we heard from the minister, I must really say that we in New Serbia absolutely agree, regardless of which government will be after this or in some near future, that there is really no reason to give up the National Investment Plan. I agree it's no one's invention, not the Ministry of Finance, not this government. We know that the major economic crisis in America from 1929 to 1933, thanks to the new trade, has been overcome, that the government, above all, through public works, through encouraging measures, of course to the domestic producer, through the protection customs, the economists know very well, managed to contain that enormous crisis, the great global crisis and that the American economy has recovered. Of course, it's in the domain of theory. There's a simple question -- if it was in textbooks, economic manuals, why hasn't it been done before? Other assumptions had to be made so we could talk about the surplus, as we talked about last year at this time, adopting the 2006 budget. And here we are now, in a pleasant atmosphere, we can talk about what awaits us in 2007. Of course, the big problem is, and that's where we all agree, unemployment and a low standard of living. I'm afraid there's a big gap between the 1,000 rich people we saw in the media yesterday, i.e. A multi-billion-dollar, or big rich people in Serbia, and the largest layer of the population, and that is a problem for both this and the future government. However, as you know, the National Investment Plan has, above all, been adopted to reduce the distance or range between certain regions and to launch practically all economic and social areas, and most of all in infrastructure, then in agriculture and education, where I come from and know what bread is, what wages were in the previous period and how justified is the dissatisfaction of people who are doing an extremely responsible job, and highly underestimated about personal incomes or wages. It is now a great responsibility on local self-government that, on a timely basis, through the National Investment Plan, through the large funds that are planned, through programmes and projects, through the financial and personnel structure they have, they succeed in withdrawing those funds. Of course, it will have government support, as we heard in the Finance Committee, through educational gatherings, through advice on how to practically do this job in the interests of both government and local self-government, but, above all, citizens. I have to say something about the funds defined for the Kolubar County Directorate, to remove the consequences of the earthquake, and you know that every year it's a painful topic in this home, first of all, because I've been President of the 2004 Council of Directorate, by the government's decision, and then because I have a great responsibility to all the citizens who have knocked on the door of the room in Valjevo, as a national MP, who have any problem. Believe me, most citizens have come because they haven't had a roof over their heads yet. We have legitimate objections in the sense that from 1998 to today it had to be at least 20 to 30% better done. Unfortunately, since 2004, I have been the chairman of this council and I can say that the dynamics of the funds paid to the Director's account, in favour of the 1999-2003 period, were about 4.4 billion dinars, so that since 2004, after the budget rebalance, which followed in September, the Directorate would remain withheld for some 300 million. By adopting the amendments I have submitted, we have received an additional 83 million, but this has caused a delay in paying the contractors, and especially a delay in the realization of objects of social importance, as the directorate itself is so well-conceived. So it's not only the Directorate for Construction and Elimination of the Effect of Earthquakes, but also the Department for the Development of the Colubary County. It is six municipalities and six municipalities expect these funds from the government, a team before the government of the Republic of Serbia practically adopted this information on the damage found on 27 February 2003. So, there was a revaluation, and after that revaluation, which reduced 40% by the original estimated damage, the country's commitment remained at around 13 billion and 988 million. You've heard how much to date it's been paid, which resulted in about 50% of the facilities being done, and also exactly 39 social-owned objects. I mean, first of all, schools, churches, kindergartens, of course, infrastructure, which is also funded from these funds. I have to say that I have submitted an amendment asking for an additional 100 million, because so much at this point the Directorate is limping because of the 2004 rebalancing. On the Finance Committee, I got one reasonable explanation, but it won't satisfy all those who watch this transmission and who expect that at least by the end of 2006, another month and a half of how long the work season lasts, to be done to them by the end of 2006. The reason is that they should address the Ministry of Capital Investment. I also expect from this place to invite the competent ministries, the Ministry of Capital Investment and the Ministry of Finance to agree on this whole procedure for the allocation of those 100 million, at least from the budget reserve. I think it's an obligation, and as the state will deal with the problem in the future, I would say, my agreement with the people, that is, about accepting the estimated damage, that remains to be seen. I must say that the Directorate has on several occasions addressed highly constructive proposals, i.e. the Council of Directorates, Governments and competent ministries, i.e. We have proposed that, through favourable low-interest loans, all interested citizens who want to resolve their housing issues come into contact. We were also trying to resolve this issue with personal participation, namely to approve personal participation that would solve the problem and reach the roof over the head. There was also a nasty experience, which I won't talk about, in the period until 2004, when there was a lot of illegality. There are responsible authorities, such as the MUP, the prosecution, the judicial authorities, budget inspections and everyone else, who should do their job. We've been trying to make it easier to resuscitate with construction material. I would remind you that at this point, on this or on that basis, whether about 4,500 citizens have been registered for the construction of a new or for the restoration of an existing facility in all six municipalities of the Kolubar region. Therefore, it is a very serious business and a great responsibility for the government. I believe we'll be able to agree on that, as we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29252	I thank you, too, Mr. Belic. The word is by Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Jovan Todorovic, Dr. Paja Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29253	At first, I would like to address the citizens of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia, because it is the same situation – both with you and with us. You have that Cavic and Dodik, and we have Kostunica and Tadic. The two of you now lie to you a little, they remember they're Serbs because the elections, and these here, they're lying to us, and they remember they're Serbs ahead of the election. The tactics are exactly the same -- how to cheat, and to survive DOS -- DOS in Serbia, DOS in Republika Srpska. The last names are different, and they can be exactly the same. They finally started kissing and loving each other, watching games together. Wherever they show up together, we lose. Now we could move on to the budget, namely the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006. We should remember what it looked like about eleven months ago, when the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget was adopted in this building and when an epochal thought was spoken, a man said, and remained alive – in 2006 we will have a surplus. We were, like, talking here -- what, man, black surplus? We have so many open holes in public finances, and we have a priority to fill it in, so there's a question of what kind of black surplus it is, because when it's filled, there's no surplus. Then it is said that we must boast, in order to outreach others. Of course, at the beginning of the one-hour presentation of Minister Dinkic, he calculated that it was his last statement in the government, he explained everything to us. He was rubbing his hands a little because of these events in Hungary. It is my fault that someone can look forward to such events as they were in Hungary, because that is their internal problem. I'd just like to remind you of what I warned you about a year and a half ago from this pay phone, just when it comes to this county of 64. We didn't take it seriously, so after six months, that bear played here in Vojvodina. Now you see where they went. It's better that this government has come up with a plan to see if there's a group out there that's warmed up, maybe the ones from CESID or the Resistance. Wherever parliamentaryism is destroyed, they go like grey ravens. Here said Mladjan Dinkic: "Germany should crack." I don't know if this is what the German ambassador is listening to. You'll get, for God's sake, for this. It's easy for Mr. Dinkic to talk, because he sold everything, the rest are just tractors. The tractor, too, has to sell, because there's nothing to process. Now this looks like a joke to you, but the epochal results come true – by sale. I will be very careful to criticise both the surplus and the National Investment Plan, whatever you mean by those three words, for the simple reason that I have warned the Government of the Republic of Serbia here for two years – that there must be development investments. But I couldn't imagine that you would treat development investments as – painting classrooms, building offices for customs, building other buildings. Because it is not a national investment and it is not the National Investment Plan that has, above all, a goal or a basic function to build an object for the sake of an area within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. This is not an investment, because there is no fertilisation and no such investment brings new funds. These are only investment in fixed assets, in the purchase of equipment, which is something that must be contained in each budget or, more specifically, in the Law on the Budgetary System as a general regulation, in which you will indicate that in the course of the year, out of total revenues, public revenues in the Republic of Serbia, 2.5%, i.e. select as much as you can assess, must go to permanent investments to make the state exercise its functions and competences. That's not the case here. This is where the election is being prepared. We're told here that we're too rich, too rich a country. If we are so rich and we have such surpluses, we are better than Germany, we are better than Hungary, then what we are looking for in the European Union – then they are "an orphan". Is that clear? How is it possible for a country to be rich and citizens to be poor? There's something wrong with the logic of a case like that. If there is such a surplus, then cut taxes and segregation for the state, because then we have a common state. It's not a social program if you cut your taxes. In that case, you answer us that you cannot cut taxes, because they are below the level in Europe. When such a case, then I ask you to give us all the parameters when you measure them, to look at them – the height of the social product, the annual growth of the gross social product, what is the structure of the social product, what is the total participation of public consumption in the gross social product, what are the personal incomes, what is the state of employment, what are the personal incomes, what is the real standard. It is only then that you place VAT rates and other procedures that go from business to personal income. You don't do this, but you selectively take one criterion and say – that's where we meet the conditions for Europe. The question arises whether we have met the conditions for personal income. We didn't do that. We have not met the conditions of employment either. You say the National Investment Plan increases employment. What kind of employment are you talking about? I want you to tell me if that's the number of employees in the police department, in culture, in which ministry. No, you're going to only hire those who are working on building basics and immovableities, or those who might need to build some equipment that needs to be obtained under this program. Show me what you've increased your employment. You say by this plan you can increase employment by 50, 100 or 200 thousand people. I'm telling you, these aren't public works to talk like that. This is positioning. Tell a man here, we have a great advantage, we can export electricity... And which one of us, Hamovic, Lazarevic, Abramovich? So there's Paddy Ashdown, and because of him, they've been arrested here in connection with electricity, because he's the biggest electric dealer in Europe. Who are we to increase exports, Serbia? It's possible, and where is that export income going to go, who's going to put it in their pocket? He's running away, he's gone, he's not interested in this. Citizens, if you see him somewhere, tell him, ask him all that. Furthermore, how can we pass the budget rebalancing law and give new sections 29 and 30, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, when we don't have it? We don't have it under the Constitution or the law. If you think I'm lying, doesn't lie to the Prime Minister, he submitted a bill on amendments to the Ministry's Law on 21 July, so he said there, in that first member of the Bill, the new ministry -- the Ministry of Defence, and the foreign ministry. How could you plan funds for those two ministries? So how could you plan this? Now, citizens, you will understand how all this is being prepared for the next election. I am very grateful to these paid analysts, because they say about this: losers in transition vote for the SRS, and winners vote for the democratic bloc. Let's see who the losers are -- the losers are all those who may have had a good job and worked, and the winners in the transition, they're your thieves. Why is the transition not evenly distributed in terms of the burden? No, I just told you, you've raised years of age as a condition for retirement. You kicked people out who don't even have 50, maybe 45, can't get a job, can't retire. You take revenge on people for not wanting to vote for you in 1992, 1993 and so on. From this pay phone, the minister says that those who have five years of employment will get a 60% salary increase! And those who have worked for 20 or 30 years, what will they receive, a long nine to the head? They can expect it from him. You know, if a minister comes in and kills 500,000 people, he'll have fantastic statistical results. He's already killed the pensioners. Look at the average pension data, 10 grand, 12 grand, 13 grand and so on. This is where they raise the prices, and you've introduced the pay for your television. What do they have to look at you and then where's it going? Now they listen to Minister Dinkic, who says – come on, we have money, we don't know what to do with the money, and this man who has nothing to say – well, give some for the pensions, give some for this and for that. You took your pensions off on an IMF order. So, we vote for rebalancing, to vote for Vuk Draskovic and this close associate, Natasa Kandic, we amnest your violation of the rules, the law and the constitution, you who swear by the Constitution and the law, who deceived the citizens into respecting the Constitution and the law?- I'm sorry. And people believed that you were different from these “yellow ones. ” You're the same, there's no difference, the only question is who's going to be first in the coalition and who's going to be second. The SRS has the entire DOS, all political parties. To see who the winners are now. The first winner, based on this distribution, has been divided – the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic will spend 171.478,000 dinars this year, and there are no national offices in positions anywhere. Look at this page 8 and half 9, there are no two words – People's Office. I just think you've planned a little bit of funding to get – a fee in nature, because it takes a lot more to get in nature. So, I think of Tadic, in nature he should win, because he travels at the state cost, likes a man to travel, likes to paint, likes to travel like Jovanca, but Jovanca won the lottery, and for this says Kostunica - the road, just run away, not to look at you, not to cause me any interference. Next, look at another winner of the transition. The government, the cabinet of the Prime Minister – 70,954,000 dinars, and it's just his cabinet. Remember last year, there was a Balinian here who explained, the President's Office, the Vice President's Office, they change, they pay what you want, etc. So 70 million will be spent by Vojislav Kostunica, not by the General Secretariat, not by the Government, but by the cabinet. So, Vice President's Office, I'm sorry, I think this is 33,944,000 dinars, that's what the Vice President's Office costs. Furthermore, the Office for Media Cooperation, I think it's 96, you can't see it because of the light, that's the one Srdjan Djuric, the one who broke up Ahtisaari, killed him with statements. Then, the Office for Joining the European Union, that is the lady who is constantly changing colors, Mrs. Miscevic, she should spend almost 90 million this year. And that's the winner of the transition. So, you who lost your job, you're losers from a democratic bloc's point of view, you're primitive, you're simple, you vote for the SRS, you're uneducated, and if you were a little educated, you'd be winning, you'd vote for a democratic bloc. This woman has been properly reconstructed, and she will spend 90 million this year, and what she's saying is whether we delivered Mladic or we're going to catch the connection, and since we didn't, and she's sulking, she gets angry, that's why you didn't deliver Karadzic, because if you had delivered, we would have solved everything. Let's move on, the Anti-Corruption Council, it's the one that's gonna attack the apartment, so 15.5 million. We don't need them, we don't have any use for them, and that was invented by G17 plus in one period when he wanted to change DS. Government service, I think it's about five billion and 300 million. How many pensions would that be for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how many children's supplements! If this amount were to be taxed, and some, as much as you could reduce the value added tax rate, how much you could reduce the tax on property, on the income of citizens, how much you could influence the reduction of municipal fees charged to citizens! No, you are the winners of the transition and you share the spoils. So, prey is not a development investment, as a permanent category. If someone thinks, and teaches us here, that our budget should be programmatic and that it contains some items that will point to behaviour in a few years, although it should contain a memorandum of budgetary policy, but I am not entering a theoretical debate, then there must be a stable source of funds for these types of investments by the Serbian state -- in facilities, equipment and actions from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, and it has all to the citizens. So, we don't argue that schools should be arranged, streets should be fixed, we don't dispute anything that's in the function of the state, but it can't be a kind of mania based on that -- we took Karico, come on, brothers, let's share. No, but write it every year: the total revenue achieved by the Republic of Serbia goes at an appropriate percentage for permanent investment and development of state bodies, so that the Republic of Serbia can meet its legal obligations to citizens. Then you have the opportunity to enter into the budget law itself another column, so you're going to say, in this year, in the next year, etc., and not what you're doing now, and you say, mainly, from privatisation we're going to finance, and then 80 percent, and then 20 percent of the debt, but what kind of debt. Because why are you in charge if you have a surplus? Do you really think there are so many crazy people in this country? How much will Mr. Vuk Draskovic spend? Because I can't say - Mr. Minister, I can't say the Ministry, I can't say about this Kandic. He advertised himself, he said in the gallery this morning: "I am an expert in pathology throughout the country and I have to go." A close associate of Carla del Ponte is all over the place as an expert. Not to tell you about the craftsmanship that was in Zvornik, he made an incident but, well, sometimes someone will change that. Of course, he became a minister because he's an uncle. He was an uncle once from the DSS and it was the main criterion to choose him. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. I found this division of 30, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Almost 4 billion will receive Vuk Draskovic, because of what someone there says is important, urgent, etc. It can be paid from the current budget reserve, it is no problem, but by voting for budget rebalancing you are extending and giving fresh blood to the government and Vojislav Kostunica not to go out here with these two ministers, Kobajagi. That's the whole point of this story. Of course, Vuk Draskovic spent 4 billion in his own own way, making sure he didn't insult his wife so she wouldn't beat him up. It's the same with the Department of Defense, yes, you can laugh for free. They will have 31 billion, it will benefit an irresponsible man, who was not elected by the National Assembly, who goes abroad and promises our soldiers who will go abroad, who will serve - for whose interests, not for the interest of the citizens. These people, as individuals, will be able to use 1,000 euros here to earn, as cannon meat to someone – to whom? The ones you received this morning at 9:00 in the Federal Assembly. Losers and winners, but losers don't have to be convinced through this assembly pay phone. For an hour, he was talking about what he represented as the finance minister. Of course, those others who are there in the government are wisely silent, hunting for the results of work, good statistics, good results, it's just the problem that citizens don't see. The citizens don't see it. You wastefully use the funds of this budget, you give unauthorized people unlimited availability. I just get chilly when Ivica King goes to the ball and Vuk Draskovic goes abroad. Then Partizan gets a goal, and we get a riot abroad. It's the same for you, ask anyone. When that goalie comes – a disaster, when Vuk Draskovic – a disaster. When Tadic leaves – two disasters. What he does, he talks only about what a political scene is in Serbia, why they should support the winning democratic bloc. Who's in the winning democratic bloc? All DOS, NGOs, etc. If the citizens rebel, then one of these experts comes from new coalition groups that are being built on a local level, and he says, vote just to get the money and pave the street, get the kindergarten, paint the school. You started using the Investment Program before it was formally elected here in the Assembly. Why? Well, you don't need a vote in the assembly, you have everything. Because you are counting, and in the new allocation of the mandate, you will be strengthened by the "yellow" brothers, to get to 126 again and to start another round of apocalypse for the people of Serbia. In Republika Srpska, the situation is the same if Cavic and Dodik win the victory immediately the next day they have a story. That's how they fought for legalism, fought for public finances, for clean hands, so they forgot all that, and here they are now catching a connection with the Democratic Party for some new coalition. Where is Bodrum, where what Dinkic and his exorcists are, you've forgotten all that. It's your "great brother", not the one from television, but the one from America who hit the ears and said -- again, to be in the same place, another circle of hell has to be passed and to be deceived by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's the whole story of our rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've made quite an amendment, so we'll say very precisely who the winners are and who are the losers of the transition.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29254	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. Have Dr. Pai Momchilov prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29255	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, ladies of the Ministry of Finance, much has been said about the proposal to amend and supplement the 2006 Budget Law. In some elements, I would share optimism with Mr Dinkic, but in some parts of this proposal, I would have serious concerns or at least a different view of the concept of budget rebalancing proposed to the National Assembly. It is understood that all citizens of Serbia and all MPs can encourage some data concerning GDP growth and controlled inflation in the planned 9.3% frameworks on an annual basis, as well as those concerning budget revenues for the first eight or nine months of 2006. I am one of those who thinks the budget surplus should be just an exception and that it must not become a rule in the country's public finances such as Serbia. It is understood that Serbia is a poor country and that this fact about the budget surplus does not need to be exploited too much in the way it has been done so far. It's a good thing we made extra income compared to what we planned, when we adopted the budget for 2006, but there are a few issues here. I'll start with the National Investment Plan. Someone's gonna do it a little backwards, but you'll see why. That is, therefore, something that is the development component of the 2006 budget for these three months, and especially what we will have in 2007. But if today we get a notice from Mr Dinkic that at the end of 2006, 31.12. we will have about 110 billion liquid funds in the budget account and that we will transfer those funds in 2007, if we get a notice that we are going to spend or invest 33 billion in the National Investment Plan by the end of 2006, then there is a serious question - where are we. Are we as a society ready to absorb this volume of money and invest in real things and projects? When I say projects, then we seem to be coming up with a fact that is dreary and sad for all of us, it doesn't matter where we come from, and that's that local communities at this point weren't ready to accept this part of the funds because they didn't have the right projects. When we talk about the budget surplus, if I were Mr Dinkic, or Minister of Finance, and I would give God to be, I would use some of this budget surplus on something other than what he suggested, so in the 2007 budget, as a significant item, I would provide for the resources to make projects. I would direct this part of the funds with a special purpose to local communities, so that in 2007, or half of 2007, we would welcome ready-made projects for what we call capital investments. Nothing is disputed here, it's a good wish, it's a good intention, it's a good idea that part of the privatisation income finally starts to be used in the right way, not for general or public spending, for office materials, phone costs, etc., but just in investment, investment in new employment. There's an absurd in there. You saw in the department relating to the National Investment Plan that we would have advice to monitor the implementation of these projects. Then they say – the ministry that is mostly represented in a particular investment is given by the president of the council, others by members etc, but also by the President of the Republic proposes a member of the project monitoring council. I don't understand the role of the President of the Republic. I understand state institutions, I understand independent experts, I understand ministry representatives, I understand many others, but I don't understand what the President of the Republic has to do with the Investment Plan in 2006 and 2007, when it's explicitly or exclusively government business. What's Mr. Tadic got to do with him and what's his role in who's giving him that right, what law? According to the Constitution, I don't see his jurisdiction in that area. I'm a little surprised not to say surprised. What would I do with a surplus of 15.5 billion, or surplus that we'll have 31. 12, provided everything is realised as Mr Dinkic says. I wouldn't pay back the debts, at least not the ones that are here, maybe some others, for example. If we already have the extra funds, why part of that funding, the 20 billion dinars we owe to farmers on the basis of outstanding pensions, we wouldn't pay by the end of the year. We are 20 billion in debt to farmers, only next year will we start paying them back a little bit, and today we fear that farmers will use these funds unusable or misused, or that they will do some inflation, as if peasants will go to sea or Hawaii, and that they will not use those funds for the autumn sowing, for plowing, for the purchase of fertilizers, for the purchase of oil derivatives, for the purchase of agricultural machinery, etc. Why don't we pay back some of the pensioners' debt based on working relationship, by faster dynamics than planned? Why don't we pay back the debt to the National Bank of Serbia? Why am I saying this? Because we now have one cynical request from the IMF to repay some debts first to use the funds achieved on the basis of privatisation revenues for this National Investment Plan. Take, say, the World Bank. I remember talking about it in 2001 when Mr. Labus, and then Mr. Djelic, as finance minister, demanded the consent of both the Federal Government and the Assembly, including these congregations, to be in charge of the World Bank for the so-called. a consolidation loan of about $1,800,000.000,00. Why? To pay back our previous debts. We have such a situation today that this is the most unfavourable loan this country has, or which it owes, because we have a 5.8% interest for the first third of the time, in the second-third we have a library plus 0.55, and in the third-third we're also going to have a library, but on the euro account, or on the euro plus 0.55, and then, from half of 2009, we're going to have 5.81%, which is very unfavourable in those international transactions. First they asked us to be in charge to repay some of their loans, claims, and now the IMF says, "Well, now put it back." I wouldn't pay it back now, especially since the question of the amount of debt from that time is very discriminatory, given the interest that has been charged at the time of sanctions, and it is very well known to the public that we did not break the payments with abroad, but rather those and those international financial institutions. So first, I would pay back the debt we owe in our domestic currency to farmers, based on pensions and working relationship. Then I would step up the pension fund, not just by 5.5 billion dinars, as predicted here, because the fact that pensions have increased, instead of the planned 4.34%, by about 8.5%, maybe 9%. It's just matching up with the rise in prices. So there's no real pension growth, which should take into account the fact that wages are up 20%. It wouldn't have been that increase either, I want to remind the public that the Socialists have not just insisted on the amendment that required this method of harmonisation. If it were different, pensions would have lagged in real terms. What else has been neglected? Subsidies, 3,850,000.000,00 subsidies for large enterprises, those that are being restructured. We're talking, and I agree with that story, we need small and medium-sized enterprises. But I remind you, there are no small ones without the big ones. Someone has to answer the question – when will we finish restructuring the Viskoza-type company in Loznica and many others in Serbia who are hiring, according to my knowledge, over 150,000 people. Is there a plan here? Why are we now at 3,850,000.000,00 trying to keep so-called. A warm state in these companies, so we can eventually wait for an attractive foreign partner to be a potential buyer? How much money is needed to make, say, one Viskoza with 2,500 workers, how much does he work in this warm state today? Two and a half thousand people times 10,000 euros, it's easy to calculate how much one such factory costs. Who, in fact, would be worth it to disappear at this point, because with subsidies of 3,850,000.000,00, it's simply not possible to keep warm and wait for a buyer? We have 910,000 unemployed, they say so much, I believe a million are unemployed. We don't have a plan to hire them. I agree that these investments will directly or indirectly increase the number of employees. But we don't have a plan to revive the economy. We don't have that incentive. I'll go back to the surplus one more time. If we don't know what we're going to do with those 15 billion, then let's put them into the Development Fund to capitalize on the Development Fund, the way it's supposed to be amended and complemented by the Development Fund Act. Let's make the Development Fund able to emit a surplus credit to an economy that wants to start some production, both small and medium-sized enterprises, and also those who have given themselves to some developmental swing. I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to allow me to use the other ten minutes of our chairman of the Parliament Group, Mr. Ivica Dacic, given that I am an authorised representative for this point, so as not to waste the time of my fellow Members of Parliament belonging to the Parliamentary Group. (President: please, let me reset. ) When we adopted the 2006 budget, I said, and today I will repeat, the draft budget, and the proposal for this law on amendments and amendments to the Law gives optimists the right to believe that everything will happen this way and gives pessimists the right to criticise this budget. It's something that's normal and common for our congregation discussion and procedure and I have nothing against it. I'm an optimist today, provided we find solutions to what I just mentioned today. The surplus must be an exception. The best balance is a balanced balance. If we show surpluses year by year, we show an unreal picture of ourselves. It's just like if a man had 1,000 euros in his pocket, owed 10,000 euros and kept boasting about these 1,000: that's what I had left at the end of the year, I got them here, but I didn't pay my neighbor back the debt, I didn't pay for electricity, I didn't pay for the plumbing, I didn't pay for a lot of things, and I should have done it. So there's no real surplus and that's what we need to understand, but it is commendable that we've been able to balance public costs or public expenditures for two years now compared to what's coming into that register. Furthermore, why, for example, do we only increase the expenditure on tourism and trade by 500 million? We have passed the Law on Tourism and Trade and have adopted that there is a budget fund for the development of the area. Some tourism projects should be financed, as tourism is some comparative advantage of Serbia. That is energy, which Mr Dinkic is talking about, but you notice there is no increase in energy funding in the budget. There is no possibility for common funds, for example, to build mini hydrogen on the Drin water flow, on many other water streams across Serbia, which is what we are abounding as a country. Where we were able to gain a comparative advantage by just these funds that were achieved based on privatisation, slightly unexpected to the public, we could have allocated significantly more resources than we planned here. I would especially like to welcome the commitment to make the area more enlightened and sport more resource-absorbed than it has ever been before. I assure you, as president of the Committee on Sports and Youth of the National Assembly, that, together with my colleagues from the Committee, I have visited all of Serbia, established a catastrophic situation on the ground: both in open terrain and in sports halls, and in the case of gyms. Believe that there are many high schools, with over 1,000 or 1,500 students, who have no physical hall at all, that open terrains to this extent are maimed that simply a man can't imagine any sporting activity in that field. That is why I welcome the determination to allocate 240 million for the construction and reconstruction of these open sports fields and children's playgrounds by the end of the year, another 700 million in 2007, a total of 940 million. So a little less than a billion, but I'm sure it's not nearly enough to solve that problem of sports and physical halls. Zoran Angelkovic, who chaired this assembly, was Minister for Youth and Sports and many halls ended, but some began and did not finish them while we were in power. I don't see in this proposal for rebalancing, or in the one that's being conceived for 2007, that at least one of those halls that started in the last decade, we're going to end up in this decade, and that's too bad. There are significant social resources invested there. We could end them with relatively small amounts, which would not affect or burden the budget, and we would do a great service to young people who are engaged in sports, and not only young people, but also to others who come to these sports events and competitions organised in these facilities. Microcredits for self-employment will be increased by 212m compared to the planned 637m in the following year, a total of 850m. How much money is that? From what I understand, 850 million dinars is 10 million euros. How many people can be hired with 10 million euros? A little. We have in Serbia, without KIM, and we must not forget them either, funds for over 150 municipalities, so if we divide those 10m euros into 150 municipalities, we will see that these are very small funds. We can't expect self-employment just with funds this low in the budget. Industrial zones and parks -- a billion and 380 million by the end of the year, six billion and 350 million in 2007, that's 7 billion and 700 million. We need these industrial zones, we need arranged locations, we need infrastructure, anything that could possibly attract these foreign investors. There is a good example in Loznica: Italians have bought one location, now others have appeared, etc., it is now one pelzer that needs to serve as a guideline for many other foreign investors who want to get where the location is located, where we have industrially introduced electricity and other preconditions to start some production or services. Credit support programme for beginners - 170 million this year, next 425, a total of 595 million. Local municipal infrastructure development -- 264 million by the end of the year, 571 million in 2007, a total of 836 million dinars. Construction and rehabilitation of local roads -- two billion and 500 million by the end of the year, another 4 billion and 705 million, a total of 7 billion and 239 million. And I really need all of this. It's what those who go our way. Although this Veljeva, I say, was activated, elaborated, never finished: the Loznica road – Valjevo road starts with a reconstruction, stops there at the fifth km, then moves to another location; Loznica – Šabac or Šabac – Loznica, however you will, starts from the direction of Loznica, finishes there to Lesnica or Prnjavor, what from Prnjavor to Šapac remains, moves to the third location. Probably so must, precisely for these financial reasons and shortages, but we would have to make some plan that would allow the roads of Loznica – Šabac, Loznica – Ljubovija, or Loznica to the border with the pleasure municipality, to be really reconstructed, not to move from location to location and that what has been done fails, because it is an irrational approach in everything. For the Ministry of Defence, we have an increase in subsidies, as far as I understand the budget, by about one billion, and this will mainly relate to the increase in earnings, by about 20%, employees in the ministry. For the railway, 850 million, for agriculture around 600 million, the Department of Sport - 580, and for the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, as I said, only 500 million, and this ministry could absorb over a billion dinars, perhaps several billion, to create appropriate conditions in Golia, the Old Mountain, to create such conditions in some other tourist areas and other destinations that are attractive to perform tourism activity. There are a lot of poor people in Serbia, I guess that's a well-known fact and we won't argue about it. They say that over 800,000 people live below the poverty line, and another 800,000 people are on the verge of poverty. So 1,600,000 people, and we here have the fact that increased funding for social security rights and some other rights from 48.3 billion to 53.9, which is nowhere near to prevent or reduce this poverty. The best social policy at this point, as I see it, as in 2007, would be an economic policy that would further stimulate new employment and that in some time from two or three years this number of about a million unemployed would cut by 500,000 or 500,000. Although that's also a high figure, then somehow we could handle all of this at these tax rates, with these rates of contribution and with this total tax burden. If, after all, it turns out that we don't know how to use these 110 or 120 billion dinars, then seriously we have to imagine the question of whether at any level at all, we can rule as it is appropriate for serious people or how citizens expect us to do it. All in all, about voting on this budget rebalancing, I wouldn't want to make a statement. The president of our parliamentary group has said our position. This will depend heavily on the position of the parliamentary group, i.e. the political party G17 plus, because we do not want to participate in certain things that do not concern the interests of citizens, which, eventually, concern only the interests of a particular political party or group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29256	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The messenger of Pai Momchilov has the word, and let Sava Urošević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29257	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, as you have heard, the SRS will not vote for this draft budget. I think it's already clear enough from the exposure of my predecessors which is why we're not going to do it, but it's not against the fact that, perhaps, from the point of view of one doctor, we're also analysing the proposal for a rebalancing that's ahead of us tonight. They say the budget law is the most important law for a single assembly. In the interest and response of MPs in this assembly room and in the number of speakers, that cannot be said. I'm going to use the beginning to re-route a formal objection to the motionary. We have this material, over 300 pages, that's pretty messy, that doesn't look like a serious creation of a serious ministry. If you look at the Pagination, which is handwritten, if you look at what all this looks like, it creates a picture of the mess. For finance, that shouldn't be true, people are dealing with numbers, and figures are pretty exact. When you walk past the Ministry of Finance, this usurped ministry, the former SRJ Statistics Office, you see how it looks on the outside and on the inside, and we have a document like this in front of us. It's a big problem if someone wants to get into these numbers, because the little letters and numbers are almost unreadable, dirty, messy, maltene, this looks like post-war cryptography, when we had the hatographers. Look, if I'm wrong, say I'm wrong. When a man sees who signed it, Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic, it's no wonder. This is the lady who, when elected Deputy Prime Minister, said she has three main goals: the first, the arrest of General Mladic, the second -- the unification of democratic parties to oppose radicals and the third goal is to continue negotiations with Europe. On the other hand, there is nothing among these objectives that would make a normal person fit our current situation, such as preserving our country's territorial integrity, a better social standard, the development of the economy. There's no place like this among the priorities of this lady, so no wonder that one such material, which does not serve the motionary, is in front of us and we have trouble reading it. I must repeat that often here in the Assembly, it is said that we have passed many laws, and, on the other hand, it is said again that the current government of Mr Kostunica wants to seduce law, justice and strengthen institutions. We already have a breach of the law in our budget. I've pointed out that before. If you look at the Budgetary System Act, Article 5 says - budget receipts and expenditures must be balanced. It's the current law, which was passed in 2002. You're breaking your laws with this phantom surplus. And it's clear to the little kid that the surplus is virtual, artificial and unreal. Not to mention how much it owes to citizens for old foreign exchange savings, how much it owes to farmers for pensions and everything else, it's clear to every normal person, in a country that has debts rose to almost $15 billion, and in 2000 it had nine billion, so that story about a surplus is quite funny. What we criticized about this virtual surplus is how real it is. It is real in deprivement of our patients, our patients, of the withdrawal of subsidies in Serbia, where you have an average personal income of 21.925.00 dinars and a consumer basket of 26.288.00 dinars in August. Is the way to fuck public spending depriving the rights of patients, pensioners and other categories of citizens? Is this the right way, when it is said that in transition, the most important concern is that of your mentors, you hear that, social policy, that he takes great care of adequate social policy? This consumer basket, although you say you are Europeans, is not a European basket, there is no separation in that basket for culture and sport. Now we hear that item will be inserted. What will that White Palanca resident, who has no salary or this average of Serbia, say, but has 7,000,00 dinars? Not even for a consumer basket. If you watch Belgrade, which has the highest average personal income - of 27,000,00 dinars, you will see that the situation is not the same in Belgrade either. You go to Mladenovac, there's 16.000,00 average personal income. And now you're talking about how you have money, how is the situation good? How do our citizens feel about that? Do they agree with that? If it's good for the state, it should, as Mr Krasic said, be at least a little better for the citizens. These praises we've heard from Mr. Secretary to leave. Look at what the Council of Europe said to you in 2005 in its document on the government's reform position and the way it does it. I'm not quoting that. Look at that. Look what the World Bank and the IMF said. From 2002 to 2005 corruption is on the rise and blooms. That's our reality. This is the reality in the country of Serbia today and those personal incomes of 21.000,00 on average for Serbia, that is reality. This is how you live in Serbia today. From what we've now seen, the law is being broken. It breaks another way when you're looking at this budget. Budgetal distribution and consumption in this country no one controls. Let me remind you: in November 2005 the Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted, in May of the month it was due to come to life. The institution was supposed to control direct and indirect budget users, not to list everything now. That body doesn't exist. Mr. Minister says - it's a matter of Parliament. It's like we don't know that the Parliament is the government's transmission instead of the other way around. Here is the majority of the government's transmissions, and the government controls the majority. It's not the opposite case. It's a reality. If you want to admit it, you can, if you don't, you don't have to. Let's say something in principle about this budget rebalance proposal. I've got Mr. Dinkic's exposés here. He told us nicely when we adopted the budget that this year we expect that the surplus in the consolidated account of all public finances users in Serbia will amount to about 35 billion dinars. What do we have today as a reality? Fifteen billion, but we have another. We have economic gymnastics. What gymnastics? Change of budget methodology. Now the principal debt doesn't count on the expense side. We have a changed situation now. All pointed out that 55 billion, which went to the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, should now be redistributed. We have, for sure, this good sale. The Socialists keep saying, we have better sold half or less of the "Mobtel" to the Italians, and you are boasting about this sale to the Norwegians. That's extra income, that's reality. Why was a new data display methodology created? Experts from the Economic Institute, around the MAT group, say briefly - hide, settle, and it seems true. But there's one more thing that's interesting. At the same time, our NBS comes out with a new economic policy strategy and advocates targeted inflation. We all agree on the need to preserve the country's macroeconomic stability. The government seems to have begun to draw on one side with its fiscal measures, and the NBS, with monetary policy, is going to drag on the other side. Now we see that both of them are somehow opposed, that they will make opposite moves. What's this all about in one country? I can't predict. National investment plan, a few words about him alone. It's one farce, that's clear to everyone. He didn't exist at all when we talked about the budget, when we adopted the 2006 budget. Now someone wonders that someone couldn't handle it, so he didn't apply to his programs, so there he is, whether he should be punished or not. There was no talk of him, now suddenly he showed up. Clearly, I will not explain it, that he is the instrument of political struggle, that today you have the most primitive campaign run by certain political party leaders in Serbia, let's say names, Mr. Ilic, Mr. Palma, go, promise to give state money, to God, as if from their own pocket they offer. They literally say so, I listened to my ears, and I couldn’t believe, in the woody neighborhood, when Mr. Ilic came to a village and said: “What is dust here, people? I'll let you build the roads. You don't have anything to do, here, I'm giving Palmi, Palma has programs." Yeah, he's got TV, all of it. But to leave that national plan, it is well spoken of, and others will certainly speak. It is said to us, radicals, that we criticise all living things, and here, all that I have said as a criticism so far, all that has been said by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Council of Europe. Here, let me tell you a few more things. Interestingly, the Slovenian newspaper "Finans" published a comment "Radical Destroying of Serbia". A certain Mr. Miroslav Prokopivic, a professor of public elections and European studies, from Belgrade, gave an interview. What's a reality, when we look at these dreary figures on personal incomes, the consumer basket, since 2000, is that Europe has given about four billion euros in aid. Five to six billion euros were given through loans, and investments are about five billion euros. We wonder, if all of this has come here, and we have this kind of economic situation in the population, and if we compare it, there's something wrong. Here's what Mr. Prokopijevic says: “Democratic forces have spent their primary energy on corruption wealth and petty quarrels, and despite booming corruption, none of the corruption affairs have received a judicial epilogue, because among the democratic forces there is consensus, because everyone steals and breaks the law, no one is sent to prison. It made the impression among voters that politicians of democratic parties are villains and small profits. "It didn't make an impression, that's probably true. So, corruption is eating the social being of this country and it's galloping here like a monster. What else does that gentleman say? He says: "Since there were no serious reforms that would allow most Serbian citizens to live much better, it is clear that most live badly because the average monthly salary is 250 euros. Worse still, there will be no better situation in 10 to 15 years." So that's what someone in your group of Europeans, a man who gives these attitudes, and that's what the Slovenes published two or three days ago. Then, he says: “Privatised companies have been fired from excess employees. The budgetary constraints have raised the number of bankrupt companies, and the greenfield investments, which could create new jobs, have been low and since 2000 have not exceeded 150m euros a year. "So, from the foundation to the roof to lift the factory, here's how the investments are going, and that's the right way to achieve economic prosperity, I'm not going to say well-being. The National Investment Plan should deal with this rather than with what it does. My party comrades made it clear that it was something they had already done, so now they want to get cover for what they promised, give and do. The national investment plan is, says this gentleman, that's your buddy, "dead baby". "This plan is both an economical and political stillborn. The economy has been profoundly lost because inflation, spending, the growth of corruption and the draining of the state's strength will only cause damage. The improvement will be temporary, and the situation, when 1.5 billion euros are spent, is more difficult. It is clearly seen that corruption here is booming, that it will also eat these resources that are now available, which are being invested in this way. So, not to raise capacity and strength of the economy, but to spend. Let's leave these quotes, so they don't always get radicals, that's what they say. Democrats, and they're still saying that to the Slovenians. There's no confusion. A few notes on the health care part of this whole story. It's very difficult for me to interpret these items. Items are unclear and incomprehensible. The question is why now, with the budget rebalance, the contracted services grow by 170 million dinars. Who's going to explain that to us? Here, this gentleman here who plays the minister, he's gone. There's no discussion here. You can't ask here, you can't get an answer here. There's a kind of deaf conversation going on here. I'm asking from this place, if anyone is going to courteous from these ladies, I don't know what their role is, sitting down like this, what drove the legislator to raise 170 million favors per contract? What kind of favors are these? We don't know at all. There's nothing explained. That's what it's given. There is now one item -- donations and transfers to other levels of government, well, donations to NGOs. When you write "non-governmental organisations", we don't know what they are. We see that the last item - the budget fund for the Red Cross. So, the Red Cross is out, maybe the Alliance of the Blind, maybe the Alliance of the Deaf, maybe the disabled, but we don't see it. It says here: NGO. There are hundreds of NGOs. You can't miss writing such a serious document. We need to know exactly where the money is going. If you don't want to write, then you have to go out and explain it to us. You don't do that. You are not interested in the Messengers or the people. You have "more interests" -- to repay the debt to the International Monetary Fund, and that is the essence of the fictitious surplus you are proud of. As foreign reserves are accumulated only as guarantees to the IMF and the World Bank that our debts will be paid back, and nothing else. You are draining the tortured Serbian people, still povertying them, for the interest of the West, and that is the essence of this document and budget. There is no great perspective, honest and real, for the sake of the Serbian people. That's what you have to say and that's the truth. When people come from your camp like this, it's quite clear. I just want to point out one thing where you were wrong. Here's the plan of the Insurance Fund, which was supposed to provide in surplus 10 billion dinars. What happened because we have now, with rebalance, 6 billion? So, it's unreal, you're being kidnapped where you shouldn't have been, you're taking kidney patients, you're taking compensation for people's illness. Costs have been broken. That unreal story, that lie told here, that it would be 10 billion at the expense of health care, it fell. Here, now you've barely sown six billion. But what went up in expenses? If reforms in health care are discussed, then reforms should carry the primary health sector, which is the main backbone of the health system, and it is also through this budget, and through previous budgets depressed. Here's an example that has nothing to do with the budget. Today, thousands of doctors of general medicine have their largest gathering and celebrates 40 years of existence. Do you think someone in power went to give these people a decent jubilee, to thank them for what they've been doing for 40 years, or not? Of course not. The minister doesn't have to leave, but there are deputy ministers. No one's gone to say hello. It's clear why, they can't, they can't show themselves. It's not the place to talk about what and how. That's what our sad reality is. What I'm saying here is that secondary and tertiary protection has re-exploited the costs, the drugs have re-exploited the costs. With a pharmaceutical lobby, you gotta be good and you gotta listen to warrants. Didn't we bring the drug agency bill for free to make a profit on the pharmaceutical lobby? This persists, and, of course, the primary health care costs are expected to be reduced. This painting and restoration, it's an ongoing maintenance, it's not a reform. They're talking about some cars. Last year, it took 200 cars to get in for medical services, 78 ambulances. The minister took a picture with the first cars to come. What about them? It's like they don't exist. Where's 200 cars? I could ask two people from the Ministry, one lady and one gentleman who ran the project, where cars were inherited. I don't want to talk about the fight against smoking, suddenly seven billion dinars are taken out of credit. Seven billion goes into an item for a fictitious fight against smoking, huge sums, incomprehensible, incomprehensible. So that I don't owe, I'm saying that this is what the Ministry of Reform is talking about. It doesn't fight cardiovascular diseases, we literally die here, and we're the worst in all of Europe, we have another epidemic of cancer, and that's not what we're talking about, and it's about reform. It seems that the center of corruption is in the health care, and extensive tender corruption. Several foreigners reiterated that fact and you now have a situation that for these works announced by the Investment Plan goes to one contractor in a tender that will have subcontractors. What does that mean? The minister calls for a tender, the election minister, determines who gets the tender and all medical supplies, in medicine, go through the ministry. It is clear that when you select one who is already painted, the minister is guessing with him, and then, when the subcontractors expand, they will bargain with the local powers and the guard of the minister. What's the work look like? Go to Nemina, then look at the asphalt that they worked so long. Everywhere the asphalt is refurbished, in a year it will be reparated. Because of this, Serbian radicals will not vote for this budget rebalance, because it is not intended to be for the benefit of the people, to make it easier for the people, rather than for them to be in the service of foreign economic factors.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29258	The People's MP Sava Urosevic has the word, and let Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29259	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the G17 Plus Group will vote in favour of this motion for rebalancing, and I will briefly explain the reasons why the G17 Group of MPs plus decided on such a move. We've had an exhaustive draft of the minister, and I'm going to try to shed some light on things that the minister didn't talk about. In two-and-a-half years' time, how long does this government last, this is the sixth budget law. We've adopted three budgets and this is the third rebalance. If we were to compare all these laws chronologically, we could see one trend in quality improvement, starting with the 2004 budget, through rebalancing, up to this rebalance for 2006. In short, I would refer to earlier proposals for budgets and rebalancing, reminding you that in these budgets we have seen many things that have been completely forgotten in Serbia's public finances. I would talk about the surplus as a category that after who knows how many years it first appeared in the 2005 budget. I would talk about reducing public spending, which also appeared and made budget surplus possible. What is also positive and new is not only budget laws, but also other laws that have been passed in the area of finance, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, these are laws that have allowed for redundancies of the economy, and thus the expansion of the tax collection base, because it is known that in all budgets tax revenues are the percentage of the biggest revenues. In the Serbian budget, it is more than 80%, mostly close to 90% of the tax revenue waste. What made this budget rebalance possible? This budget rebalancing allowed the 2006 budget to be achieved. We, before the 2006 budget, brought budgets for 2004 and 2005, and it proved to be sustainable budgets, and the first eight months of the 2006 budget was proportionate to the time period, so that budget revenues were achieved by 66%, which is approximately two-thirds of the past year, respectively, because eight months passed two-thirds of the year. Tax expenditures have also been made proportionate and in line with the draft budget. The difference occurred, 32 billion surpluses, for eight months. If this is projected for a whole year, it will be about 49 billion, which is an increase compared to a projected surplus of 10 billion dinars. It's something that allowed you to think about surpluses. The surplus could also be considered because macroeconomic parameters in Serbia have become stable. We have come to the conclusion that foreign exchange reserves in Serbia are $10.5 billion, we have come to the conclusion that inflation is likely to be equal to projected, or single-digit, and from the presentation of the minister today we have heard that there is a possibility that inflation will be less than 9% this year. We have come to the fact that real wages in Serbia have increased by about 9% and, what is particularly characteristic of this, is that wage growth in the economy is faster than wage growth in the economy. It's the second year it's been happening, and otherwise, for some period before, it wasn't characteristic. The rise in revenue in budget rebalancing is 33 billion and 369 million, which is 6.84% higher than the revenues projected by the Budget proposal. The biggest point of the increase is economic classification 74, which is non-tax revenues and their increase is 44 billion and 700 million. It's out of line, and someone might think that public spending has grown by so much. If we look at the structure of expenditure growth in budget rebalancing, we will find that a new category appears on the waste side, which is – capital expenditure for the realisation of the National Investment Plan, amounting to 33 billion and 31 million dinars, which is 57% and slightly more than total expenditure increases. By careful analysis, we find that the expenditures that are standard in the budget rise by 5.4%, or 24 billion, which is less than the revenue side. I think, in our people, it's said that it's much harder to make an income side and easier to spend. That's why I'd like to devote one piece of my time to the revenue side and the income side structure. I have already said that the item that has grown the most in the revenue side is – non-tax revenues. Otherwise, if we look at tax revenues, which are 87% in the budget rebalance, we will find some changes compared to the 2006 draft budget. What's this about? It is that tax revenues in the draft budget and the Rebalance proposal differ by some 2.5%, i.e. the ratio between the Budget and the Rebalance proposal is 97.6%, as regards tax revenues. If we enter the structure of all of this, then we see what is particularly interesting – that VAT is planned to be 7.3% lower than planned in the draft budget. What happened? It is known in the world, from countries that have introduced VAT earlier than us, that the second year of its application is characteristic of the decline in VAT revenues and their participation in the gross social product decreases compared to the first year of VAT administration. It is also known that VAT in Serbia, which stems from import products, has a total share of 60% in the total VAT, while participation from domestic products is worth 40% of the total VAT. Since we had a dinar boost in this year, it is clear why VAT revenues are being reduced in part – because the level of import prices is lower due to the change in course. We've got a dinar appreciation in this period. Accizes will be increased by some small value, and customs will be reduced. Why are customs cuts down? Customs duties are shrinking because the customs base is shrinking, although we have continued export growth for the second year. This is very important for macroeconomic stability and in euros this growth is 26.2%. But the rate of dinars fell to the euro, so customs fell by about 4.5%. What's growing is the income tax of citizens. I'd like to point out what this is about. It is known that this government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, led by people from G17 plus, fulfills its pre-election promises by reducing the burden on personal incomes. Logically, it would be followed by a reduction in the income tax of citizens. However, we have, however, a minimal but one increase in the income tax of citizens, which is due to a larger base covered by that income tax. (The President warns the Messengers with the bell. ) The company's profit tax is the most growing income item. This is due to business operations in much more stable conditions, grey economy cuts and that businesses are practically forced to express their real business outcome, because with bad bank balances they can no longer get loans, and the economy is in such a state that without credit, they cannot continue to develop. In the end, what could be said about all this? So far, we've had development budgets, surplus budgets. The paper on this rebalancing is that this time we have a programming budget and, practically, we have a two-year planning plan, while the Ministry is trying to make that planning in five years. That's why the end of 2006 budget will be 110 billion, as these are the funds planned for spending next year. By introducing capital expenditure for the realisation of the National Investment Plan of 33 billion and what was planned in the 2006 budget, we have the participation of capital investments in the social product, this year, by 3%. It is known that it is necessary for capital investments to be approximately 5% of the social product in order to have sustainable development. This year is 3%, and 6% is planned for next year and the trend is expected to continue in the coming years. I believe I have provided enough reason to vote alongside the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, which will certainly vote for this law, and other parliamentary groups vote for budget rebalancing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29260	Thank you, Mr. Urosevic. The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and then Dragoljub Vojnovic, and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have really listened very carefully to the full presentation of the Minister of Finance, as well as the presentation of all the MPs. Some of my personal impressions can only be summed up in one sentence—he who has cursed us has not lost. I've heard many positive and many negative things. If all of this is listened to by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they will not know what is positive, nor will they know what is negative. I'd just like to say a few sentences. The overall surplus, which we have been talking about all afternoon, should be seen in the light of our debts, primarily our domestic debt, then, the external debt and the debt we took over in 2006 as the current financial year. I would only point out that domestic debt is what we have so-called. an old foreign savings loan, a loan for economic development, state records, a debt to the National Bank, a debt to the pensioners, which we turned into a public debt. As far as external debts are concerned, we have debts to the London Club, the Paris Club, as well as the latest duties this year. I think there is no room for great joy in this budget rebalance, nor excessive optimism, but all of this should be put into real frameworks, i.e. in the context of how it is living in Serbia today. I would especially point out that the National Investment Plan, so-called. NIP, it's just a little short on the National Investment Plan. Soon he was "National illegal plan". The plan was met by many members of the ruling coalition, many MPs and the ruling coalition, many county chiefs and many municipal presidents, and this also hid the wing from the opposition MPs, regardless of the function they were currently in. I believe that the citizens of Serbia need to know these things and that is the basic reason why we came in such a stalemate. I can explain that. It is not true that these are the funds obtained by the sale of "Mobtel". You know that the problems in this assembly and in these benches appeared in the middle of 2005, and that they peaked just before the 2006 budget vote. I won't remind you what's been going on and I won't remind you that then the ruling option has taken certain views on how and what will happen to the Karics, that is, with the company. By then they were counting on this income; then it was known that it would be sold and the price would be high. So there were no coincidences, and it was especially not among those at the very top of the government in this country. I would like to say one more thing, which was said by colleagues from the SRS, namely, that certain ministers went all over Serbia in election campaigns and that they promised. So the promises had to be fulfilled, and it will be fulfilled through this national investment plan. No one mentioned that before the vote on the budget, MPs of the ruling coalition on these extortions of funds and the National Investment Plan had conditionaled in this assembly. Unfortunately, Minister Dinkic is not here, but I would like to ask him if this is true or not. If what I said is not true, then perhaps I was deceived by fellow MPs of the ruling coalition with whom I spoke on the subject. What was important at that point was to vote for the 2006 budget. It was not chosen and broken in promises of what would be given to certain MPs in their midst, or what would be built where they came from. Whether it's justifiable or not, whether it's strategic or something else, that's a special question. The important thing is that it was promised and that the vote was won. Then the secret or illegal national investment plan began and he was in some illegal state until the funds were secured and until everyone was invited by the Permanent Conference of Cities, Minister Dinkic, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, State Administration and Local Self-Government, to the "Sava" Centre, when we began to find out slowly about the National Investment Plan. At that meeting, I spoke to my colleagues and found out that they had been granted funds. The National Investment Plan forms didn't exist, that's only later. I went through one construction site, I look forward to every construction site in Serbia, where the board is already standing – the National Investment Plan. We killed ourselves here today by discussing the National Investment Plan, which is already being spent. Who called the tender, in which way, who's the contractor, by which basis, we need an answer. I don't know that. I'd like someone to tell me from these MPs' benches or someone to talk to the public and say, "That's a must, Serbia's used to the sea." And if this is a must, we can understand that. On the one hand, the election campaign is pre-election, and on the other hand, consideration for the MPs. Let's be another year where we are, etc. I wish, when we talk about this National Investment Plan, someone could explain to us the criteria by which the quotas were determined, the sums of money in it. It's given me so much trouble that no matter how much he's done and analyzed it, I can't find any modus that's otherwise publicly spoken, and it's presented as a criterion. First, it's the surface of the territory and, first of all, it refers to local self-government. Please, local self-government is at stake here. Second, population number. Third, development. This third factor was introduced just as one variable that is suitable for manipulation on these political grounds. Who will today say which region or which local self-government is developed, undeveloped, etc., who has the indicators. I guarantee you no one's here. It's very nice to add to political alike, because there are various shops. These shops have already been torn out and the results are already being known. What we're doing is a retroactive debate. We're arguing backwards. We need to live backwards. What's already come to life, we need to approve. I don't think the procedure and order of things are absolutely in place here. I would ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to provide the MPs with a comparative overview of the approved resources of the National Investment Plan by municipalities. Don't worry about the county, because the county is a very broad term, and we live at the level of local self-government. When there's a law on districts, like the Law on Local Self-Government, then I accept that there's a debate about what you're talking about, but I don't accept life as long as it takes place in local self-government or municipalities. In municipalities life is measured by the length of the road, by the length of the sewerage, is measured by the number of inhabitants who use it, measured by the income generated there. That's what we can talk about here, not the districts. Personally, for my district, I can be satisfied with the projected resources of the National Investment Plan, but look at the municipalities in the environment - who got what, and then you will understand what happened in the first half of this year or in the summer of 2006. It's all coming on its own. I'm not saying that someone needs to be taken away from, it's not SRS policy, it's an even allocation to everyone. In that sense, I don't think the Ministry of Finance had a good methodology in making the National Investment Plan or having a system. For what? First, because we did not raise this national investment plan to the level of this assembly and to the level of the Republic. For what? Because the Republic does not have a development strategy and there is no tax on what Serbian priorities are in the development of economy, in the development of local self-government, in the development of life, etc. That's one problem. On the other hand, MPs of the assembly have not discussed some priorities that are important for the state of Serbia. Someone there competed with a project, and it's believed to be of state interest. Gentlemen, we can't do this like that. So the disadvantage is that even local self-government did not have the opportunity to discuss these resources of the National Investment Plan. Now look at the situation Serbia is in. We have a certain portion of the resources we can afford. On the other hand, we do not have a clearly defined or expressed opinion of MPs on what capital investments Serbia can raise from the level at which it is now, to really be investment and insemination of funds from day to day. It was denied to the MPs. You made local self-government, or municipalities not to ask questions about this. Imagine a single municipality, any in Serbia, that should receive some of the funds that are planned here, and that no single committee has discussed this in the parliamentary benches of local self-government. Who is it that took away the basic right of the messengers to debate this, and secondly, who took away the legitimate right of the people of the local government, the councilmen, or those whom the people directly chose, that they might debate it? I think that methodology is absolutely missing and that it is also the failures of the finance ministry, as well as of the entire Serbian government. What was done was done quickly. I can say that there is another danger here, and that is the proposal for a national investment plan for 2006 and 2007. Where the funds were allocated for 2006, they were allocated at some percentage, about 30% for 2006 and 70% for 2007. Now I ask the question – how do we spend these funds that are scheduled and that we will vote on by the end of 2006? It is well said, if not spent by 2006, 50% of these funds could be spent in 2007. That's the government and the finance ministry's calculations, which for local self-government means planting a coward's egg. It must not be done by the Ministry of Finance, nor by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I guarantee that the Ministry of Finance is already operating on a figure that will not be spent in 2006, but will be spent 50% in 2007. Then this investment plan will objectively be realised with much less resources on the ground. The Ministry can't afford that. Are we going to wait for the project teams now until they're consolidated at the Ministry of Finance, so they can come into the local self-government to look at some home of health and look at the tax administration, or do I already know what? Have them build a project. So where's our approval for building all this, how long does it take? We need to be a couple of executive managements to bring it all out by 31.12.2006, that is, in 2007. That, objectively, cannot be expected. The government should take responsibility for not spending these funds in 2006. I know that the presidents of the municipalities and those to whom this will be assigned are safe and have the trust of the people, will do their best to take advantage of it, but objectively, both the Ministry of Finance and the Government know that they will not do it. Then when it is not done, it will be a general criticism – we have indicated it to you and you have not used those means. It can't be done like that. If we have agreed here to have the funds available, then we should either have those funds in the local self-government or you should determine the exact dynamics of the work that these funds need to be spent. And there won't be any interference in local self-government to spend these funds. I'd like to mention two things. First, the national investment plan completely forgets the property of the Republika Srpska Army, which is offered to local self-government for the sake of agreement. These are very interesting investments for local self-government, but also for the state, the Republic of Serbia. No one's taken care of it. They offer it to us and even tell us that they can go to some wars, etc., but the important thing is that it's taken away from the military and put in a seal, that it's not funded. On the other hand, I have to say that neither preschool institutions nor at all investing in the best Serbian investment, which is childbirth. There are no new investments when it comes to kindergartens, when it comes to institutions that mean life. If we do that, all these buildings we build, all these bridges and roads, maybe somebody else will. So we have to take care of both investment and birth in parallel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29262	Thank you, Mr. Stevovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragoljub Vojnovic, and then Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29263	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of my colleagues, I have had the pleasure of hearing today's talk of matter that I have little understanding. You're wondering, then why did I answer? Because I thought we were discussing budget rebalancing today. However, a large number of exhibitions have shown that someone is saying what they think, what is behind it, that, in the end, it would result in a very indicative speech by the head of the parliamentary group. He suggested that the party minister from which he came wanted to present this budget rebalancing as a European and as a model of behaviour, and that behind that, Malten, as my neighbours would say - the left wingback, goes into opposition, etc. Here I heard a good part of Mr. Todorovic's speech, which I very much appreciate and as an acquaintance of economic sciences, from which his commitment was carried out, it would be said that the choice of a true Socialist, who wants that budget and budget rebalance to be social, which I agree with as a pensioner, but I disagree as a member of a political party that has a different, slightly conservative view of how the funds should be available. To say why I answered, I answered for three reasons. The first reason is that I first encounter, as lawyers say, the Institute - a national investment programme. There was talk here all the time about it and less about budget rebalancing. I liked the name, and I liked the way it is thought, as well as the funds that will blend into that fund, which will allow the national investment project to meet some of its demands. These are the following funds: first, the budget surplus, which he charged the most. I don't want to talk about it. Others are privatisation revenues, but for me, the most interesting part is this fourth part, and these are pre-accession funds to the European Union. Gentlemen, if I don't think this is a bad name, I can justify it. First, he wants to equalise certain parts of the Republic and here it is said that around 80 municipalities have only 70% investment per capita compared to the average of the Republic. So that would be one national attempt to even it out. The second is the intention to engage national human resources capable of building these projects for these pre-accession funds. Everyone was talking about whether these projects should be built by local self-government, or whether they should be made by the government. I think national resources from all areas should be involved in the creation of these projects. I couldn't talk about it if it was a travel economy, but I could talk about health care or education, as a former university professor. One more thing, this is where Mr. Secretary mentioned the so-called. Irish model. By reading almost the press, an extraordinary article, I noticed that the Irish had 40% to 60% of the national gross income of the English, and that then by investing in education, I speak from my point of view, and, interestingly, a colleague mentioned earlier, the increased population of the Irish managed to increase it. How could that have affected their increase, I don't know, most likely with education, with preschool institutions. I'm old enough to think differently, and I'm not even able to help some economic measures. It's one of the models. We now advocate a model of road construction, etc. The Irish started with high-tech technology. But to get back to our problems. I'm interested in what these investments are in health care and how much investments are made from this national school programme. What is given in this material can be relatively satisfactory because 29.70 and some percent of these funds go to health care. It could not be said, as it says in the material, that these are investments made by some income, because health care does not bring it, except it brings health, especially since we are an old country by population. However, something else is envisaged here, and I'm saying this to answer to people who are rebelling, who are in local self-government. The government is trying to urgently train a large number of ruined and devastated health homes, to hand them over to local self-government, in a decent manner. That's why big investments are needed, and I think the government and the Ministry are doing just fine. The second thing is that a relatively small part of it is said that a small amount of money goes to education investments, for education, only 3.4%, etc. This mainly refers to a student standard according to my analysis, which is good, but there is no means to help modernize the teaching of universities, to learn from the students themselves, etc., which would help to get that income back very quickly, which is the goal. All in all, these two elements are, however, acceptable to me and I think if the government implemented them in a way that doesn't make these doubts come out here, they would give results. That's where we should all support them, because even in local self-government, when it comes to health care and schooling, there's little politics. Health and education can't have any political interference, because we've been ideologically through times of communism. Now I don't believe we can win. The third reason I reported here is because the budget always gives consent to Serbia's Health Protection Institute. What's going on here? I've got a lot of objections here. The minister said about 67% of the tax money was charged in half a year. As for the contribution to health insurance, they go to 47% and 42%. Why is that? Here it is said - health insurance revenues would be more significant if financial tax discipline was fully secured and there is no escrow present, I don't understand what the escrow is, in the payment of contributions to the remuneration of employees. What does that mean? Is someone not doing their job? Then what is proposed? A strict control of drug consumption is proposed. So I don't owe any more, what's that do? He reports that doctors and nurses are complaining that the Institute is illegally insinuating day-to-day control matters about where what has been spent, as it has been spent, what the people call paperwork, and that for the basic task they should be doing, which is to devote themselves to a sick man, they don't have time. I think they should take care of that. I believe that this approach, to be honest, the allocation of these funds is absolutely acceptable from the DSS aspect and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29264	Thank you, Mr. Vojnovic. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, then Vladan Vukicevic, and then by Vjerica Radeta. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29265	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, budget rebalancing, or amending the 2006 Budget Law, is the result of the debate on the Law on the Budgetary System of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who left, disappeared in the middle of a discussion about this law, the moment we exposed him in another untruth he spoke, as far as Leskovac municipality is concerned, there are no projects there. Through several examples and with the direct announcement of Mr. Vukic and future president of the municipality of Dr. Goran Cvetanovic, I told him that several local communities submitted the project. One of these received funds from this established fund, which was introduced to the public through the media, a statement by ministers, direct visitation on television, in the RTS daily, as last night was the case with Dragan Koidinovic, a few days ago with Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, about what the state will do with the funds of the privatisation of "Mobtel", i.e. a state-run company that has been under the patronate of the Karic dynasty, i.e. Bogoljub and members of his family in refugee. How did this privatisation happen? Through public bidding, as the minister explained to us today, as if we hadn't seen it, and these funds are being incorporated into the Fund, as well as funds from the sale of the Vojvodina and Pannonian banks and everything that will be privatised in the country in the future. The national investment plan was created, so that citizens would know, by example, of the country, i.e. the Irish model, as the Irish did. The model and the way the funds are made is best known by the presidents of the municipalities, and this is what the SRS MPs have been talking about today. To the most extent, these are political projects. I'll explain that to you on the case, let's say, of a local community in the Arangelian municipality. In Arangelovac, the elected president of the municipality, the Serbian Radical, and the majority of the assembly - a public majority, which, of course, because of the acquisition of functions and, above all, the directorial and administrative posts, committed numerous abuses and violations of the law, with the blessing of Minister Loncar, obstructed the work, and it is working day and day, so here, and these days when the budget rebalancing is being prepared for that municipality, the elected president. When the president and members of the council themselves, in which he participates in the majority of the SRS, submitted in certain local communities, on the basis of this questionnaire that arrived in each municipality several months ago, certain projects, were responsible, for example, to a local community which is one of the larger areas of the Arandelovec, that these funds might be approved, and perhaps not. I see now that there are no items here, so they're not, because it's obviously animosity to all the radicals that are in power. The Serbian radicals, to the most extent, are given this on a spoon, under the pretext that it is not a good lab, are not good projects, that you do not have teams, you do not have people. Here, for example. In one municipality, the municipality of Zemun, you see it is impossible to reach a dinar from this famous and phantom national investment plan. In municipalities and cities such as Kragujevac, the mayor specifically brought to a small door a member of this organisation, a party G17, a certain Nebojsa Zdravkovic, as a member of the City Council in charge of co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia. So it's the one that, according to the cultural stories, is a good friend with Mladjan Dinkic and has an institutional and non-institutional influence on him. He will hand-in-hand to Stevanovic, then to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and now to my fellow citizens in the town of Kragujevac, instead of the elected mayor, who is completely incapable of doing anything smart and developmental for a city that has a budget of over four billion euros and for so many people burdened with so many problems, above all, problems of unemployment and undeveloped municipal infrastructure in the suburbs and villages, he addresses Zdravkovic, who, visiting the media and in various local TV studios, speaks of how much funds will be granted to Kragujevac from the National Investment Plan. It bids from 10m to 36m euros. To remind you that this so influential Zdravkovic, the same promoter who collected signatures from state institutions, after which he probably ate them all for breakfast, to ban the SRS, came to an amount of 18 million. Then he says, "I'm a guarantee," he imagines. Well, the party did not win 1.5% of the votes in Kragujevac, they do not have one single committee member. They have this Zdravkovic who is now Stevanović's pendant, which says: "I am your guarantee, the citizens of Kragujevac, that the money will come, according to projects which the Kragujevci, or the city administration, have asked for it to come." No one is a guarantee for any single dinar that is required as a charity for Mladjan Dinkic to share with Serbian citizens, because citizens themselves should be a guarantee to the state -- that they are loyal citizens, that they pay the tax neatly, if they have where to pay it, after this size and this kind of tax back six years. They, of course, rightly expect the funds from the Republic and local budget to be returned through the arrangement, through the municipal infrastructure, through everything they need, and for health care, and for education, and for economic development, for entrepreneurship, for everything that stands here, but there's nothing. These are ways of deception in election campaigns and skillful manipulation of individual owners. A long time ago, the people read Dinkic's intentions, as he was still governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, after that five-octobaric coup, made one video in which everything is beautiful and colorful, children go abroad, travel, some school, have new cars, apartments, houses, summers, everything is nice, yet, music background with birds' cricket. Where are we today and where are Dinkic and the company? Where he lives, where Governor Jelasic lives, and where other citizens of Serbia live, who may believe, but hardly any of this will happen, because on the sides that talk about projects for Kosovo and Metohija, where the most endangered citizens, who live seven years under occupation, no one on the basis of these attached, or allegedly approved projects, can believe that one day it will be true. In addition, I can imagine what manipulations will look like if resources are ever transferred to planned users. Here, let's say, funds have been planned for the development of entrepreneurship, one of which is that I am not looking for exactly what position it is now, but it stands here, in the KIM division, in the southern Serbian province, which Minister Dinkic today says is a burden for the republican budget, more specifically, that we have a billion-euro burden for Serbia and, as he said, 600m euros for Kosovo and Metohija. What's that? Is this the southern Serbian province and cradle of Serbia, for which every normal and honorable citizen, every political party and every responsible man must fight to the end? Isn't that what the national consensus is about? It's easy for you to talk, I'm talking to the very ones, or the minister who escaped, when there are declarations or resolutions on the agenda where there are some of your speeches that might call for such a thing. But when it comes to a particular situation where these people in the budget have got nothing from what they're promised, we have to face it and see who's cheating and lying to these people. Two and a half years ago, tragic nights 17, 18 and 19 March 2004, five kilometers from Kosovo Mitrovica, in the village of Piggara, 53 families were left without their houses. Wasn't it promised, quickly, by Mladjan Dinkic and this capitalite Velje, that these people would be faster and better built houses? There's no houses, there's nothing. Just ask these people, ask our colleague Kragovic, how many of them have returned there. To make evil bigger, people are in fear and panic over the occupier's decision to open a bridge on Ibra and that it can cross from one to the south to the northern side of Kosovo's Mitrovica unhindered. Not to mention all the documents we've brought here and the disclosure of previous-term abuses. For example, the construction of non-existent septic caves, so there stood a sum of 550,000 dinars, and a non-existent home of health, and everywhere, just a little by little, everyone takes what they need from those who are in power, above all those who are obedient to Dinkic, and the citizens get nothing. Then he tells us about how we live well, how the state is in prosperity, how the social product grows, and in this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you who are a little more happy, you know, ate it here and drank it, can laugh and rejoice. On the 64th and 65th pages, you have divisions concerning two bodies that you have to explain who they are and what they are, because it says - the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is not currently available in Serbia. After a Separatist referendum on 21 May this year, held in Montenegro, we do not have the two ministries. There are two people who, of course, if there is justice, may be slow, but available, to respond because they are falsely represented. One as foreign minister, this is the one whose feet and knees have been kneeling from a woman for so many years, and the other, who says he is the defence minister. Meanwhile, Vojislav Kostunica, those two people, the NN, would say some in a criminal report when someone falsely presents themselves, but they have names and last names, calls for them to attend a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia held in Kragujevac. The minister who falsely presents himself, or "Minister", is visiting a military factory. You go one step further, I mean you, gentlemen of the Ministry, since there is no Minister of Finance, and for the still non-existent Ministry of Defence, in a section called the National Investment Plan, for the Ministry of Defence, despite the fact that, according to all the intelligence structures and findings of foreign agents, the state in certain segments is infested as Swiss cheese, you write what will be remounted in the Army to the money of the National Investment Fund. I am commanded by honor and morality not to read any of the things that stand here in the official document. Each of you, and all the MPs, I assume, are reservers and served the army, knows it's a military secret and that no one in any country would write it. What are the exact markings of equipment and facilities to be remounted from the National Investment Plan? Is that what that fake Defense Minister gave you to write? To make evil even bigger, we are facing a continuation today (I am very interested in where the finance minister is, and you were obliged to keep us informed, Mr Markovic, why he is not here) of the hack and the haranga of all honorable and honest people and of the Serbian patriots, all under some excuse that we must respect this or that. You kneel, you crawl, you do whatever you want, but leave the people alone and get off his back once and for all. I speak, first of all, of a minister like this who does not respect the National Assembly. Tonight, on all the news shows, starting with the B92s, who were the first to knock, and through the RTS Journal and other televisions, it was released as a breaking news that something had happened that they couldn't accept, in fact, kneeling down their knees from their employers, namely, that today a daily newspaper published a poster, which I have in my hands. It's a really nice poster, with wonderful people, with senior officers, future officers, pits, with a military parade held recently in Belgrade. On that poster, a citizen holds a picture or poster, I don't know if this is on canvas or on paper, anyway, with the image of famous General Ratko Mladic. The young men, the officers, who go to the military parade, or one of them, passing by the photograph, almost in natural size, General Ratko Mladic, saluts. You all who are here, in session, and you from this parliamentary majority, you should know that. I would not be surprised at the government's extraordinary session, and perhaps it is in progress now, because a spokesman for that villain, Carla del Ponte, has already called, so directly in Dnevnik, the one headed by General Mladic's action plan has appeared, and the Ministry of Defence, with false Minister Zoran Stankovic, who says it is amazing, will see what happened. They were afraid of Carla and those who were their employers, and this young man here, who is an honorary officer and who represents an example for future generations, did the most honorable thing. Young people in Serbia, these children who are yet to stand up for the army and those who are raised in a patriotic spirit know that he has done the right thing. His parents know that, too, and some of them are happy to have such a son, but you don't know it, and they don't know it, and they don't know it, like Stankovic, who, faster or better, pulled him to question the whole thing, and tonight, as a breaking news, has also reported this television called B92 and RTS, because such young people and such people, first of all, who know that prices of real value, are going to represent Serbia's future. This young man, who, according to the news of the mentioned television, has been suspended or will be prosecuted against him, has not saluted Jamie Shea or the villain Javier Solana, but a Serb officer and general who wanted to defend national interests. So much for you and those who make such plans for Serbia. All that you represent as the National Investment Plan is just another hoax, and what you're doing tonight and this hack on Serbian patriots, who doesn't stop, will go to your senses, and the people won't forgive you in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29266	Did I get that right? Since Mr. Vucicevic is not here, and you are going in alternately, the first word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, then Milan Škrbić, Vladimir Homan and, finally, Verica Radeta. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, those who support and those who dispute the proposal receive a change of word. In case some MP isn't here, there's a rotation going on, that's all it's about. Here you go, Mr. Bushettic, 15 minutes for your parliamentary group, and three are speakers, so your colleagues don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, for the SPS, the most important issue in this budget rebalancing is the issue of the allocation of funds for the maintenance and implementation of the referendum, and all about the adoption of a new constitution. The new constitution should not be adopted because the current constitution is bad, on the contrary, the current constitution is excellent, it has solved all issues, the current constitution has united Serbia, but through the new constitution we want to confirm our determination that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia and that no one has the right to take our territory. It is a positive, activist move and the people and all political parties. Whether this new constitution will preserve Kosovo and Metohija, it is very uncertain because the international factor, those who want to take away Kosovo and Metohija, do this inexorably, resolutely, independently of who is in power in Serbia, whether Slobodan Milosevic, Kostunica or someone third. Milosevic was an excellent defender of Kosovo and Metohija, an excellent defender of the Serbian people through the Drina and was therefore attacked by all weapons, both on the outside and on the inside. The outside has been attacked precisely by these same representatives of the international community who today are doing everything to take our territory, and inside it has been attacked, above all, by the opposition, who, for the sake of a piece of power, has been prepared to sell out every national and state interest. After all, how do we defend Kosovo and Metohija today? Kosovo and Metohija are defending, above all, Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 is the only guarantee of the survival of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, and therefore they are wrong to say that the resolution is a capitulation, and many have talked about it. The resolution is the only straw of salvation in our negotiations. Who's the creator of Resolution 1244? The creator is just the late President Slobodan Milosevic. Many analysts in Serbia, even Minister Dinkic, have often said these months, including years, that Kosovo was lost, that Milosevic lost it. Of course that's not true, but why are they saying that? That's what they say because strangers tell them to talk like that. Simply, foreigners wanted to satanicize the one who defended Serbia the most, who defended Kosovo and Metohija, which was Slobodan Milosevic. That's why I want to say today that Milosevic has firmly defended the country at all times, and may it be his eternal glory because he was the greatest Serbian statesman and eventually laid down his life in Serbia's defence. What happens today, six years after the coup and the revolution that happened in Serbia? What changed about the international factor, in the international community? I am saying all of this for the reason that we will most likely vote for rebalancing, because it is important to bring the constitution, but only in the sense that once again the Serbian definition is confirmed that Kosovo will at all costs defend and that we will not agree, at least the most important political factors, to any abduction of territory. We didn't get anything today, so many years later. Here, the President of the European Commission, a few weeks ago, told Kosovo and Metohija that Kosovo should join the European Union. Well, how can Kosovo enter the European Union if it is not a state? So already some representatives of the European Union aim to make Kosovo and Metohija a state and join the European Union, not to speak of Marty Ahtisaari, who said the Serbian people are collaterally responsible. We kept saying -- there will be no individual responsibilities after The Hague, all of them will be transferred to collective responsibility and they will charge all of this hugely, because this project of breaking Serbia, stealing territory, is not over and the project remains in force. After all, Dinkic was here today, and I've heard it at some other gatherings, that everyone praises Romania and Bulgaria that they are good, so there are great results, so they enter the European Union. Both Bulgaria and Romania are far from Serbia per parameter. But obviously there are no criteria in the European Union, there are no rules, there are bosses. It's just that they all have the advantage over us. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Budget Law, in addition to this key issue that is important to us from the SPS, I want to say a few more things. First of all, there is no reason for any great praise, regardless of what Minister Dinkic said about how good everything is now, how much money he has. The foreign exchange deficit remains high and stands at more than three billion dinars. Export coverage is only 43%. The foreign exchange reserves are large, but we need to know that these reserves are not from production, from export. Anyway, or at least a few billion are about saving our people. So the money is drawn from the straws, and they're drawn from the great propaganda that happens every day on all TV stations in Serbia: don't put the straws in these banks, and as these banks behave, we all know well. The interest on these Serbian funds, or the funds of the Serbian people, is 3-5 per cent, and when credit is taken with them, the interest is 30 per cent. What is it about a kind of robbery of this people? The national plan itself provides significant means for both transport and economic development. It is our opinion that the absolute priority should have economic development. Everything comes from economic development. On the other hand, another question is being asked. If that money is mostly from the sale of Mobtel, various banks, Pannonian, Vojvodjanski, what happens when we sell it all? In Serbia, there is still NIS, EPS, Telekom. When all this is sold, what do we do next and how do we proceed? Because, and when Minister Dinkic talks about the social product, so he says -- now the social product has grown, so I don't know how much per capita we have, the question is, who's sharing that product? If it's shared by hundreds of tycoons, 10 or 50,000 rich people, what about a mass that has nothing to do with anything? Today in Serbia, we have a million unemployed people who do not have a great prospect of finding a job, because simply, the state is not behind the main project, and the main project is economic development. We also have an additional 5.5 billion in budget rebalancing for the pension fund. I want to point out again, that money is tied, first of all, to our amendment, the SPS amendment submitted here in the Assembly, where we said that the average pension in Serbia cannot be below 60% of the average salary. If it hadn't been for that amendment, now the pensions would be even less, and they're very small anyway, about 13,000 dinars, and, of course, with that money, they literally can't survive. Finally, a special issue is related to the financial plan of health insurance. If we have in health insurance this surplus that Minister Dinkic is talking about, a six-billion surplus, then why are the salaries very low? The doctor's average salary is about 35,000 dinars. The availability of treatment is very poor. Today, a number of diagnostics are waiting three months, five months, six months. I would especially like to point to the unsustainability of the situation in dental services. We've seen that in the financial plan for dental services, about two billion 900 million dinars are foreseen. Three thousand dentists and dentists are overnight, so to speak, out of a job. They receive some minimum salaries of 8,000 dinars, and on the other hand, we've damaged the citizens. You know, for many people, there are 500 dinars, 1,000 dinars of big money for dental treatment, for tooth extraction. Simply, this issue had to be resolved in another way because a hundred million, as long as it takes to solve the matter of three thousand employees in dental services, are no money, given the surplus and the large money that Minister Dinkic is talking about. And, finally, I want to say that elections in Serbia can take place in 15 days, in 20 days, and in the month, but they can't happen in December. In December, it envisions formalisation of Kosovo and Metohija's abduction by foreign factors and only those in the service of a foreign factor, or those who do not understand the political situation in Serbia, can discuss the December elections. The Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica holds a special responsibility for all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29268	Thank you, although I call the election, Mr. Bushettic, don't threaten me, please. Ambassador Milan Škrbić has a word. Here you go, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been listening to a lot of exposure this afternoon, some who praise the budget, some who criticize it. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this budget and therefore look at it critically. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, I need to talk about something we haven't talked about so far. I need to mention something very important. Of course, it refers to the National Investment Plan. My good friend, the President of Pozega Municipality, Mr Milan Stevovic spoke very well and quality of it, and I will add that when we talk about the morale of those who are without congregation consideration, which is a big mistake, they made that plan to distribute these funds, we cannot say that it is some criminal-legal guilt or something like that. It is, in fact, socio-political and, above all, moral guilt and responsibility, and responsibility is a presumption of guilt. I'm sure the people of Serbia will agree with this finding, and so will you here. The National Investment Plan and the privatisation of Mobtel, which Minister Dinkic spoke of today, the government boasts of all mouths, are tightly tied. I'm sure since I've spent my whole life in business and been in responsible business, that privatising state property is not a condition of successful development, so, gentlemen of the government, there's no point in setting it up, and you're setting it up. Here's an example that Serbian citizens should listen to well, although it's 21:00 and 10 minutes to figure out what it's really about. I'm talking about privatizing Mobtel. Recently, Norwegian Telenor bought the company Mobtel, where the majority owner was the Serbian government. The majority owner of Telenor is the Government of Norway. Her participation in Telenor, according to internet data from 9 August 2006, was about 54%, therefore, higher than that of the Serbian government in Mobtel. The question that is being raised in itself, and what can be asked about this, is why would Mobtel's business be more successful if his majority owner is the Norwegian government and not the Serbian government? Why does Norway not think of the privatisation of Telenor, while in Serbia the sale of Mobtela is interpreted as a major success of the current state government and administration? No one asked today, and this government boasts of it. There are other opinions, not only that this privatisation is extremely well done and that the inflow of funds is great. These funds are related to the National Investment Plan. When we talk about the distribution of these funds, I can't help but ask what about the resources of those who got them through this plan, and they can't use them because they weren't ready, they don't have projects, they don't even have current ideas how to spend them? There are a lot of municipalities that are like that. They were simply surprised by the report that received municipalities on the allocation of these funds from the National Investment Plan. I ask, regardless of what Minister Dinkic said today, will these funds be returned to the National Investment Plan fund, and later rerouted to where they will be more efficient, not to stand, in something where there are projects, or not? Minister Dinkic said there will be no transfer of funds from one project to another. I'm asking, from the same projects, from the same area, will what's not spent be transferred to where there are investments? Why am I saying this? It's best to show for example. It's an investment project in the field of sports. In this part of IV, when it comes to sports halls and gymnasiums, in Apatin, where I come from, the municipality is courageously in charge of credit lines, before the idea of the National Investment Plan, and with over 150m euros entered into an investment that is almost finished, the opening of two sports halls in two local communities, plus, from budget funds, 30 million dinars for funding sports and youth, in order to have a healthy nation, in order to take the children from the cafes to sports halls. We regularly filed the documentation, on time, followed the site, and we didn't get any single dinars, and many other municipalities need to get funding, but at this point they're not ready, because they didn't have official projects or the ability to pass these projects on to the Ministry of Finance, and they got the honorary word of the funds. They were surprised to get it. Second case. When we talk about Section 12, they see those who are following it today, and few, apart from Serbian radicals, about function 410, the economic classification of 551 is about financing industrial zones and parks. I was really surprised by the division of those funds. In the municipality from which I come, the goods-transport centre, the finished projects, the positive feasibility studies, the municipalities invested a lot, a 210m-euro project, has interested foreign investors, and the government has so far helped only in one part - to build roads. Of course we delivered complete documentation here, and we didn't get anything. It's really weird, because the government has already invested in the road part of the road that is supposed to connect the goods-transport centre to the industrial zone. We didn't get any funding. Maybe because the SRS there participates actively in the government. We can continue to cite examples, talk and ask why the National Investment Plan's resources are not focused on the development of entrepreneurship and businesses so as to employ as many people as possible, so that young experts do not go abroad, and we are constantly ready to criticise that, both young and elderly, who have lost their jobs. Statistics say 10,000 companies and 20,000 stores equal to 50 to 60,000 employees. The budget doesn't touch that. It is clear to everyone in this Serbia that the basic problem is that the economy is not working and that more and more people are out of work. Today we read in the newspaper a survey on where the National Investment Plan should be invested. It is said that 36% of respondents believe that these are investments in the economy, and this is not here. Speaking of tax collection, Minister Dinkic touched on these topics, saying that tax collection is good, that it has been increased, and yet some 5.5 billion are missing for the pension split. This will be replaced by a rebalance to get to the pensioners, and, on the other hand, the same pensioners we're scrambling, not us, but the ministry whose department of inspection services, some other things, and this is an opportunity to say a few things about it. The Ministry of Finance formed the so-called so-called The IRS' mobile teams. Have you ever heard of such teams? That's how they introduce themselves on the ground, the tax administration's mobile teams. Here's a memo I got to read, I'm not gonna read it all, just for a little while. It's a memo from the owners of these stores, people who have one or two small stores of mixed goods, who simply survive, but employ three more, four people. These mobile teams were both in Apatino and elsewhere. I've talked to fellow MPs from other municipalities, they're closing those shops. It was mobile control, and it won't make an inventory, regardless of what the merchants who were found at that moment claim that everything is fine, that everything is right and that they're asking for inventory to be made. The answer is that these simply don't have time, they don't want to deal with it. The control was carried out, they fully respected the provisions of the Law on fiscal cash registers, which is evident from the record made up of the same control. I went there personally to see for myself, since this memo came to the municipality, from a certain number of those owners of small objects that survive, because they didn't know what to do. The marginal irregularity refers to part of the debt sale, and we all know that because of the chronicity of certain categories of population, to their own damage, these traders come out to meet consumers who at the time of purchase do not have the means of payment, i.e. they buy goods on the famous debt, which is settled during the next payment of pensions or wages. So that's mostly the lowest, poor part of the population, and that's the pensioners. It is noted that any such purchase is recorded through the fiscal register, i.e. VAT is paid, although it is not charged by the buyer. Someone could check and control what I'm saying. A growing number of merchants and store owners and businesses for which the process and the solution of Minister Dinkic means the following - shops are being closed, and must pay large penalties as well. I think it's logical in today's times of crisis, when poverty is great and when people don't work, if there's already some tax discipline being conducted, and I agree that it has to exist – that double measures cannot be applied. Companies can either close down or be punished, but not both. They can open shops, let themselves work, so they can pay the fines. He can't do both.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29270	Please finish your presentation after the time has elapsed for your parliamentary group. (The emissary thanks and leaves the pay phone. I thank you very much, Mr. Squirt. The word has a folk MP Vladimir Homan, then Velimir Simonovic, then Rajko Baralic. I'd say you have 25 minutes at your disposal, too. We have two other colleagues, and the Socialist Party of Serbia has only four minutes and two registered MPs, while the DSS has 52 minutes and one registered speaker. Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29271	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's budget rebalance is on the agenda, and I would briefly refer to my colleague's exposure. As for the mobile teams of tax collectors and tax collectors, I haven't heard or seen any businessmen and merchants complaining about taxes, which are those who respect and apply the law. Only those who want to hide something complain. To introduce tax discipline, which is what you're up for, so we have to respect the law. As far as budget rebalances are concerned, our public has been accustomed for many years to the autumn period for budget rebalances, but the way to increase the volume of this budget to cover the deficit was such that increased public spending, patched up deficits here and there, increased salaries of civil servants and others. As for pension funds, many forget that the last few years and today pensions are regularly paid, and you know what it was like before 2000. Pensioners know that best. That's why it's not right to mention those things about pensioners. The budget rebalancing we've known for a long time has not been a surprise to anyone, because citizens are used to state officials spending money on the team. They spent everything they needed on their services, municipalities, public enterprises and ministries, so it was approved and allocated. It was not rare for individual ministries to spend the entire budget by half a year, and by the end of the year they spent that much. I will set an example of such a ministry, led by a deputy deputy president of one of the opposition parties, which has been an opposition since 2000 and in the future. I think there's a colleague in the Roasts now, as she said this afternoon. Speaking of roasting, a newly-roasted MP also led the ministry, but he liked to spend state money in cafes, so now in the Assembly, behind immunity, he must hide himself from the hand of justice. Today is a completely different situation when it comes to rebalancing, which such people cannot understand. There's no extra money to buy apartments for the various merited officials and others, which has been a habit so far. There is no extra money for spending in catering facilities, for example, "Zelturs". Today, Finance Minister Dinkic suggests that money, which has been blended and poured into the state register thanks to record foreign investments, but also to a much better and more regular collection of taxes and contributions, as the order has been introduced, is invested in something else entirely. There's one thing we talked about today, and that's paying off the debts. We talked a little bit about it, because those who were only in debt, and mostly with citizens, are now talking about foreign exchange savings, which they baptized "old foreign savings"; they never returned it, and we are returning it now. They cannot understand that debts must be paid to people in the country and to those we owe abroad. The second thing I'm going to talk about is the National Investment Plan project designed by Mr Dinkic, and the government unanimously adopted it. It is the best sign, how much skeptics and villains will talk about, that Serbia is finally on the move. This plan is the result of all the difficult decisions and moves made by the government, and the finance minister has preceded it. It is proof that we are entering the final stage of transition, where every citizen will begin to feel the benefit of what has been done. It is also the result of all those last, difficult years of denial, which our citizens have agreed to. I'm talking about the waivers for the reason that the budget was being implemented rationally and planically over the previous years, and it didn't go to a one-time increase in wages and pensions, so tomorrow what happens? That's how it was done before and thought of it that way tomorrow. I think tomorrow, when all those big and small projects that are approved under the National Investment Plan are realized, and they're about 2,000, they're really coming. It's just the first round. Those municipalities and individuals who didn't give up on time or didn't give up their projects at all will have opportunities for that. These projects and the implementation of the National Investment Plan will mean joint profits and improvements for all citizens of Serbia, and many of them will remain for generations behind us. By the end of next year, over a billion and 200m euros will be invested. Such things will also be seen in this country that has not seen such investments for decades, and when she saw them -- in Tito's time, it was thanks to foreign loans. These investments will, of course, lead to economic growth and development, and hence to what much is said here, to increasing employment and living standards. I will mention Belgrade as my city. The projects envisioned for implementation by the end of next year are worth around 550m euros. Imagine Belgrade with a built bypass, with a new bridge built over the Danube near Vinca, with a secure Pančeva Bridge and Gazel, which will be reconstructed, with new and cheap apartments, a reconstructed Clinical Centre and health homes and imagine the Temple of St. Sava at Vrakar in full glory. Imagine all of this, because soon you won't have to imagine, since all of this will be seen as being achieved through the National Investment Plan and through Belgrade's authorities, which will also participate in funding these projects. Of course, critics always have and these are those who boast that they are the most in the room, and they are proportionally 10% of the number of MPs they have. They usually only know how to talk, and they don't know how to work. When I look at it, they leave nothing behind to convince us otherwise. We will leave behind a more modern, more beautiful and happy Serbia, thanks to the hard work of ministers from G17 plus and the work of the entire Serbian government. It will also be thanks to the citizens of Serbia, who have given us confidence to make this happen and to invest their money because, I remind you, the money from the budget is the money of the Serbian citizens. With that money we invest in the future of all of us and our children. History will remember critics by the phenomenon that they could have done a lot without doing anything positive, just bad. As for G17 plus, just that we did nothing else, we are proud that, in this term, we have largely contributed to the idea and to the implementation of the National Investment Plan and that we have put Serbia, which has been going backwards or standing in place for so many years, into the first gear and added gas, and we will not stop all the way to Europe. So, Serbia, there's no going back, go ahead!
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29272	Thank you, and there is no sequel to a five-minute break. The next MPs will be, please, just a moment to give my notice, sorry for the tone, so the MPs Velimir Simonović, Rajko Baralić, Istvan Takac, Milisav Petronijevic, Ivan Zivadinović, remain on the list of registered MPs, and before that, they will have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vjerica Radet. There is no basis for any replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure, the Verse of Radeta appeared. Before that, a five-minute break. So, at 21 hours and 35 minutes, we're back to work. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's MP Verica Radeta has a word, then Velimir Simonovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29274	Although we haven't worked in Parliament for a long time, or there were no sessions, I thought the Rules of Procedure had not been forgotten, and therefore, Mr President, I object, because tonight is not the first time, but today, in the course of the day, more than once has been broken by the Rules of Procedure. Some young man Dinkic's spokesmans, who, at least officially, did not appear here. I know they didn't care when we caught the minister here in telling a lie and deception, when he tried to deceive the citizens of Leskovec by claiming that Leskovac, or the municipality of Leskovac, did not provide projects to compete for this national investment plan. On that occasion, the minister insulted all local self-government, all citizens of local self-government, as he showed how he would decentralise himself. He would do it by, as he said, not being able to do it there, only Mr Dinkic is able to create projects, he is the only one capable of organising tenders. I believe that no one is more capable than him when it comes to the percentage of tendering, but that is how Dinkic would regulate this issue, he clearly said tonight. Then someone who doesn't know the geography, who doesn't even know Serbian cities, let alone villages, then says that someone in Pečevac is instead of in Pečevci. And then he mentions some roasting, someone ate the roast. I don't know if this gentleman reminded himself of that meeting of the board of G17 plus in Arangelovac, when under the 3rd agenda there was roasting, pigs, lamb roasting, or, at the time of the big post, they eventually remembered the fish. It was 4th period and drinks and games, etc., but I find it more interesting that no one after Natasha Jovanovic commented on this poster. I purposely show it because at the service of the European public service, they deliberately pulled the picture, this portrait, which Natasha was showing. Meanwhile, we have received information that this honorary young man, who was saluting the painting of General Mladic, who showed respect for Serbian uniform, Serbian hero, officer, young man who was certainly from those who were willing to defend Milica Rakic and Sanju from Varvarin, a military police sergeant and that he was employed by the Military Academy by tonight. What's going on out there tonight -- we don't know, but we know it's a general mess, that there's a comprehensive investigation going on. We really don't understand why it's so terrible that one sergeant who has a paw on his head says hello to another officer, who was also photographed with a paw on his head. Not that it's not scary, it's normal, it's common, well, it's a patriotic act. Unlike someone who just said that Serbia will remember taking a minister and his party and rewarding him with an entire 3%, I am sure that Serbia has a future along with a Serbian radical break and with such officers who know that they appreciate the Serb soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29275	Thank you. Velimir Simonovic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29276	Just to encourage you and tell you that I'm not going to use the time available to me, about 50 minutes, on the contrary, I just want to look back at two or three things from this rebalance. First of all, I'm very glad that the investments are finally on their way to the Old Mountain. Here are two places in the Ministry - road regulation, money for the municipality of Književac, for the municipality of Piroth, and there is also in the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. There, a ski resort should be built, a large winter sports centre formed, as well as invested in municipal and energy infrastructure. Not to read the numbers, they're in this budget, and I'm not bothering you with the numbers. What is important is that it is given to other municipalities in the region of Timoko and that what is given is 365 euros per capita for eastern Serbia. That's very good, because that part of Serbia has been quite neglected in these years, especially about ten years when something was not particularly invested there. Now it's on. There's no such thing as a significant sports center without being monitored by infrastructure. There's a lot of jobs for investors, because roads are in very bad shape. Then, building hotels and other facilities that necessarily follow that kind of obligation. Since this is all about tourism, we all seem to agree that tourism is a very important business branch. There is a high probability that a significant number of citizens who have left the Old Mountain will return, because they will be able to do some work there, especially if they have gone to Zaječar, Književec, the Borski mine, etc. They ran out of work there, so they'll have a chance to get back to their jobs and their properties on the Old Mountain, to deal with some jobs that could be profitable. I would refer to another ministry that is particularly interesting to me, but before that, please, if I weren't too oriented, so I'm just talking about the Old Mountain, I'd mention one important thing from Central Forest. It's this part about the Arangelovac, the League, the Mines, the Milanese, the Lazarets, which is very interesting. There's a village called Trudelj, which is over 50, maybe even 80 men over 50. Some are even under 30. Many of them have families, and many of these younger ones would start families, but their big problem is the road, which is slightly shorter than 9 km. This village produces up to 1,500 liters of milk per day, but it is very difficult to transport. About a hundred homes are right by the road, and another hundred miles away from that road. There are beautiful landscapes, the slopes of the Mines, they could deal with tourism. Many households have quite decent houses and with little adaptations they could also receive very demanding tourists. If we consider both Belanovica and those two or three villages around, when someone comes in there to spend ten days as a tourist, they can make one-day trips to several sides. On one side is Bukulja, Orasac, Oplenac, Topola. On the other hand, the link via Lazarets to Belgrade, the Vruci Banja, Valjevo, the Kellia monastery in Lelici, Brankovina, all interesting places, further down the Rudnik and Milanovac, to Takova. There are many historical sites in the area, monuments, monasteries, but, of course, that tourists might be able to tour, there should be very good roads, as this is usually done by their own cars. Although I see that Milan's municipality as a municipality has also received funds for the restoration of roads, I think it could be helped by the Public Undertaking for the Ways of Serbia and that this trip, if it can't be done this autumn, but by spring it will be done. That would mean a lot not only for that one village, but for that whole part of the forest. Something very important has come out at the Ministry of Science. There is one item that reads like this – "capital equipment in physics and astronomy", around 212 million. This is extremely important, firstly, which is a very important science, and as far as astronomy is concerned, we have one of the oldest scientific institutions in Serbia, it has made very significant discoveries. She has an important service, it's a service of exact time, which for almost 15 years doesn't work or works very badly. I guess we shouldn't be talking about how important it is for a country to have a service of exact time – for telecommunications, for radio, television, military, hydrometeorology, etc., it's extremely important that the country has a service of exact time. They need more modern equipment, and I hope from the part that's supposed to happen here. We have time at the Institute for Precious Metals and Measures, but this office is not invited to run the service, it can only be done by an astronomical observatory. I am pleased to conclude that it is likely from this budget that they will now be able to realise that, finally, as a modern state, we will also get a modern service of exact time. In the end, I would refer to critics and our colleagues who are here, but also to a considerable number of critics who are out of this room. So-called economists or quasi economists are constantly criticising the government. Some economists listen for more than 30 years, tell the same stories, probably learnt the economy at the "Capital" of Karl Marks and can't understand that since World War II, economic science has been very advanced, and they haven't actually been able to track it. Among those critics there are ignorance, indignation, evil intentions, there are only criticisms and the facts are not important to them. Like, they don't mind there's surpluses in the budget. How would you react if it was a deficit? They're having a hard time with the Investment Plan. What if there wasn't an investment? They fear that inflation will increase, even though some ministers have repeatedly declared that none of it will go to total consumption. I'll list an anecdote that's also bound to the name of the great philosopher Kant. When he presented some of his hypotheses in some society, one of the conversators would say - Mr. Professor, your hypotheses don't agree with the facts, and he would answer - so much worse by the facts. So that's how some critics of this government behave, the facts don't matter to them. Among critics there are such people who are not up to the job at all, so their criticism is often at an incredibly low intellectual level.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29277	I thank the MP Simonovic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Professor Simonovic, thank you for mentioning the Old Mountain, and that's nice. A valuable Chacan, Bora Corba, wrote a long time ago: “I remember it was a practice to read Engels and Marks, I read Hegel and Kant, it was a more difficult variant. ” As for Trudella, I thank you for that, too. I was born nearby, it's the Kacer region, it's the border village of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. While you were talking about it here, precisely your colleagues, Djurovic and my esteemed fellow citizen, Petkovic, the MPs, in Gornji Milanovac, explain that everything will be ruined there if they are not in a position to exercise power in the coming period. So, I suggest we agree together and form a normal government there and that Trudelj, or Kacherski end works well. This is what I wanted to say a few things on the Finance Committee today. I am really surprised that in this budget rebalancing, under the Investment National Plan, there is not a single dinar defined for the Rzava regional water system. I am surprised that in the National Assembly of five municipalities, therefore, from Lucan, Cačka, Gornji Milanovac, Arlja and Požega, there are a dozen MPs sitting here; two are the presidents of the municipality, one is the vice president of the municipality, one is the Secretary-General of New Serbia, one is a high-ranking official in another party, etc. That's how I understand the Investment Programme. I've submitted an amendment to that. Dear colleagues, the MPs from the Committee on Agriculture once had, I would say, the honour of being guests of the Rzav regional water system. It's a system that's invested $137 million so far. It is a system with a capacity of 1,200 liters per second for users, 350,000 inhabitants in these five municipalities, a system that has been exploited since 1993. Its first phase was completed, which means that it uses raw water from the temporary water supply, so it takes water from the quick flow of Rzava and it is necessary to build a second phase of this system, which is the dam on the profile of Svrchkovo, upstream of the current water supply, which would provide another 1,200 liters of water in a second and until 2070, permanently solve all the problems of these five municipalities when it comes to water supply. There is a third stage, that I'm not talking about it right now, is not an opportunity, is not a topic, but I'm surprised that none of these municipalities, especially Cacachak, the city I live in, which is responsible for this system, because 61% of the total investment financed from Cačka, did not offer this as a project. I can't accept that the Investment National Programme is funded by jackals in Chačka, although it's a good thing that people don't step on mud without funding a project like this. It's a regional water system, please. It's a water-based facility that doesn't exist anywhere in Southeast Europe. So more than 50 hours travels one drop of water from Arilj to Gornji Milanovac. Water is now treated with chlorine and ozone and we do not have the right to throw ourselves in this way, not entering into the value of the projects proposed, the national treasure achieved from privatisation, which is the source of this plan, as well as the international loans and budgets, therefore, from the most qualitative assets that exist in one country. So please, given that I have submitted an amendment to this, that fellow MPs accept it. I suggested that, otherwise, it is a huge number, it needs another 70m euros, in the next year from the Investment Plan, to invest 25m euros in this system, because it is totally unacceptable that (I understand what needs and governments and campaigns are, we are people dealing with politics) huge financial resources are placed in the investment maintenance of a large number of objects. It can be solved by local self-government in a different way. People will understand what I'm talking about, and those who have financed the system so far, and those who use it. To make evil bigger, in the book that we received today, which is presented here as a key document on the basis of which we are discussing, the regional water system Rzav is not mentioned in competition with 25 systems. I have to say that those who did this know nothing about it. I only apologize for the harsh words. So to mention systems that so far have invested several hundred thousand euros, or two or three million euros, compared to what I'm talking about is either a matter of ignorance or rusty intentions. I also have to say that municipalities have no interest in supporting what I'm talking about, because then they would create a financial commitment in their budgets for the next few years, but citizens have an interest, and they represent citizens. I want to say, and I end up with, that the Rzav regional water system provides 350,000 inhabitants, at this point, five municipalities and two districts, the highest quality drinking water in Serbia. Next, after him, is the system of the cell, so then we can talk about those that are now starting and not finished, such as Barius, Rowni and many others. Only emergency water supplies are provided here for Kikinda, Zrenjanin and some other places. I just want to ask where these people have been for 100 years. How is it possible that a local self-government in 100 years has not provided a single liter of healthy drinking water for its inhabitants? It's their basic job. It cannot be that now those who have not invested a single dollar or a dollar in this should be rewarded, that they now expect such elegantly these problems to be solved, exclusively from budget funds. That's not fair. Those who did it when it was time should be rewarded because they saw far away, which they saw more and better than others, and those who did nothing should be helped to solve the problem, but they have to do it in a way that separates some of it. These five municipalities I'm talking about here in this system have made full eight years out of self-dependencies, 2% of the communal fees and taxes, and Serbia's water and electricity industry 45% of all that is invested in this. Once again, I ask your support when we discuss details. I have proposed an amendment, the minister today told the Finance Committee that it is not possible, but that it is possible when a new budget is adopted. It's no problem to think about it either way, but I remind you, there's a colleague and a colleague here who knows I've been talking about this for five years, that no ministry, no finance, no water industry, no agriculture, because that's where these funds should be found, this issue has never been answered. I invite you to one day come to Ariel, where the water factory is located, to see what's going on, to see how it works, and to really, without any further argument, understand what I'm talking about here. As Andric wrote in "The Bridge of Zepa": "A white snowflake has landed there from the sky", so the water factory in the former junk seems to have landed in Aryl. We did everything possible to avoid being thirsty and to have our children drink healthy water. And now we expect the state to help as much as it can. I propose an amendment relating to, like, 13% of the investment that needs to give another 1200 liters of water per second. It's my job here, which is why people, among other things, voted for these other parties that have MPs here, and I also expect them to be cooperative and collegiate, and I expect from you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this, because there is no competition in any project that is here, except for those concerning the health of children and the safety of the country. I was fragmented by the data the other day that the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent service found that 25 houses for non-existent people were built during the recent flood in Banat. So these are houses that have no one to take over, because people, falsely pretending to be residents of that section where the flood was, neither guilty nor due, got a house they can't move into right now, because they never really lived there. Someone's house was built on an honorable word. We are, then, a very rich country. I said it last time, and I'm gonna insist on it, so I'm gonna propose a polling committee on that. How is it possible that someone's working that way-- an honorary word, I need a house, and someone builds a house for him, like, 25 times. So, we're talking about serious things, we're serious people, and we have serious financial resources ahead of us. A billion and 500m euros give us all, above all, the obligation and the task of treating these funds properly. My colleagues didn't listen to me very closely, but never mind, they understood what I was talking about. Once again, I ask you to support in the voting day the amendment that I have submitted in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29279	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29280	On behalf of the five presidents of the municipalities: Arilla, Požega, Chačka, Lucan and Gornji Milanovac, who are mentioned in an indirect manner, I would like to thank Ambassador Baralic for this great concern for the water system of the Rzav Public Enterprise, based in Ariel. This is one of the largest and most significant Serbian investments. I am also a member of the coordination body at the head of this public company. What I would like to say to this occasion is that all representatives of the municipalities are in favour of this project and much has been done at the level of the Public Enterprise Rzav, at the level of the co-ordination bodies of all representatives of the municipalities, but has not yet been done at the level of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to tell my colleague Baralic that, here, and in the draft budget, we need to go from who was authorized to submit proposals for the National Investment Plan, or projects. Local self-government and competent ministries were authorized. Therefore, it could not be submitted to the organisation of several local administrations, i.e. self-government, because at that time we would deny all those other necessary needs of citizens, but it failed the competent ministry. It can't be said that Serbia doesn't know about the largest water system – Rzav, and it can't be said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know about the dams in Shračev, because the same Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia and published it in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which provides for three waterfalls and three dams, two on the territory of the municipality of Požega and one on the territory of the municipality of Uzica. It was one pre-business fully informed of by the competent ministry, if not the complete government. For these reasons, there was a place for the competent ministry to launch the initiative, and we would warmly support that initiative, and I am telling you in advance - to co-finance this huge investment. Do not forget that we also accepted projects by the Agency for the Development of Local Infrastructure, which offered us participation in parity – 65% local self-government, 35% National Investment Plan. So, if we accepted that, we would certainly accept this investment, which would be for the benefit of not only these five cities, but even kings and beyond tomorrow. What I particularly appreciate is that I inform both the public and all of you here in the Assembly, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this and the following year, from this water system, the cleanest water in the Republic of Serbia will drink all citizens in the territory of the municipality of Požega, the city itself and every village, and the territory is very large and dissipated. Therefore, I would like that water to be drank by all those who are deprived of it at this time. Therefore, the government, or the competent ministry, should recognise this vital interest, and at least one investment should be identified as capital and priority. If you remember my principle discussion, I was just saying that Serbia has no investment, no projects adopted, no strategy, no priorities, but, on the other hand, it forgets what it has already done. The information works, 18 books of projects are already ready and standing elaborated, just waiting for the investor. The investment rate is 61m euros. On that behalf, once again, I would like to thank Ambassador Baralic, and I hope that this exhibit of mine will be supported by all the other presidents of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29281	I hope you thank me in four minutes and 46 seconds. It's all right, I think we'll make it up with good water in Požega when we get there. Here you go, Mr. Tucker. You and Mr. Zivadinović have 17 minutes left and these are the last speakers on this list of registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29282	Ladies and gentlemen, since the time has passed, I would like to inform you that today we are discussing the law on amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of 2006. Since we often try to diversify the discussion, the G17 Group of MPs plus fully supports this project. In any case, these changes in the budget are being made, as the finance minister said in his exposé, in a situation where the budget's revenues are being made by a larger inflow, allowing a useful investment to be made in this fiscal year. I would like to draw attention to a few questions when adopting the Law on the Budget of the Republic for 2006, at the end of last, 2005, at the same time we discussed and adopted the 2006 Memorandum of Economic Policy. The memorandum established a fiscal policy, with the following elements: stability, reduction of public spending by 1.3% of gross social product, continuation of reform of economy and society, investments, especially foreign, increase in exports, regulation and reduction of the pay deficit and a fall in public debt below 50% of the social gross product. The legislation adopted in this area allows for positive growth developments, especially in the area of territorial activity, where we also have an increase in employment. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, the Republic's budget plays an active role in the creation of economic policy, both for the current year and for many years in advance. This is provided for in Article 1(37) of the National Investment Plan, which has been implemented by the privatisation process, credits and international financial money, as well as other sources, provides for investments that promote employment growth, modernisation of infrastructure, which accelerate economic development, control and allow for balanced regional development while also contributing to improving population standards. The idea presented to the public at the beginning of the current year was often negative, and utopian thinking of such a complex issue also appeared. However, the life and design of this government's policy and consistently implemented fiscal policy of the Ministry of Finance, particularly in reducing flows in the gray economy, the equal treatment of all participants, taxpayers, as well as the constant control charge of established commitments, allowed the vision of the National Investment Plan to be translated into legal form, and then, in the next period, to be achieved. I would like to highlight a positive trend in the realization of Moby 63, which has also helped make this project real. In any case, the public display of the entire sales process gives legitimacy and guarantees that the transparency of privatisation gives a positive result. At the same time, the draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law sets out part of the funds achieved by privatising state capital to increase standards throughout the Republic. With the proposed amendments to the Budget Law, a large amount of money will enter into circulation within a very short time period. It is also known that direct intentions have been established when appropriations for spending, to what it is possible to spend. In practice, however, a certain deviation and different use of funds may be possible. I therefore believe that comprehensive control of how these funds are spent is necessary, in particular by activating a state audit institution. At the previous agenda, we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, where internal control was introduced. However, the competent ministries, each of them in their jurisdiction, will carry out special supervision of the legal powers. Also, on the basis of the Law on the State Auditing Institution, which was adopted at the end of 2005 and published in the "Official Messenger" No. 101, by taking over other countries' practices, we have accepted and regulated control, audit of entities, which are indirect and direct beneficiaries of budget funds, legal entities that directly or indirectly use public funds. This institution shall be empowered and qualified to control and audit the spending of funds provided for in the part of the budget for certain purposes. It's an independent, independent state body. For his work he directly corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic. However, his work cannot begin until the National Assembly chooses the advice of the institution. It would be necessary for the election procedure to be completed as soon as possible, so that this large investment programme in the whole of the Republic can be immediately monitored and reacted in a timely manner. As regards the service of the state's internal and external obligations, for the functioning of the state and its institutions, the economy and all others, modern society uses its resources, and in order for all of this to work, it must have capital in function. Our society needs to be more actively involved in the international market of securities of value, to activate its opportunities through intensive work in the formation of investment funds, on which this esteemed home has passed a law - the Investment Funds Act, in order to provide as much quality resources as possible for the smooth work of the economy and the state. Despite such efforts, we still have inherited debt in the form of loans and other liabilities as a state. The draft amending the Budget Law sets out the country's commitments to certain creditors. I find it very important to point out that, according to the draft amending the Budget Law, part of the privatisation income funds are intended to be used both for the payment of the principal public debt and for loans to stimulate economic development. By carrying out this obligation, the state will become a low-indebted country. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic policy objectives for 2006, which are also expressed in the rebalancing of this budget, continue economic development through export growth and increased foreign direct investment. Realising these objectives would help improve the structure and number of employees, as well as improve standards. According to economic developments, this year the rate of economic growth is expected up to 8%, as we heard from the finance minister, and gross domestic production of $3.5,000 per capita, which is very significant ahead of the negotiations to join the European Union. The reduction of grey economy flows has a positive impact on the movement of budget revenues in the Republic, and this can be registered at the level of income tax achieved by citizens over the past eight months of the current year. Statistical reports, in parallel analysis, confirm that the value of the earnings is increasing. For example, 7.7% were increased in July compared to last year, which is very significant, as it points to a positive trend in economic growth in the Republic. I'd like to point out the license fee as a direct revenue of the budget. The existing concession law allows broad application in cases where natural goods or other natural advantages or resources are used for economic purposes; the State has the right to seek compensation through the payment of the concession. I consider this a significant shift in the achievement of income increases in the structure of non-tax revenues, such as income achieved by issuing a mobile phone license. I believe that in other areas it is possible to make such income, as is the case with the use of radio frequency for commercial purposes. As is known, the proposed amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic envision a 7% increase in income and 13% in expenditure, restructuring of the internal allocation of funds. Finally, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group supports the proposed amendments to the 2006 Budget Law and calls on others to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29283	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here you go. The word has an authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, Vesna Raca-Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29284	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, here we are all day listening to what is, above all, an impression for most Serbian citizens, perhaps not as much budget and budget rebalance as this national investment plan. I can say responsibly that there are extremely many positive reactions from citizens to the whole story of the National Investment Plan. Why do I say that? As a member of the Belgrade City Council, I am in charge, in front of Belgrade, of applying the National Investment Plan on Belgrade's territory. The city of Belgrade has an understanding of the scope of this problem and would form something called a co-ordination body, which should help projects from the National Investment Plan on Belgrade territory, regardless of sectoral membership, regardless of the investor, or jurisdiction, to be applied more quickly and quality. We've been listening to all sorts of remarks here today. The most common concern was investment maintenance. You will hardly find a citizen in Serbia who will accept that it is not a matter of increasing the standard of living the way his children are and what his children are educated in. You will hardly be able to convince any Serbian citizen that the future of children, through investment in education, is not something that is serious and of great interest. You will hardly convince citizens who are to be treated that the way they consume healthcare institutions is not significant. We didn't mention anything important from the things covered by the National Investment Plan. We've only mentioned some things that aren't good. We did not mention that the Belgrade city is the centre of some health services, that many Serbian citizens are being treated in Belgrade. We did not mention, for example, how important it is that Belgrade will receive an extremely modern diagnostic centre that will allow the detection of malignant diseases at the earliest stage, at a stage when healing is very certain and possible. We didn't talk about it all. About the importance of travel infrastructure, said a colleague from Trudel, how many people there are and how much milk they deliver, it is a small local road. You can hardly convince me and anyone that it has no impact on the increase in employment and on how people in that area live. The National Investment Plan is an instrument of the government's economic policy to encourage employment, stable regional development, i.e. balanced regional development, export growth and, of course, is not possible in one session, not even in a few discussions to assess the importance of the National Investment Plan. Over 3,000 projects arrived at the Ministry of Finance project centre, as it was determined, in order to make projects during June, i.e. By the end of June they could apply, or file applications. What does it mean to file a report? To apply, among other things, means the responsibility of all participants in socio-political life, and those who can apply to submit, to recognise the needs of their end and their environment. The state can't know what's going on in every piece of it, where there's no road, where there's no factory. Someone from the local government has to remind her of that. Hence, the responsibility of all those who had to and could bear such project plans. Of course, there are plans with a high degree of project preparedness, plans where people and experts have worked hard. There are also those who are only good wishes and ideas, and indeed they are a real requirement of local environments, and in that case they will help make these plans very quickly into a serious degree of project preparedness. This is why we have more phases within the Ministry of Finance, within the project centre, which is why the advice discussed here today has been formed. This is why project teams have been formed, that from the projects that have passed in the government, the projects that have received the green light and adopted the first sectoral and then the entire National Investment Plan, at this point, determines the project readiness of all projects. So, the documentation that already exists, and it refers to all projects, and the one that doesn't exist, needs to be obtained. After that, the project centre, i.e. the project teams that exist in sectors and portfolios, are making a plan for spending funds, a plan for withdrawing funds, a plan for public procurement, and all of this is being forwarded to the project councils, which at that time are making the final decision on which order the projects will be implemented. Believe me, at this point, it's a much greater skill to have experts who, in the way that this serious investment and design requires – transparently, spend money. It's just that there are really insufficient projects in the high degree of preparedness, and that's where I found a very interesting exposure to this system of Rzav, because I believe that what might have been missed, not looking for mistakes -- who missed, but looking for serious projects of public interest, can be corrected. This is something of great importance and I believe that in the next round, and this is also about the next round, we talked about the programming budget today, so this project, and about the national investment planning for 2008 and 2009, will certainly pass. Due to the exceptional importance of investing in Serbia, due to the exceptional importance the National Investment Plan has for all citizens, I call on all MPs to support the draft budget rebalancing. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-09-25-0.u29285	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law and a single search on the proposals for decisions. We'll continue the discussion in detail, Wednesday at 10 o'clock. Thank you, everyone who participated responsibly today in the debate.
