ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27344	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No one reported a preventee attending today's session. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Return (RASTITUTION) by Members of the People's Parliaments: Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Vučić, Milorad Mirčić, Milovanovic, Milan Svetanovic, Božidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Miljko Četrović, Momir Marković, Branislav Blažić, Vojislav Milajić, Sreto Perić, Goran Cvetanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Veroljub Arsić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Gordan Pop-Lazić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragutin Perić, Bore Kutić, Stefan Zankov, Mita Avrov, Mita Kražanović and Žalnović as well as the President of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Krasic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27345	The SRS has submitted 30 amendments to this bill. In order to understand what is proposed by amendment to Article 1, I must first explain that we do not agree on the name of this law. The government suggests that the law is called the law on the return of (restitution) property to churches and religious communities. We believe that if this area is to be regulated by a special law, if you are still at that point of view, then there is room for application of the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic, which allows that property to return. Practically, there is no need for law, but if you are already insisting on the law for some political reasons, to respect that there are some large political reasons, and these large political reasons, for example, say that it is better to regulate something by law than by government decisions, then this law would have to be – the law on the granting of permanent use of property to churches and religious communities. Let me explain what this is about. When the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 1995, the legal position of state property was defined closer, regardless of what is the subject of state property. The regimes have been established when it comes to immovableity, even if it is land, business space, facilities, what is the legal regime of movable things, money, etc. What the law is based on could define that the right to use and manage can be cared for by another person, but the right to dispose of state-owned funds has the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is an executive law enforcement body, it enforces laws. Within the framework of these powers of the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, a solution is entirely possible, and I must say that this law is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Unlike this law, which for this formulation and this content does not have a constitutional basis, to correct something that, according to the executive authority's assessment, needs to be corrected. How? By transferring to a person the right to use and manage, by keeping the Republic still at its disposal. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know about the "return" category. I must remind you that, however many people from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who were personally interested and who were initiating the constitutional process, that is to say that some of the provisions of the Constitution must not even exist, even you, Mr. Parivodic, are one of those proceedings, or have announced that you are going to launch, in front of the Court of State. You see, the court and the state union split up, and now there's no one to solve that for you. I know you guys were joking about it. That's not gonna happen. Currently, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia are at a stage when they praise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you, these few days full of praise for the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is such a perfect act, because it predicted all possible situations. It wouldn't be good if you were criticizing something you've been boasting about these days. We have been saying from the beginning that in this Constitution, maybe five or six members need to be changed, maybe one that still has social property as a concept and a few more regarding the jurisdiction of individual state authorities. In accordance with this Constitution, we propose, in addition to a change in the name of this law, that and in Article 1, where the contents of the Bills are defined in some way, instead of the term "returning property", use the words "giveting for permanent use". What does it mean in practice when something is given to permanent use, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia? This means that that person, who has been transferred the right to use permanently, has almost all the rights over these things, except for the right to have. If you look at what is the basic requirement of churches and religious communities that rightly seek to correct some historical injustice, then you can come to an infallible conclusion that they are only interested in the right of permanent use. Why? They do not want the right to have, they do not want to gain by the traffic of immovableity because they are aware of the importance of immovableity, not only of its importance for the church, for the believers, but also for the people and for this Republic and their basic requirement is to return it to them in terms of use and governance. Of course, if the forest returns, and the forest needs to be returned with the right of permanent use, that means both exploitation and maintenance and restoration, etc. Well, since we have a lot of amendments, we'll have time for more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27346	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment in line with the concept of the SRS and our longstanding position on property and the return of property to churches, or religious communities. We told you, when it was the Law on Religious Communities, that our SPC in the past 60-70 years and in the time of King Alexander Karadjordjevic suffered from the kidnapping of its property, and later because of the persecution of the believers and everything that happened to us as a state and people. We believe that this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, is actually the key to everything and you will see, Mr. Minister, that this is the concept that we advocate, for all the time we discuss details, which is that the word "return" is replaced by the words "given for permanent use". It is the only possible way under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this would correct the great historical injustice that has occurred, above all, the SPC and other recognised religious communities in our country. It is possible that they have the property they will have for permanent use, but not to alienate it, or that, as Mr Zoran Krasic said earlier, they are doing the traffic of immovable property, i.e. what they possess without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our country, and this has always been our position since the existence of a multi-party system of political parties, is responsible for allowing the smooth use of SPC and other religious communities, but it should also be responsible in the future for the availability of this property, especially because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the one that allows us to pass the law, correct this injustice and give the churches the property for permanent use. Everything else will be a kind of deception, as did the Law on Recording taken property by natural and legal persons, brought in last year. That deadline expires somewhere now in July. The big problems have arisen in the meantime, uncleared relationships, the inability of individual owners based solely on that questionnaire, which you gave them, to prove their property, and here everything is absolutely and crystal clear. The SPC and other traditional religious communities that have been deprived of property have the right to do so and they know exactly when it happened, what year, what date, by which reference. It's our intention, and that's what we need to do as soon as possible, but to give them a permanent use of that land. Even one facility, here, was spoken by Mr Krasic, and there were ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who was the object of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and used by the Ministry of Interior in 1998, at the proposal of the SRS President, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who was the chairman of the Government's Committee for Budget and Finance, with the consent of the government and the resolution ministry, was given to the use of the Millesev diocese. We showed then, with this gesture and numerous clitory which, and the Ministry of Faith, led by Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did during that period, that our intention was to protect the property of the SPC, as we now intend to tell you that it is only possible to accept this amendment, therefore, in the very beginning to change the name of the law. Essentially nothing changes, the church returns what belongs to it, but only to comply with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to be called in each member instead of "restitution", as you have written, so that it stands - "consumptions". We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, and our SPC threatens a great danger now, after what the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic has done, with the help of Shipara, in Montenegro, where hundreds of thousands of our countrymen live. You see today in the daily press, and that's what we could think right after the euphoric separatists, before the referendum election commission's decision, self-proclaimed election results, that one span and leader of the secession, or something called, are themselves called the church, Miras Dedejic, has been threatening since this morning, and it has published all the daily presses, that they will take away all the facilities and all the property that our SPC has in Montenegro. This is what we must think about in the future, as well as about it, and that is the ideology of our party and what it has not only left us in the amannet our president, who has gone and to defend this idea of a united coup, that all Serbs can live freely on their country, what we are going to fight for, and thus protecting Serbian national interests to protect both the SPC and other peoples, and those who are different and who are other religions. We believe that you should accept this amendment and, in this context, further discuss these subsequent amendments to the SRS, in order to rightly define what I need as a state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to do after the adoption of this law and to correct the historical injustice that has been done, above all, the martyrs of the SPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27348	Thank you. Before we continue on the amendments, in fact, let me just ask more about this first amendment if anyone wants a word? No, I don't. ) One notice and one statement. You have accepted the resignation of Srboljub Marinkovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Srboljub Marinkovic, elected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. A member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27349	Ladies and gentlemen, I remembered when we talked here about the law in principle that one of the MPs, from the parliamentary group who will vote for this bill, said this law would achieve the most important foreign policy effect. I wrote that down. Every time I get creeped out of this finding, because because of these foreign policy effects we have today, still off the record, but, a secededed part of the Serbian people in Montenegro, of course, as responsible for the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, is responsible for the EU and Javier Solana, who has been brought into these affairs by nothing. As long as he meets such demands, we are doing to ourselves what does not suit the citizens of Serbia. As a result, what Ms. Natasa Jovanovic just said to you earlier this morning, under the skill of "atrocity" was announced that Miras Dedejic intends to steal 750 temples from the SPC. I think this morning, today, this is a bigger problem for the SPC than this law we're discussing, with all due respect, and importance, and the need to pass one of these laws, of course not as you've come up with it, we've tabled amendments to every member of this bill, and constructive amendments. We tried to present our concept to you so that we would damage the SPC and other traditional churches. On the basis of these amendments, we have made a consolidated text of the bill and we have handed it over to all MP groups and ministers, of course, but obviously no one cares that the problem, as you say, is "return," and we say, "give in permanent use of the property to the churches", is solved in the right way. That such a law should be passed by the votes of all the MPs – you will not, and therefore you have not accepted our amendment. And there's no need, Minister, to accept every third or every fifth, because if you don't accept all our amendments, then you didn't do anything to vote for this law anyway. Here, too, someone spoke in the principle debate, after the discussion of the SRS MPs, that there should be no new injustice, as if people, or legal persons, however, who are now using an asset that was once churchlike, as if they had taken it personally, as if they were not security users of that property. So, totally nakaradically set. In fact, this law is one of your pre-election promises. We understand that you're only trying to keep your pre-election promises. You haven't filled any so far, and you're not doing this. Because the law you bring, Minister, I must tell you, is inadmissible. You keep making inapplicable laws, unconstitutional laws. Yesterday I quoted here several members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, now I am going to quote to you only Article 119 of Article 1 which says: "The law, the statute of the Autonomous Province, the second regulation or the general act must be agreed with the Constitution". This law, ministers and fellow MPs, is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is not in line with the Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia. Article 8 of paragraph 2 of this law states: "The granting of use, i.e. in the lease, of the property used by the state body and by the organisation is decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia". So if you really wanted to solve the issue of return, as you said, and I repeat again, by giving it to the permanent use of property to churches and religious communities, then you should have changed the law on funds in the property of the Republic of Serbia or put it out of force, and before that you had to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the institutes that you provide for in this law. In Article 2. The proposal for this law provides that the return of the seized assets is based on the principles: equal legal treatment of all churches and religious communities; their autonomy of the will to initiate the procedure; protection of the legal certainty of current security owners and third parties, as well as the principles of emergency treatment. I am this member of the bill, in fact, explaining what we have done through our amendments and through a principled debate tried to let you know, because it is impossible if you keep this term "returning off your assets" to apply Article 2. A bill of this law. And not just this one, but many members of this law. So this is one of the laws that you're going to boast about how you passed the law on the return of property to churches, and you won't be able to return property, at least not the most. That is why we insist that you continue to accept our amendments and that, by accepting our amendments, everyone is indeed satisfied; and the current users of these assets, and churches, and religious communities, and ultimately, to correct an injustice, as you say. And you correct that injustice by making a new injustice, because I really don't see what the difference is between those who took away property and the churches and the citizens of Serbia, from you who are also planning to take away some property, to bring it back to someone else. I really don't believe that it's the goal, or the intention of the churches, especially the SPC, to take away anyone's property, to return to the church. I'm saying this unconnected to that fundamental aspect of ours, which is the constitutionality of this bill. None of the MPs who will vote for this law, I speak primarily of lawyers, not to mention, even if we had this provided in the Constitution, the pre-inclusive 20-year legal deadline, and that deadline is an obstacle to such a bill. So, neither legal nor political is a good solution, but we certainly want, when it comes to the SPC and other churches, to sort out in some way, to correct the injustice that was once done to these churches. That is why we have proposed and we propose that instead of returning the seized property, we use a constitutional term, a legal term, and to say that the churches are given the property for permanent use. In this way the goal of both this law and the needs of the churches is met. Because it doesn't take the churches to resell it, sell it, but it needs them to process that land, if it's a farmland. To process the land so that churches and monasteries can live on, because we know how monks and nuns are supported, above all, in Serbian Orthodox temples. Of course we don't have anything against it, but don't make any money, so, I don't know, some political points that are one-time, because you, today, tomorrow, or already when this law is passed, when you pass that law, you'll be able to boast for two or three days that you've passed this law, and then you'll have the demands of the Church that this law be implemented, and people in local self-governments won't be able to resolve this issue; they won't be able to return the property as you predict this law, because I don't believe that lawyers in those services will bring unconstitutional solutions, and in particular it's a question of the current users of that property. So, given that today is an unusually full hall in Parliament, I suggest that Members of Parliament consider our amendments, not only this amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The bill, but to consider all our amendments and to vote on these amendments in the day of voting. It's the only way we fulfill our commitment to churches and religious communities. The way the government of the Republic of Serbia predicts it is not possible. Nothing in our amendments, I assume you've looked at the draft text of the law that we've made based on the government's proposal and based on our amendments. You have time, look, and you will see that, in no part of it, we have failed intent, nor in any way questioned the compensation of churches and religious communities. We insist on legal and constitutional solutions. I point out once again, we want to do this for churches and religious communities, we want to vote in favour of the law, but on one condition, that the law is suspended, that is, instead of the term "returning the taken property" we use the term "give to permanent use". Without that, ladies and gentlemen, you're not solving the problem. You are passing a law that you will not be able to apply, just because you cannot afford the fact that SRS MPs are much more serious and much more studioous than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law is proof to you, that is, our proposal is proof of how seriously we are doing this job and how much we want to do, in the end, to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When this law is passed and if we, the Serbian Radicals, are to be passed, then the application of the law would be on the republican authorities. Only the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate can have state property. I call you once again, accept not only this one, but all our amendments, otherwise you will do nothing with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27350	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) We have two proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure of the session, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, is on the basis of Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, by emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda – a proposal for an amendment to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Nine out of 138 MPs voted for 129. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, is on the basis of Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 May 2006. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, 6 out of 135 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Before we proceed, MP Nedeljkovic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. After that, we continue to discuss the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27351	Dear People's MPs, as a National MP from Gornji Milanovac, I am obliged to draw attention to the public, both to this assembly and to the Serbian Government, that, in the wake of a referendum on the impeachment of the municipality president in Gornji Milanovac, who, by the way, failed to, therefore, introduce a state of emergency in that environment. If the state of emergency is too strong, I'll give you a brief description of what's going on, so you find yourself an appropriate expression. So, what's up? The president of the municipality is forming crisis headquarters. No one called it that, that's it. So he's forming crisis headquarters, and he's trying violently somewhere, and he's already managed to drive away some individuals, or the directors of public enterprises and institutions, and he's putting people he wants in their place. For those who may not know the legal provisions, only the congregation of the municipality can appoint and resolve, and when the assembly of the municipality is disbanded, after a failed referendum in this case, the government appoints a transitional council that can only perform that function. What's going on here? People break in, show some papers signed by Dravimir Marusic, and inform that from that moment on they are directors. So, it repeats itself, do you like October 5th or, I would say, the 45th year, given the ideological omen of the usurper. To make the miracle bigger, none of the competent state authorities, institutions, respond despite warnings, neither the MUP nor the prosecution, nor the court. Everyone's waiting for something to happen to themselves. If the government does nothing to prevent a revolutionary takeover of power in a Serbian municipality and not punish a usurper, who establishes his private feud, it will be definitive proof that the president has been said above the law. We who have been fighting the local despot for a long time, we know, we have knowledge, we have evidence that he enjoys protection probably from the highest place. I don't want to guess about the reasons. He was protected from the law as a white bear and could therefore do all he had done so far, to break the laws, to be choked in corruption and crime, and that the prosecution, the court, the MUP, would absolutely not move until now. He is now spreading the story to Gornji Milanovac that he has ensured that the government appoints him at tomorrow's session a transitional bigger one after his boss and legalizes what is now being kidnapped by force. If that happens, if the government gives him the Gornji Milanovac on the plate, he can freely close the gates of the city, lift the hangers and hang all his political opponents. In my knowledge, all political parties in Gornji Milanovac, i.e. municipal committees whose parties are members of the ruling coalition, announce self-determination if the government meets the demands of the local dictator to appoint him a transitional greater than his will. It's none of our business, but they asked me to say it here in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27352	Word by Business has a National MP, Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward because I was born in Gornji Milanovac and Dražimir Marusic is a member of the SPS General Committee, the chairman of the SPS Municipal Committee in Gornji Milanovac. A few days ago, a referendum was organised on the trust of Dražimir Marusic, the elected president of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, who initiated seven municipal committees of parties that live and act politically in Gornji Milanovac. In the referendum, Dražimir Marusic had 2,500 votes more than those who organised the referendum and thus the referendum was fully in line with the law. We, of course, once did not vote for this Law on Local Self-Government, and I find the whole law extremely problematic, but the law must be respected. Heavy qualifications have been expressed here, that someone is corrupt, some competent state authorities are doing their job, but the citizens of Gornji Milanovci did not believe that Dražimir Marusic was corrupt. When 2,500 people say more that he should remain president of the municipality, then it's obvious that it's about a man who has trust in this municipality. No one should close the gates on the Upper Milanovac. Dražimir Marusic has several times been the president of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac and I would like to say with full responsibility that at least $100m of investment from the state budget or elsewhere came to this municipality; the first waste water treatment plant, the gasification of Gornji Milanovac, a whole series of other good moves, the municipal infrastructure. The citizens of Gornji Milanovac evaluated it, assessed it. In accordance with the law, elections should be organised for municipal assembly committees, which is a legal procedure. I remind you that at the moment when the government was changed, local television was banned from following the election of the president of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, election committees and election committees were composed without SPS representatives, so thanks to one intervention by Mr Loncar, the competent minister, Dražimir Marusic, was granted the right to monitor the election boards. So, I'm simply asking the public to let this thing be brought to an end by procedure. I am fully convinced that in the elections, which must be called, the SPS will easily find a new partner to compose power and thus Dražimir Marusic, as the elected president of the municipality, and is a member of the SPS, forms a majority that will ensure stable political management in Gornji Milanovac. Because, I remind you, 50 referendums on the declaration of confidence of Serbian citizens so far cost the Serbian state's budget 600 million dinars. So, we need to assess when we talk about this law whether it's worth it this way to uphold this electoral law or whether we need to return to our positions so that elected council members of the municipal assembly choose the president and that we do not have these problems. Anyway, I congratulate Dražimir Marusic on the great victory he won on Sunday and there are no dilemmas here. The state should do what needs to be done, and of course, those who lose have the right to be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27354	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27355	According to the Rules of Procedure, since Mr Baralic did not talk at all about what I said as a problem, he gave a political speech, marketing. No one denied that the referendum went the way it did. Although, you've been a little high on those results in his favor, but it's not that controversial. I'm asking you, does anyone win an election get more authority than the law gives them based on a function they have? So he saw "win" in the referendum as a free hand to do whatever he wanted. He started forming crisis headquarters. The public company Putevi, the Museum, the JKP, come and try, in a way to drive out – two directors have already expelled. That's what I'm talking about. As far as local elections are concerned, there's one principle that needs to be said. Unfortunately, in most municipalities local elections take place in the atmosphere, in a way and by methodology that does not reflect the political will and determination of citizens. This is the perfect time for locals to win local elections. Local elections are best received by liars, those who serve blackmail, pressures, unreasonable promises. I don't argue that he got more votes, but talk about the people's will when 30% of the citizens come out, the way these people come out, those people who took part and watched with their eyes know perfectly. I'm not going to spread that story about the methodology for conducting local elections. People who don't promise unreal, people who don't blackmail, who don't bribe, have nothing to look for in local elections, if on the other hand they have an opponent who uses it. As far as the state authorities need this corruption, the crime to sanction, I've been presenting material evidence, witnesses, about his and his associates' criminal activities. What's the score? The result is I have 20 defamation suits, and the state authorities absolutely didn't question anything when I offered both material evidence and when I offered witnesses. The prosecution rejects or keeps it in the drawer to make it all go away. I believe you didn't want it, but it really seemed a little ironic and cynical to me. A man gets caught on the spot with 100,000 euros in his suitcase, so nothing, and we pretend like we don't know which country we live in, so if someone's got a conviction against him, he's clean, innocent. It's legal, but we know how things are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27356	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27357	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honest people win the election except where the Serbian government is involved. Where the government of Serbia interferes, grass does not grow. That gang, here's what he's doing in Bora. Because they care a lot about Bor, because they think they're taking money from the citizens of Bor, so they plan, even before the election is over, to discuss the tender, and because a lot of money is going to land in local self-government, and yet they're going to rob workers and people living in Bora, so they intend to, at any cost, forcefully, literally illiterate candidate out to, God forbid, be the president of the Bor municipality. Of course, the most serious candidate is Branislav Rankic, an SRS candidate, honest, serious, responsible, honorable, professional, worker, of course, very educated, college-educated, a man who's worked his whole life for Bor, tied to RTB, but why is he less good than one who can't speak two words, who can't say anything, because he's being run there as a bear. So, as a bear, they run it, in the right sense of the word. And sometimes the bear is released, they never let this one go, they have a rope, and they lead him from village to village, and every village the gang has brought, they turn on the reflectors, and if they work. Four years have not appeared in Bor, no one has ever gone, and now to Metovnica, Krimelj, Sarbanovac, Zlot, for God's sake, now wonders will do, just vote for that bear that they will lead and all the problems have been solved. That's what they do all over Serbia, because it's behind it by the government. And the government came here yesterday, to see them, I went to a rally of support for Branislav Rankic, an honest, serious man, a Serbian radical, when I see someone harassing me on the road, we're driving a normal car, some Mercedes S-500, put on a rotation, some mass from a car, they're screaming, you get out of the way. I'm not going to step back on purpose to see what the bandit is, when it's, like, one of the ministers. They're getting everyone out of the way in that yellow tape, they're driving away and trucks and all the cars and everything. And where's he going? He's going to Bor to lie to the people. There's a great force coming. I stopped at a gas station to rest, headed back to Bor, before turning for Paracino, another one like that. I'm looking at who, when that other minister, and again some rotation, looks like the government's session was in Bor. No, they can't exactly go to the mine, they like to go to the office, where they're gonna steal money from the mine, and they're not gonna go down to the mine. Then there's a third, and I see some jeeps coming around, and I'm counting on whether or not this guy from the government, he's not, but he's supporting the government. God's father can't get you what you're going to think of and what you're going to do if you don't have the money to rob them as much as you can and how you can. It is true, but still, he will win an honorable and honest man like Branislav Rankic. To get back to the law, we asked in Article 3... But people, the bear solution was in the Mercedes. So, we asked that the following things be changed in Article 3(1): that point 3 should be shortened and it should only be said: "The obligation to give permanent use is the Republic of Serbia", for the simple reason that our basic request, the SRS MP, is, and the deputy president of our party and the head of our parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, with high church dignitaries, in line with the interests of both the Serbian Church and our people, is absolutely the most important thing for the church to get what it belongs to. But there is no state of money, nor does the church need that money to solve these things, but they need a country, land to process, and thus the Serbian Church has always been recognized. That's what we can do in every way to give her back, to be of the same quality, something that would be equivalent to what can't be returned directly in that form so that the church demands it. That is what is the essence of the Serbian Radicals proposal and no one in the church would have any problem against it. But let's see what we've done with our church, except allow all-powerful attacks, media attacks, on our church, and you know that the SRS is no clerical organization, on the contrary, we are for the separation of the church from the state and the non-mixing... Do you see this, a man talking on the phone, it looks like he's on his way to the boat?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27358	Mr. Wolfie, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27359	Maybe today's the day it's time for him to take the cake to Bor, so he's got to get out. You guys didn't see that. So, the citizens of Serbia, so you see, that man doesn't talk, they lead him, and they say, "Here, we came here, for him to vote and point the bear." And nothing people, this one shut up, nothing further. Then when people ask questions, they say, "You shut up now, I'll answer." Wait, are you running for him or this minister, who you're running for, what's this about? It's something amazing. To return to our church, therefore, except for all kinds of media attacks, and above all, to SPCs, all kinds of and all, from being shown at B92 as our church as a criminal organization, that none of the state authorities oppose it, that no one can say it's not true. That no one should say – do not attack perhaps the only institution in Serbia in which people and citizens have trust, and believers and those who are not believers or who are believers of some other churches, because it is necessary that the last institution of Serbia be brought down. We don't have any more newspapers that anyone thought were an institution, and they've been in this country for dozens of years, even if they were much worse than many thought of them. We can't even talk about it in football clubs anymore, especially after all this scum Dejan Savicevic did, they took down our army, they took down our police. Yeah, that's what I say as the biggest star, and I can't even talk about the Lazovics and the others who are going to play from the heart of the Forest for the separatist movement. So, with all that, they took down our army, they took down our police force, they took down our country, which took us on our official journey, they're totally tearing down our church now. Now, how's it going? Now in Montenegro, I have that big phone where I receive e-mails, to show you an e-mail with a call this morning in Budva, a call to the Mains, Paštrovic, coat of arms, Brajics and all others to take over Serbian churches and transfer them to this sect of police called the "Montenegro Orthodox Church". Who made it possible, who contributed? I'm not going to accuse those who didn't know more or less, but they didn't want it to be an independent state. How many in this congregation helped separate our people? I have one thing to explain to the citizens of Serbia, I have nothing, and I have nothing good and I don't feel good about Milo Djukanovic, for separatists, for those who voted for secession, what, with those sad 45% of the people, 200,000 Serbs who voted for the survival of the state community, to which the church would go. Will the creation of a Croatian Orthodox Church be allowed tomorrow, who knows what they will invent. Look what we did in Serbia, there goes our football player, he's a goalie for some Croatian club or I don't know what, they ask him who you're going to root for at the World Cup, and instead of saying, of course, about his country and his team, he says, so for us and for the Croats. Exactly to take the rope and kill yourself, you have nothing else to do. This is where they run your mayoral bears, this is where they destroy you and destroy all your institutions, destroy your entire country. They're destroying your land in every place, in every way. They're tearing down the Serbian church in every place. Still the Serbian church remains the only institution they have not brought down. And to bring it down. Every day! You have seen that both the separatist regime and the Ustasha regime in Montenegro, following the ideas of red Croatia, Sekula Drljević and Savić Markovic-Stedmija, are proud of it. They celebrated with all Albanian and Croatian flags and all others, but there was no Serbian and Yugoslav tricolours. So after all this, we will continue to help them or someone will finally come forward and say, "Stop destroying the state, destroying our church." Is there anyone who can say that in this country? Is there anyone who's not afraid of what they're going to say to B92? There are some who can't wait. Milina, one of them, will now go to celebrate along with those who celebrated the Serbian disaster, Serbian torture and Serbian problems in Tirana and Zagreb. We have lost many territories and a great deal of our people in Serbia today. The periphery of our people is, unfortunately, increasing, increasing both territorially and in numbers of people, now coming to a figure of about two million people. Two million Serbs live outside Serbia's borders, not in the white world, but in what the countries of the former Yugoslavia have recognised; which in the occupied Krajina, which in the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH, which in Macedonia, is in Montenegro. It's our job to take care of our people. As far as these Montenegrin separatists are concerned, they have a beautiful house, never to see Milo Djukanovic or Dejan Savivić in their eyes. I don't need them on the globe for anything. As far as our people are concerned, they need our help, they will always be open to the doors of Serbia; we will always help them and do everything to survive and stay in their hearths, if necessary both economically and in any other way. They should never and must never feel alone, they must know that behind the Serbian people must always be both the Serbian state and the Serb people in general. At the same time, I call once again on these anti-Serbian separatists, who think they can do what they want now, as well as external aid, and above all, apparently, by campaigning based on anti-Serbianism, have managed to get all Albanians out, but others to vote against Serbs and Serbia, not to attack Serb saints, not to attack the Serbian church, as well as those who subdued their stick that they cannot domesticate up to two percent here in Serbia, that they are not trying to do so here. It is enough that they showed how poor they were and when Milosevic was buried, they celebrated the funeral with satanic balloons, and now they celebrated the disaster with champagne, the misery of both the Serb people in Montenegro, so it would be good to stop it. Because Serbian citizens will no longer suffer terror from bear and Serb enemies. It's up to you to discuss the elections as soon as possible, because you can't collect as many bears as you can to guide Serbia and the bear guide. Let the people declare what they think of both the Serbian government and the Serbian president, and then you will see how many people want to change, how much they want to have a serious state, how much they want to fight corruption and crime, who was caught with 100,000 euros, and become the director of the banking sector, because if he had been caught with a million, he would have become governor, with two million prime ministers, and with five million and the head of state. For all this, Serbian citizens want changes and want elections. Since you are very strong, and since you have a lot of bears and bear guides, since you are the strongest in the globe, question the elections, see the will of the people at the level of all Serbia and see what the citizens of Serbia say. We're not going to win anyone's elections to get our revenge, because we're not revolutionaries, we're not revolutionaries, we're not gonna win this election. The only thing we promise you is that, in accordance with the law, thieves and criminals will have to go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27360	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Mircic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 4 and 4. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27361	Before I begin to explain this amendment to Article 4, I must say, if the government is convinced and has truly honorable and noble intentions of this concept of the bill, then I must say that with our amendments we are going twice as far as quality, honor, honesty and other characteristics and characteristics of this attitude and this proposal. I must return to the previous amendment (member 3). You said in point 3) what some expressions mean; "under the obligation of return, i.e. payment of compensation means the Republic of Serbia, companies and other legal or natural persons who are owners of property and who are obliged under this law to repay the property or pay the cash compensation." I tried very hard to read what you wrote. I have to say, we're already seeing conflicts here in the very definition of "return bonds." When it's said "compulsory," it's much more like some tax regulations, not this property, but not getting into the small details. However, a way of taxing who might be obliged to return is truly broad and conflictingly determined. You're simply forcing the church to conflict with its believers, because it's the one who's obliged to return defined as a physical person. So behind the word "physical face" we can put in a non-existent bracket that could say "faithful." It's dangerous what you do. Of course, point 4) we did not want to change you completely, because we believe this is not the place in the law, since the territory of the Republic of Serbia is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you've already wanted to make this public, then we've given another formula that's more appropriate and potent, if I may say so, this historic moment. I don't read it on purpose. You who had the opportunity to read the amendments and if you had the bill in your hands, if you had, by any chance, read the bill, you'd understand what it was about. Then we come to the amendment to Article 4. In the Government proposal, this member has his name – Priority of natural restitution. Article 4 says: "The seized property is returned, as a rule (when the law says "by the rule", you know that it means nothing, can interpret how it is desired), in natural form, in the form of the same or other relevant assets, and market cash compensation is paid only if return in natural form is not possible". We believe that this form of return through monetary expression is not acceptable at this time, especially if it affects the government, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and it would not be good for taxpayers to settle the obligations of the state, because before the one to whom the property is returned, the set of property rights gives permanent use, in any variant, does not want it. None of our churches and the religious community wants to take funds out of the budget on this basis, as you push them to take it. Churches and religious communities are far more serious than the variable personal composition of the executive government that is changing and representing the state, and from time to time, that state can act unseriously, but not because the state is inconclusive than those who empower that state, which is personifier, variable people, very often lose the compass in time and space and begin to do anything. They represent the state by destroying it. What do we propose to change in Article 4 and then how do we say it? We ask that the title be "given property for permanent use", and Article 4 reads, "If permanent use cannot be taken away from property, other appropriate property will be given". This shows that the term "responsible" should be interpreted in two directions, and from the point of view of the state that gives it to permanent use and from the point of view of the recipient. "Responsible" can be interpreted by both quantity and quality, and by locality, however you like, but "responsible" in terms of consensus, achieving agreement between both sides. That's the point we want to point out in this bill of law to these amendments. Now, I need to expand this a little bit, and I see that some campaign is being run from the government, through these guidance counselors. So here were some talks yesterday, so here's the preparation, a few days, to protect our monasteries in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as cultural historical monuments, etc. It is very perfiduous done by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I must warn the widest public in Serbia that that group of politicians, MPs, people in the government, in banks and still in some places, who in all ways want to carry out denationalisation, in the way it was imagined in agreement with the DS, through the recording and the confirmation, so the next stage will see what it will be, be sure that there will be no such second stage, through churches and religious communities wanting to break the principle, to break through constitutionality, so that tomorrow, when they personally come to the wallpaper to break down, they said – please, we are not looking for anything new now, it is already over. The first stage was recording, the second stage was church and religious communities, and now, the third stage could be ministers, individual representatives, allegedly some associations, and who knows who is increasingly counting on that property. And that's the one, I have to use that word, immoral. Immoral, because the church as an institution, a serious institution in which citizens have the most trust, is taking out the first plan and trying something else, politically even more dangerous, to do, to make all those who oppose this concept, who in the end have the same goal, be called, that, as Mr. Vukic said, and that they lead it on the chain, even if there is one sentence to say – well, my government has returned. We are now told about this if this is done, you know, the churches and religious communities will be protected in other territories because private property is sacred. Please, I just need to remind you of one thing. What does the internal legal order of the Republic of Serbia have to do with the concept of separation of the state from the church, as well as the state's attitude towards the church in Serbia with the rights to have a SPC or any other church or religious community in any of these countries in our environment? They can do anything there they can think of. You're trying to present what's in the area of property rights to the public as a status issue. But I have to say, you're not qualified to talk to me. Well, half of Macedonia owns SPC, all historical monuments and Dusan's bridge, and all the places. And you think if you write a law like this here and go with your concept that you've improved your position, because private property there will interpret it as sacred. Don't go with those pranks, we're far better educated than you and we're better at talking about these facts. You can't qualify to discuss these issues with us. We can tell you six months in advance what every move means to you and why you took it. Don't question the subjectivity, legal status to tie to the property relationship in the Republic of Serbia, which the Republic has towards churches and religious communities. Don't. Because if you think that if your concept goes through here that it can help somewhere abroad churches and religious communities, then you're wrong. Then you don't know how organized the Roman Catholic Church, the SPC, is, you don't know how organized religious communities are; on what principle, they draw their subjectivity, what their property position, widely observed, rope observed, within a country, in international contexts. Don't mix legal subjectivity and property issue, don't mix it up. Our churches and religious communities do not want what they say – restitution to be done in monetary form. They don't want to. But the citizens of Serbia do not want you to, with such a prank as you are offering in this law, allegedly hand over everything to the churches and religious communities, and then this country stays or be questioned as to what state the thresholds of statehood will be, so why don't you say, and the appearance of the national substrate of the Serbian people, because then you will have a finance minister, if he is like this, he will say – so you have your property, so you keep the monasteries and monuments of Serbian culture and the Serbian past, we are not bound. Then you force the church to dispose of all this property, to keep something safe, to remain recorded for generations. We won't let you do that. The right of permanent use of property should be passed on to churches and religious communities through this law. What's that? The one that was once taken from them. If not everything can be returned, then other relevant assets, of course, from state property, but only the right to use, and not the right to dispose, that churches and religious communities can collect fruits and thus provide funds for their normal business, but it remains in the unchanged property form as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the obligation of the state to help, maintain monuments of culture, what is evidence of our existence and our statehood. And don't tie it to the outside, don't mess with the legal subjectivity, because then we're going to have a much harder artillery, which we're going to disprove your concept and support our concept. So, ultimately, the goal can be the same, but the variant proposed by the SRS is fairer, because it doesn't pour the church into the deleted space, that it comes into an awkward situation, both according to legal faces, both to the physical faces and to the companies. The only one who can be, as you say, bound by churches and religious communities is only the Republic of Serbia. Because if I were to literally go with your concept, then I have to tell you that whoever took that one should come back. You've just forgotten some things, that life happened in 1945 until today. Fortunately he happened, there were some changes, there were lived, there had to be lived, for some it was punishment. And don't push the church into any new conflicts now, because the church doesn't want conflicts, the church doesn't want to capitalize. The Church only asks her to return to her to use what she had, to collect, maintain and possibly in such a way and reduce, if I may say so, the obligations that the believers have towards the church at this time, a clean bill, but also that the state still has a obligation to maintain objects, to cultivate a tradition that coincides with our statehood. Don't avoid that commitment to the state, because you're doing bad things not only to the church, but to the people and to the state and to all the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27362	On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Privatisation Committee tabled an amendment to Article 4. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 6 and 6. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27363	Although these laws that have a name in front of a member have no meaning, and as a rule, these are bad laws, we didn't want to go so far as to change your bill and this Article 6, and we just partially changed the title. This is what it looks like when the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes. It was the head of the second – Rights and Obligations Subjects, so the nickname above Article 6 – Subjects of the right to restitution. It should be those who participate in the vomiting procedure. Article 6 reads: "The right to return property belongs to churches and religious communities, i.e. their legal followers, in accordance with the applicable acts of churches and religious communities". Here is practically a new definition of churches and religious communities. Only now is it not said – under churches and religious communities there are two points, and the seven points are listed, but they are said – churches and religious communities are subjects of law. We propose that Article 6 reads: "The law of this law belongs to churches and religious communities, in accordance with the applicable acts of churches and religious communities." We didn't see in reason whether there was any legal follower, and here there's talk of churches and traditional religious communities, which existed in 45 when the act that was fatal to their property happened. We don't have any information that in the meantime some of these churches and religious communities, which were left without property in 45, have changed the legal subjectivity to this day, that one has disappeared and that another has come. I don't know how you mean it to some church's legal followers. What could be the legal follower of the SPC? God forbid, I can't understand the situation so someone can be a legal follower of the SPC. Why? So it will be permanent, while the Serbs and the Serb people will be SPC. He'll never have a legal follower. Why? Because it will never be shut down. Tell me, Professor, this is a law that regulates relations in Serbia and you must know that the National Assembly is authorized by law to regulate what is within the borders of the territory of the Republic of Serbia prescribed by the Constitution. I'd like to regulate it in Montenegro, but you didn't give it to me. First you made a Belgrade deal, then an artificial state community, so you did everything you could to tear it apart, and that poor guy blows up balloons. That coalition partner of yours. You're supposed to be a community, they're anti-community. You campaign to stay, he campaigns in Belgrade for independent Serbia. You obviously have different sponsors. Batic, known to have won a car, campaign money; Natasa Micic's place, got a beer crate, was so sponsored that Serbia-Montenegro, according to the merits each received; the Czechs of Thaci also received, in natural form, in the form of white powder. Well, it's impossible for the opposition to know more than the government. If the opposition really knows more than the authorities, then the government has to go home. As far as I can tell, ever since we entered this building in this assembly, the opposition has always known more than the government. You seem to be just playing some power. Until this country is completely torn apart, and then you'll say, well, yes, that was all democratic. The question of whether the Serbs will be on the globe is a democratic issue. You make it all the way you want. So this thing with the legal followers, I don't know what the government was thinking. I'm telling you, the SPC will never have its legal follower. Why? Because it's indestructible. Nothing can happen to her, while there is one Serb, even if the last Serb was in The Hague. While there is a last Serb, even if he was the only one in The Hague, the SPC will exist, fortunately for us, and you think otherwise, unfortunately for you. That's right with other churches and religious communities. The Jewish religious community exists. Right? What doesn't have to mean? The Jewish religious community will move to Protestants, so they will become a legal follower. Don't tell me theorist, please. Let go of the college theory. Read what you wrote here. Don't do the comma, period, now what who thought when he wrote. Your law is disastrous, bad, unconstitutional. You know for a fact that there is a provision in the Constitution that says that it changes the proper form and under what conditions. The fact that you don't like that provision, that you personally started some procedure, tie the cat to the tail. It doesn't oblige the state. The state can't function based on the personal feelings of individual ministers. And what kind of government is this? Why didn't the government support you in your initiative, but let you out as a citizen to run. This is an unconstitutional law, to be clear. To achieve the goal there is a second time. That path is in the amendments to the SRS. Transfer the right of permanent use to churches and religious communities and help to maintain those objects of exceptional historical and spiritual importance to this people. And the end of the story. There will be no amendment at all. You'll get a round of applause from our side. But no, you shut him up, take a swing. You put the church in the first place because of your personal interests, you and a few others who think – well, now what has been taken from us will come back. The question is, who did your ancestors take from? Let's go back before your ancestors, see who they took, make a fair living at the market. And you're still predicting that it needs to be detached from the budget. It needs to be detached from the budget, the church won't do it. What are you bringing churches into conflict with believers? No church, no religious community has said – if you can't give us back two acres of forest, give us money. Why didn't she say so? It's beneath the honor of churches and religious communities, because it would be contrary to their mission on this globe of the Earth. Why are you disrespecting the churches? First, that minister demeaned when he passed the law, the first law, missed the topic. Who did he get a round of applause from? From Satanists. Who else applauded? No one else. Why are you arguing, why are you putting us all in an awkward situation? You're bringing us into an awkward situation to talk about something that is consensual. The path you choose is conflicting. Please, explain one thing to me, does a priest need guns to defend the churches and church courtyards from the thugs who enter? Do you know that today churches and religious communities have problems? In the immediate vicinity of the monastery, he illegally built the facility and the municipality would not tear down an object on a foreign land. He won't tear down the facility. With the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia and other documents, the wider territory is under special treatment because it is of exceptional importance. The state won't, local self-government won't destroy an object that's been illegally erected. Why? Because the president of the municipality doesn't belong to that faith outside whose church the facility is erected. You're talking to me now, you're gonna get your property back, so you can't enforce your laws. Now we're talking some fairy tales here, return subjects, legal followers. What a black legal follower! There's no legal succession when it comes to churches, and if you're counting on these sects, at the time nothing was taken away, because they didn't exist in this form. They were in someone else's. Your law is bad, conceptually bad, conflicting, it raises many questions quite unnecessary. As far as I'm concerned, this law wasn't necessary at all. The government of the Republic of Serbia was supposed to task the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate to make a list, list of everything taken away by churches and religious communities in 45, and to make a decision and say: The SPC is given to it for permanent use – a list, that church – a list, a religious community – list. End of story. Done. Book it in the catastro. What? State property, permanent use, that and that church and the religious community. And the end of the story. You could've ended it with the government's decision. You need a campaign. Whenever there's a local election, someone gets arrested, you know. Here are the local elections now arresting someone again, and you're pushing these additional elections to realize that it has nothing to do with the election will of the citizens. You are slowly changing the election will of the citizens. Look, it's very interesting and funny right now, but when you get it on the ground, it's very painful, you know. Very painful. Everyone will resent you, remember what I told you. In these two years, you have managed to argue with all those who have come under the influence of one of the laws that has been passed in the meantime. With everyone, remember. Remember, see for yourself, make a retrospective, look at a little bit of this agency, it doesn't matter, it's set, it's not fixed, it's not fixed, you're going to see, you're bringing conflict regulations. Let me make it very simple for you, very simple anyway, clearly. When you signed with Solana the Belgrade Agreement, you praised him – he solved all our problems. When you brought the Constitutional Charter – it's all settled, it's the brothers kissing, etc. And then we were convicted when we told you where you were stuck, you're destroying the state. This has nothing to do with it, remember! As soon as you started thinking about it, it was a disaster. No, you don't know, you're primitive, simple. As that Covic said -- radicals, dogs of war. Just a year and a half after that, they are no longer extremists in Kosovo and Metohija, but terrorists. When the SRS says they're terrorists, we're dogs of war for Covic. When he says, it's already a wise state-of-the-art policy. We who are immutable with our attitudes, because we have no need to change, because we know what this is about, we suffer constant criticism and we constantly justify ourselves to someone. You're changing attitudes as you get up in the morning. And you attack with them, and with them you will join the coalition, and these coalitions, and those coalitions, and here and there. Make sure you don't recalculate.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27364	Thank you. The word has the minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr. Parivodic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27365	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to respond to a few statements that were intended to provoke me, to react because the arguments against our law are gone. So the arguments you're making are jumbled, vague. So the concepts you put out are communist. That's not how I think. I'm thinking modernly, I'm thinking on the basis of civilization principles, general recognitions, not concepts that you've learned about some time in which you must have experienced your life's peak. You mention my personal interest and my property. I can tell you here that nothing has been taken from me or my ancestors except city building land and graves. So, nothing was nationalized to me that would make me fight terriblely for denationalization. I am a terrible fight for denationalisation, because I have a terrible belief in the rule of law, in the freedom of the citizens of Serbia and in their property security. And because I believe that the state should give justice to its citizens, that everyone will be equal to the law and everyone has the right to property, whether it was created by him or his ancestor. Everything else is a mess for me to see. Furthermore, as far as education is concerned, Mr. Krasic, I graduated law school in 1990, with an average of 9.38. In 1995, I awarded my Master's degree in Law School; don't interrupt me, please. So, let me repeat, 9.38 at law school, degree in 1990. In 1995 he mastered law school, with a medal and published my master's degree, which you can buy at the SRJ Official Messenger, then she published. In 1997, I mastered the University College of London from International Trade Law, too, with a medal. In 1998, I passed a judicial exam of the Republic of Serbia. In 2001, I passed the patent counsel's exam before the Institute of Intellectual Property. In 2002, in December, I received my doctorate on the subject – The Frenching Treaty at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and yet I am a judicial interpreter for English. Please, Mr. Krassic, give me your academic successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27366	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27367	I'll make sure it's not too messy. I speak Serbian very fluently, Mr. Minister. I've graduated from some schools, but at a time when you guys were finishing those schools or when you were dragging pots into the sand, I was running a lot of things in this country. I've been building a lot, I've been building a lot, so when someone kicks my ass, I get really mad. When I do something and someone comes to kick my ass, it doesn't help him what University, etc. It's not gonna happen. None of this is good for these Serbian citizens that you listed. Now, if it weren't to be squirming, it wouldn't mean anything to me. There is a big difference, Mr Parivodic, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your position and the position of the SRS. You've all been talking very nicely here, but you've just forgotten about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. How can you skip the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I'm just going to warn you of two norms, one norm that obliges all citizens, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to respect the Constitution and the law, it also says that all state officials are obliged to respect the Constitution and the law. You, Mr. Parisian, are obliged to obey the Constitution and the law. You are obliged, when you go to this speaker, to take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to see that you have not broken a provision in your mind, not in words, but when you get up to see it – did I think wrong? You know for yourself that from 1990 to today, probably some other time, a great dispute is also being fought in theory, in court practice, in politics, how state property can change its own form. And you, personally, were initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court to dismiss that provision of the Constitution, but it exists. You didn't need an average of 9.6 for that. You could have been 6.25, like Zoran Stankovic, you could have realized that without any regulation, so you don't need an average. It is only necessary to read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's clearly in him. Something we wanted to do noblely, not to attack you anymore, but to say, we see that you don't know, to make this text fit the Constitution. What's the possibility? The possibility is this – the right to use permanently is transferred. You say communist. I don't know if it's communist or not communist, it says in our Constitution. Let me remind you, this constitution passed the referendum. You who are here now and who have long promised to bring a new constitution, have not yet come to the predicate text, pre-committees, subcommittees, is not yet in phase. As you can see, what you have 9.36 is mixed, no effects at all. When I was a little bit of a hero like you, and I say, you are all illiterate before us, just like you, you are a young man, you are still envied, you know what my Jordan the deceased said to me, God rest his soul – well, my son, while we are uneducated, these countries will be, and when you come in writing, there will be nothing of it. You just confirmed, not only you but also Bubalo, Pitic and Djelic, you were just confirming what my late father kept telling me, with the difference that I remembered what my father told me, so when Mr, etc. appeared. I open these eyes because there's a lot of things coming out of those mouths, a lot of times something that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27368	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27369	I still haven't heard anything about Mr Krasic's academic successes, which claims we're uneducated.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27370	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vojislav Kostunica should be careful who he sends to the National Assembly if he has not already looked after who he chooses as minister. I still don't know what motives to become a minister, I don't know how your MP group agreed with it, you were indeed an absolute surprise to all the political parties and all the people who follow scientific achievements and the political achievements of certain people, but you came to the Assembly to promote yourself, your ideas, your desires, your goals, your demands. Mr. Minister, this is not what the Assembly is for. I want you to publish the book, interview the newspaper, go on TV. The Minister does not come to the assembly to express his passion to the MPs. I don't care if you have the passion to return some property. Is that motive to come to the assembly, to show your passion here on us? Because you, Mr. Minister, do not respect the Constitution, you want to convince me that we will pass a law that will be respected, and in the procedure of passing the law, you do not respect the Constitution. Let me introduce you, as an excellent lawyer, to Article 3(1). The constitution -- "In the Republic of Serbia, everything that is not prohibited by the Constitution and by law is free." You are forbidden by the Constitution to pass a law by which you convert state property into the property of a church. It's forbidden by the Constitution, Mr. Minister. You can bring your references to infinity here. You might well defend other people's patents, maybe you'd be excellently representing people with that judicial exam, all of which I accept, your references are brilliant, but you don't know what the Assembly is and you don't know what the Constitution is. I'd rather accept that you don't know the constitutional provisions than know them, and that as a man who teaches the children of the Constitution and the law, you're trampling them this brutally. Mr. Minister, in the debate in principle, I warned you that you were unable to bring a constitution that would suit you. Do not ignore and carry out your will and your passion. Fight passionately to bring a constitution under which this law will be possible. This law is impossible to pass, and if there is ever a Constitutional Court, it will declare many of the provisions of this law unconstitutional. Then what are you going to do? I'm tired of discussing private law. In the last two months since the elections have occurred, only private laws. I recognize the minister in the bill, I recognize a political party or a parliamentary group. Here I recognize the private law of Vojislav Kostunica and you, absolutely private law, by your defending it with passion, and Vojislav Kostunica no longer has the passion for anything, so he sent one who has passion. Don't show that passion on us. Never ask an MP what kind of school he's finished and what his academic references are, because that's the humiliation of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, if you didn't know. Even for ministers, there is no law that they must be doctors of science, regular professors of college, academics, and only for MPs. The more colorful society in this congregation, the better the congregation, and you know it very well. I don't know who, besides yourself, you've offended by bringing out your qualities. I would much prefer it, Mr. Minister, if I were from the explanation of the bill, that I understood from your answers that you were a professor. If you had to tell me you were a professor, then something's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27372	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27373	I very much believe in the democracy of the people's representatives, and that means that people, regardless of their formal education, can not only deal with politics, but be elected MPs. It is completely legitimate and it is part of modern democracy, it is an aspect of modern democracy and I fully agree with Mr Nikolic. It wouldn't have occurred to me to talk about my education if Mr Krasic hadn't raised that question and said we were uneducated. He initiated the topic, and that's why I made my argument that I thought I was educated, but I haven't heard Mr. Krasic's arguments yet, which is why he feels his educational superiority, let's say, compared to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27374	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27375	At least I know I'm passionate, even though I'm DSS, or passionate. I just want to say that I don't want to go into this debate whether the minister knows what the National Assembly is or not, but it seems to me that some of us sitting here don't respect the National Assembly in the right way, because it's just amazing that one MP here excuses a Serbian citizen who chose him or participated in the elections, that he is a bear, a bearer or a "mutty". We've heard this in various campaigns, but we haven't heard it at the National Assembly speaker. The DSS and the people doing the campaign in Bor will not say a single bad word about the SRS candidate, Mr Rankic, will not say a single ugly word for this assembly speaker, as they did not say in the previous elections we won. Mr. Rade Milovanovic of Bora is an educational worker, born Boranin, teaching the fighting children, everything is, but not a mutated and honest man. Therefore, the bear is not, the bear is not, as Mr Tomislav Nikolic or Aca Vukic have the right to go to the campaign and support their candidate, as well as every member of the DSS, even if he is a minister, has the right to go and support Vela Ilic, as president of New Serbia, because this is our common candidate. Therefore, it is a legitimate right, it is a democratic right and it is done everywhere in the world. We will not call any of the SRS candidates ugly words, but I can only thank those who speak so from this pay phone, because it will help Mr. Radet Milovanovic win in Bor, which he will certainly do. You know that, and that's why this nervous performance was behind the pay phone. Rade Milovanovic will surely win in Bora and thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27376	MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27377	Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask you to interrupt the session, I have now received information that the MP Nedjeljkovic is extremely ill and that doctors are fighting for his life, and here he is sick in the O.R. Really, I don't think it makes sense, they even say there's no way to recover it, so I'd like to ask you to interrupt the session until we know the real information.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27378	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I'm setting a break for an hour, and we'll see how we do later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-24-0.u27379	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the work of the session was interrupted in the morning and Mr. Mihailovic, who at that time chaired the meeting, after a announcement by Mr. Tomislav Nikolic that it had illed MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, gave a break of an hour. In contrast, I have informed all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament that we will open a session at 15.00 hours. First of all, I ask you to pay our respects to the late MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic for a minute of silence. A minute of silence. Oh, thank God! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me be a good speaker from this place, but I think it's important that both the public and the media and representatives of different levels of executive power, on behalf of all of you, say a short letter. For two-and-a-half years, we've been listening to each other for two-and-a-half years, and you've said a lot about this pay phone, because it's the life of politics. That's why you're here, that's why we're all here, because we represent all citizens of the Serbian state. There were no objections, no procedurals, to a democratic election based on the elections called in 2003. In contrast, there is, and is often forgotten in these difficult times, the life of politics, the life of the state and the lives of the people, of the individuals. The life of politics allows, it is a commitment, a party, citizens who voted in favour of the electoral lists, that people here debate, that through a democratically envisaged procedure they participate or do not participate in certain discussions, do everything to help, in a way that they choose both their parties' decisions and their electoral lists, to improve the laws or prevent them from adopting them. It's a life of politics and that life is sometimes more active, sometimes less active. There's a life of the state. It is often forgotten in these public transmissions, as it is now, that the life of the state cannot stop, but that it depends on the lives of individuals, and the lives of individuals can stop. Today at 11pm for this pay phone, I was here where Mr. Angelkovic now spoke, representing the interests of the citizens, his party and his electoral lists, Mr. Miroslav Nedeljkovic. Just two minutes ago, we gave him the mail. Often in all these polemics, in all these TV videos, it's not clear to people. Parliament makes 250 MPs. None of them individually, nor those who formally represent the Assembly, but also each of them individually, those in their workplace, as citizens of Serbia in each job, except that they participate in the life of politics and make the highest level of government of the state, they die in the workplace. They don't differ from all the other citizens. The Serbian Parliament, you can see it on the site, was the first to publish a detailed informant, based on the law it passed, in which you have all the data that you can use or abuse in a political argument. There's no record. When I first mentioned it, they told me it was rude, because here's what the papers say, here's what television reports, here's what parliament is like. No, that's not rude. Four MPs are not alive from that first convocation at this time. I think that all those who remember only occasionally that this is a summation, as well as any of the following, bodies that do not stop for one moment working 365 days a year, at the cost of personal loss and personal life, may not know that sitting under this flag and under this coat of arms is a risk for each and every one of you, even if he himself participates in a discussion, to preserve, preserve and raise that coat of arms and that flag. We've got to keep this in mind at all times, this has to be in your family's hands, this has got to be public opinion. What the notice is is, whether or not the demands of some parliamentary group, today's session will not continue in particular. At the same time, I am informing everyone that, due to the need of the state that you individually represent, tomorrow at 10 a.m., the debate will continue in detail. It is necessary that this parliament wrap up the session of the regular session tomorrow. That is why, in this understanding, I thank you all for this willingness, and once again I ask that in all the discussions, and it is good to have a good discussion, this is what Parliament does, we are aware that, however we are, in all these discussions, it is an inevitable component of something that really represents the people of Serbia and what can really be threatened in each and every one of you individually. Thank you again and again my condolences to Mr. Nedeljkovic's family. Among other things, his performance today and this sad occasion made this letter possible, however inappropriate it may be at the moment. Thank you. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, before we continue the work of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, we will determine the quorum. I find that on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Veroljub Stevanovic. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE (RESTITUTIONS) OF THE IMPROVAL OF THE C ChurchES AND THE WRITING COMMUNITIES (single) Before that is a statement. All members of the Legislative Committee shall immediately sit in a small room. Be nice, it's important because of the course of the session. Thank you. We're going to work on the amendments. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. Here you go, Mr. Stevovic.
