ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28716	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No one has reported the prevention of attending the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a violation of the political honor that exists on the political scene of Serbia, which comes from the president of the DS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. It is obvious that Boris Tadic and DS consider it necessary to ban all other political parties, that only his political party participate in the elections and, if possible, ban other politicians in his political party, in order to best win the elections. I believe that even then they would not win the elections in Serbia. What is happening in Serbia right now is the fear of some of the next elections and possible election results. I want to make it clear that since it is Boris Tadic's request that the prosecutor and the competent state authorities, practically, the SPS ban, I want to say very clearly and precisely that we have already survived and lived through it. If anyone thinks it scares us, I think he's six years late. We have also managed to endure the attempt to destroy, attempt to arrest, attempt to divide and intimidate the SPS, and have again become one of the most significant political factors on Serbia's political scene. What is happening by the DS is precisely the fear that the SPS will be an inevitable political factor in Serbia's political scene after the next elections. What is the moral right of that party, which within three years has managed to fall so quickly? It's a great success to come to power. They fought for it for ten years, and in three years they managed to fall. A party that seduced dictatorship, a party that seduced the state of emergency, a party that arrested more people than Pinoca, a party that closed the media, who listened to journalists and listened to politicians, a party at which time the authorities voted from Bodrum, not from these benches, for which there was a court ruling, and at the time Boris Tadic was party vice president, Pajtic, president of the parliamentary group. Shall we ban them too? They turned Serbia into Serbia's Gestapo and Serbia's witness associates. They have seen more people who killed Djindjic than all SPS MPs and members of the most senior SPS leadership in their lives. Have them ban everything, cancel the transmission, print only one newspaper where Tadic's picture will be. (President: Mr. Dacic, you've exceeded your time. ) Have them make television and radio receivers that can only catch one station – B92. Let them arrest everyone, introduce the death penalty, as Batic used to say, but they will have to do it individually and personally. They don't have as many judges and prosecutors or cops as there are. So the message to everyone - don't play with fate, don't cause chaos, don't cause October 5th to come before October 5th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28718	The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Before I give you my word, Mr. Dacic, I understand you need to go out for a pay phone, but this is the Assembly and we need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure or by the Rules of Procedure, you can get the word, and what you need to say to the Serbian public I understand, but this is the Assembly where we do one parliamentary job and please, other MPs, to adhere to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28719	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago we witnessed a verdict by Naser Oric in The Hague. That man has been sentenced to two years for criminal record. Last night, who watched on National TV this report, saw the crimes behind that man and his like remain there. I believe that every reasonable man and citizen of Serbia is for all criminals to be responsible for the crimes they have committed, regardless of which national order they come from. The parliament, as the most legislative body in Serbia, must not remain closed eyes and ears to the fact that the UN tribunal has reached such a verdict. I have no custom, and I don't think it's appropriate to interpret the verdicts of any court, but this is such a verdict that this House cannot close its eyes to. We must publicly state that we are against the work of the UN tribunal, and because of those many innocent victims lying in graves after everything that's been going on in these premises. So, I invite you here together to raise your voice against such work by the UN tribunal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28720	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28721	Mr. Chairman, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, the famous question of the dignity of the National Assembly. In the SPS, we believe that the national assembly's absolute dignity is threatened by the way President Boris Tadic, who, interestingly, presents himself as president of the Republic of Serbia at party meetings and also insults political opponents. It is interesting that Mr Tadic, the president of the DS, whom the public represents as president of the Republic of Serbia, spoke about politics at the meeting Saturday, speaking about agriculture, and spoke about something that has no small difference and is not true. It's interesting that he slandered the SPS, accused her of something she didn't do, and it's interesting that it's not true. Mr Tadic violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because it is falsely represented at DS meetings that he is the president of the Republic of Serbia. If it were the President of the Republic of Serbia, then he would speak on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and he only speaks on behalf of the DS. He told a notorious lie about the case of Ivan Stambolic, because, no offense, I think Dusan Mihajlovic, as interior minister, knows better than he knows what happened in the late 1990s, especially after 2000. When Dusan Mihajlovic says that Slobodan Milosevic has nothing to do with it, then Boris Tadic tells the truth, or lies. It is interesting to mention what Boris Tadic did not say. And that's what to say. He visited the surrounding countries and talked about establishing a system of values that we should all share. Is the value system what my dear colleague mentioned that Naser Oric was charged with killing 100 people for two years? Is this a system of values that Boris Tadic is propagating? Is this a system of values Serbia should accept? Is the system of value that the Croatian parliament adopted the resolution on "Storm"? Believe it or not in that resolution, according to our media, they say it was a winning and decisive action that must be understood as an international Allied War Operation, and it is necessary for us and our neighbours to know that wars would not be repeated and that they would return to our premises and that a part of all of us would be realized. Look out, that's what Croatia says on the day Boris Tadic goes there. Remember that shameful apology on behalf of Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who authorised him to apologize on behalf of Serbia if parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not make any resolution, decision or any act that would give the right to the President of the Republic to say such a thing. He's not the president of all citizens, he's the president of the DS and he's acting like one. It's a shame he abuses his function. It's not yesterday, it works a few months back. It goes to the glory of the DS, goes to municipalities where the DS people are headed and presents themselves as president of the Republic of Serbia. Then it would be good if he told us what that DS was doing in the 1990s, so he could show us that he's practically the president of everyone. Let him not forget to tell us that the party requested the bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999, let him tell us that the party's leaders went and organized lectures in Western Europe and received money to justify our country's aggression, let him tell us that they robbed Serbia, let him tell us that a thousand of the best businesses sold for two billion euros, let him tell us, let him apologize to Serbia!- I'm sorry. Boris Tadic will no longer be Serbia's president and it is shameful that he abuses his post for his party's political interests. If there is even a little dignity on party soups, let him say it as the president of the DS, not that it is falsely represented in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28722	Thank you. We're continuing our work. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE FREE ZONES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Gordana Pop-Lazić, Mileta Poscurica, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajić, Sreto Perić, Miljko Četrović, Branislav Rankić, Milovan Radovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Natasa Jovanovic, Bora Kutić, Milorad Mirčić, Milorad Buha, Milan Stevović, Tihomir Đurić, Zoran Krasić, Darko Glisić, Verojub Arsic, Petar Jojević, Tomislav Penezić, Branislav Stevanovic and Goran Jakšić, as well as a financial committee. National MP Goran Jaksic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 36. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Vice President, it is amazing that this session today, too, continues the session on the Free Zones Act in particular, we begin without the presence of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I must remind you, ten days ago, several of you were in the congregation hall when we discussed this law in principle. Minister Dinkic had nothing to say or to provide a counterargument to criticise this law by the SRS parliamentary group, saying the fact that the passing of this law is lacking is necessary, both in technical and essential terms, which is why the SRS has practically proposed a whole new law on free zones. He was very brief in that debate, with one or two sentences, and then even to me, in the replica, which I am the authorised representative of the party under this law confirmed exactly what I said, which is that the status of those municipalities in Serbia that have defined alleged free zones today is nothing, because what we would say is a dead letter on paper and because the free zones institute in our country in the right sense of the word does not exist, except that it is declared and it is regulated from the 1970s to today. Serbian citizens, and you, who want to be aware of this important law, should know what a free zone is. This is not a zone for theft, machination, marifetteluke and kidnapping, which is the most prone of DS and tycoons in the DS, but the principle of economic independence of a state in the sense that it can, through the arrangement of the work of its territory in a free zone, achieve a very significant economic prosperity and progress. There are over 5,000 free zones in the world today. Many countries have based their economic expansion on this in the last decade. You have an example of Hungary, in our immediate vicinity, i.e. a country bordering Serbia, and you have the United Arab Emirates, Singapore, and China, above all, which is the largest boom of its economy, based on the existence of free trade and customs zones. Countlessly many examples and the untapped use of our potentials, and above all by the people and with one defeating fact that we pass the law when we do not have an institutional sense, I mean, above all, the complete government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, prepared a project of Serbia's economic recovery in a strategic sense. All that has been done so far has been to clog certain holes or define alleged aid for some of Serbia's endangered ends. From that, starting with the promotion of such programmes, to concrete investments was nothing. We have a fully processed law, or what we offer as an SRS. Be assured that by the arrival of Serbian radicals, we will immediately launch and use it for a large number of people to hire them. In particular, I can tell you that only through the opening of the 28th zone of Hungary in a short time did she employ 26,000 people. And you now take the information that Minister Lalovic himself presented the day before yesterday, which will not admit the number of unemployed in Serbia, by opening up, or in the right sense of the launch of free zones in Serbia, what would mean for our economy and for our unemployed people. We have before us the fact that certain municipalities, such as the City of Novi Sad, have made decisions at the level of their cities on the work of these economic zones, i.e. local and regional chambers of commerce. However, customs, import, export and all other barriers, all the difficulties in which the Serbian economy is burdened, make it difficult for these people to work and work. When we get to Article 5, point 5, which is a kind of re-registration, i.e. giving consent to a legal entity to start work, you will see that Dinkic himself wanted to make a monopoly for himself in terms of free zones and probably for his loved ones. I understand why he will not and does not want the Free Zone Institute to develop on market principles with the help of the state in the City of Novi Sad. Because there is the most successful mayor in Serbia, Serbian Radical Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and his political party, or already called, has only three council members. There was a question a few days ago -- how MPs from that party from any ruling coalition would vote in the voting day for such a law on funding of local self-government that is very harmful and that in the beginning takes 30 billion transfer funds to cities and municipalities, and hence, when it comes to a large city such as Novi Sad, such as Kragujevac, the share of these funds will be greater, i.e. those cities will receive less. You keep talking, but only in the floscules and declarative of European and world integration, as which minister appears, as one learned – a trained MP to say it as a broken record, and we need this, we need what, when concrete solutions come up, you are unable to do anything. If you are already talking about future admission to a world trade organisation, then you should know that this international institution is now promoting the free zone institute as a very large driver for international economic exchange. A total of 20% of international trade exchanges, can even up to 30%, my colleague says, I have that data, it can be viewed one way or another, depends on who publishes them and who is doing the statistical representation through the Free Zones Institute. We have a situation in Serbia, that currently in our economy (in addition to robbery privatisation, people being jobless, the social programme, without their hope for a future, so that they can employ) the level of foreign direct investment and investment remains very low. I mentioned several times, just like the MPs of the SRS, and pointed out a major project and undertaking, primarily the personal engagement of Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mrs Maja Gojkovic on direct foreign investment won by the City of Novi Sad, which has free zone status. I'll read to you later on the review that the mayor and her associates delivered to me on the functioning, i.e. the failure of the free zone and the fact that these facilities in the area of the city have not been used enough. If a man, Tomislav Nikolic, could have provided a direct investment of 609m euros to build a gas thermopower plant in Novi Sad for a short time, why, if they were capable, such as ministers or prime ministers or authorities in local self-government, would be a problem to start their free zones. It's not just a matter of ability, it's a matter of whether you want to make some progress or not for your city or your country. Usually that's what everyone promises when campaigns are pre-election. We have an example of Lapovo municipality, as the debate takes place on these points, since this is the opening amendment where Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is in a much more precise way on behalf of the SRS than the Proposer has done, defining what a free zone is, and we will show you these, on paper alone, well-imagined projects such as the Lapovo Free Zone project, which is on the international highway, which has a strategic geographical significance, but only two OMV pumps on one side and the other. We Serbian did this six years ago, after the 5th October coup, we called the auto-ideal project, in fact, the con of the electoral body since then, the Dossovo Summit in Lapovo, an oasis of Dosovo fraud, and that is indeed so. I also have before me a sort of memorandum of the municipality of Zrenjanin, the municipal council, of the then executive board of SO, which defined what a free zone is and what the development and economic prospects of the Zrenjanin municipality are in the launch of a free zone. When you look, nothing. Tell me, in what free zone in Serbia do you have production? You don't have any. You've got some low-level trades and that's all. What is it that we can produce here? What is it that Serbia is exporting to the foreign market anyway? On Friday, I was in one of the villages where the largest production of Serbian raspberries, the village of Katici, is in the municipality of Ivanovica. The locals asked me, especially one gentleman named Branko, (nothing means to you either his name or his last name) to tell you, to the MPs who support this government and who have supported the previous Dossov government headed by DS, that they are completely humiliated and ruined, because Serbia is no longer a leading exporter of raspberries in the world and in Europe. And that's how Poland and the Czech Republic overcame us, and I'm not talking about this development work in neighbouring Bulgaria, where we are right now. What's the price for the highest quality purchase of raspberries this year? 50-55 dinars and on the day when suddenly there was a drastic change of time as I climbed to the altitude of 1400 meters in which no political representative except Serbian radicals came, these people looked at the sky as to what would happen and how to save their generation this year, and for the past year, they were not paid a purchase of raspberries of 40 or 30 dinars, depending on how anyone went, as you yourself know there were these great waves of floods and rain waves last year during the purchase of raspberries. It is pointless then to talk to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Kostunica, who authorised Mladjan Dinkic to explain a project of free zones in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and he is not in the Assembly Hall. That is why today we will address only the citizens of Serbia and those living in municipalities where it has been declared, or where the continent of free zones is surrounded and we will give them concrete solutions. We Serbian radicals think that in these free zones we first bring companies ready to achieve significant productivity, or production level, because, at the outset, during the first amendment, Mrs Pop-Lazic to mention an example of Turkey where, for a very short time, more than 500 international leading world companies have been registered there with the production and employment of workers. I am absolutely sure that in all municipalities and cities where Serbian radicals are in power, and especially by winning the SRS at the republican level, this job, or economic institute, free zone status can and how well it develops and that even as a state, we are going through progress and above all exporting something. In the latest review for the first quarter of this year, only a few items of exports from Serbia to the rest of the world are for last year. If you look at how many friendly countries and strategically and economically bond with each other through the Free Zones Institute, you don't need anything anymore. We are incomparably, who knows how many hundreds of thousands of times and in millions of people, hundreds of millions or billions of smaller countries than China, but we should take advantage of the development opportunity with the country, with the Russian Federation and above all, to ask this government a question, because of this and because of all other mistakes and for robbing Serbian citizens, why is this not used? Why do we as a country (now you have an example and a ruined textile industry "Javor", while we're talking about Ivanji Municipality), we don't have a textile industry, and last year, it seems to me, at this time, that we adopted a resolution about the facilitating circumstances when it comes to customs in the area of the textile industry. These are all questions that require an answer to which ministers should answer. Will you introduce a day when MPs, seeing as it was a theme during the weekend in certain media, will answer our parliamentary questions, it doesn't matter. Whatever they say, the ministers of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, neither he himself nor this fraud who calls himself the president of Serbia, and only the president of the DS, have anything to offer in terms of the development of Serbia's economy. It will, however, wait for us, and under the proposal of this law, or the amendment of Serbian radicals, you will see that it is feasible, that we have serious people, ready projects and ready development opportunities for Serbia, which, if God and people will, in what I am sure, we will succeed in a short time to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28724	On the amendment, it is the People's MP Goran Jaksic. Before I give you my word, just one explanation, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, has an appointment for Ireland, travels only tonight, I have a promise and notice that he will be here in an hour and a half. His associate is here. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is not mandatory for the minister to be present when we are discussing in particular, but I believe that his associate will pass on everything that is being discussed and sought here, so the minister will be familiar with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28725	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, it is a rare opportunity in Serbia to agree in the Serbian parliament, in the National Republic of Serbia Assembly and the positions and opposition, as the parliamentary groups, or parties in parliament, agree that one such law is needed and that, in reality, there are no fundamental objections to the proposal for a law formally given by the Government, which was created by the working group, where MPs from the National Assembly participated, MPs G17 plus. It would not be worse to mention that the importance of free zones was seen several years ago, regardless of who was in power then and how it worked, I have no intention of politicising, but the law that was then at the level of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which later worked and which was applied at the level of the Republic of Serbia, has shown many shortcomings. The organisation itself and the approach to resolving free zones issues, the promotion of free zones and the development of free zones did not produce adequate results, as there was no adequate support in the law itself, and also in the relevant institutions, above all those falling under the government. Free zones are really a place, and here I agree with my previous colleague, where it is necessary to make up such a program to make use of the zones, because I am a supporter of the idea that other people's experience is best, that there is no need to invent hot water and that what others have applied and, on the basis of that, for their people, for their country, it should apply it in this country and use those principles. So, free zones in Serbia should be a place of development, and that is precisely in the period until we came, unfortunately, so to be an EU member and this government sees, I must say, very progressively, the possibility that through free zones in a period when we are not in that EU, to make promotions, that is, to promote all those values and all those potentials that we have as a state and as an economy at the moment. Free zones in the world are indeed a place of export, a place of production, which is also very important where 30% of exports are realised. It's not an accident, and it's a story of someone else's experience and someone else's mind, and we have to use it, and if someone saw it and applied it, I think it's a place to apply it. There was a law here that was passed from federal SRJ to the state of Serbia, but the law was definitely not entirely good and proved to have adequate shortcomings. With this bill of law that we have, it is now the amendment of the same law, some things are also about defining and operating the zone, the way all zones are set up, the rules of all those zones that have to be strict. So, some things are liberalized, things that have been assessed from the experience of functioning in the previous period of the old law, rules that have caused certain problems, and that is why, in January and February respectively, a certain number of zones have lost the right to work. In the bill of this law, these distractions have been removed, but at the same time, in some parts of the law, certain things have been raised to a level of greater responsibility, to a level of greater discipline and obligation, both those who establish zones, which run zones, and also those who will work tomorrow in free zones. It's very important to mention the story of production. Zones are the place where production should be organised and it is true that in some previous period, we talked about it when we represented the law, very few zones dealing with precisely production and very few zones applied exactly those advantages that the zones should have. So I'm going to do it again, some of the causes of that condition were made by the old law, and that's really real. On the other hand, there was not enough involvement of the state in promoting all the benefits that have free zones. Production exists in some areas. One of the reasons why some zones lost their right to work is that they did not have an appropriate level of production. The rest are production zones, not entirely accurate data that production is missing, one of the most successful zones is the Pirot Free Zone, where one of the largest exporters, i.e. he has most of the production, which is the "Tiger" from Pirot. And there's a few other companies, but not to make a commercial now, because there's no need for that, but there's these things. I will only mention to what extent there was interest in the government, but we are now in Parliament, and let me also mention Parliament as the most legislative body. In the adoption of the VAT Act, it was precisely from the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, which called on the National Assembly, that the proposal was made, and this was put forward, that VAT on action in export-related areas should not be paid. It's something we didn't invent, because there's no need to qualify our brains and wisdom. It is a principle that is in all zones in the world, especially in the successful ones, and the VAT is also with us, although the smallest in Europe and the world is 18%, the profit rate for many serious companies, and when you have a law that releases all those who deal with exports in free zones for those 18% is a huge incentive. I think we'll all agree here, because that's one reason why production starts in free zones. It was a law that was not directly related to free zones, but related to their functioning and with these amendments to the law, the VAT law we made possible and increased the interest of investors either domestic, any foreign investment, organisation of production in free zones, and it is very important for this country, and this is production defined for export. Of course, it's just one of the models. We have also announced in the law that there will be additional reliefs. I believe and expect the support of the government, but also of all MPs, that even in other obligations they have the relief of potential users and companies working in free zones, to enable through tax obligations the incentive to function in free zones and invest in free zones, which means, clearly, there are then new jobs, new salaries and new production needed here in this Serbia. We now have a situation which is not, when we talk about amendments, seen in this conference, and I think in the previous, how much I have followed the functioning of the Assembly in earlier years, in the amendments, we do not have, and we have received from the SRS, direct objections to the members themselves and given solutions, but through amendments one kind of promotion of one bill, one parliamentary group. Interesting principle, I have to admit, but it's not very common and I don't know how we're going to conduct a debate at all when it comes to amendments. I hope that the debate will, above all, be objective, because it is very visible and we all see the need for better functioning of free zones, to exploit the potential we have in the free zones and that those 4% of the exports Serbia achieved in 2002, through free zones, we raise at least ten times more. That we, in the end, as a state and as a government, and also as a Parliament, help finance, invest and work our citizens in free zones and get paid through the functioning of companies as part of free zones. I really expect Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, to come, although I think we can conduct the debate very constructively and as well. The task force has made this law and there are people here who have participated in the creation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28726	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28727	Mr. Vice President, you will explain to us a little later that you have not said anything about Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment, which is much more precise and better in article 1 in defining the free zone than the one you have suggested, so I don't know how to call you this task force. I don't know what the government of the Republic of Serbia and you individuals are doing to talk to us about some kind of public debate and working groups, and you are now somewhat superior to the MPs who are criticising, in particular, the SRS, or are trying to be. You, in particular, have a spokesman in your party who doesn't know and hasn't heard of the name of the municipality of Razanj. The other night I was watching, she was visiting on a Kragujevac local television, thinking, a younger woman, Grbićka, says it's a smaller town in southern Serbia. This one is looking to help her, a town in the South, doesn't know how to remember, and then this one finally tells her – Razanj. So, the spokesmans don't even know the names of the cities in Serbia, and you're saying now that you don't know how you're going to continue to conduct a controversy with us about this law. Here's how, to concrete facts, and especially because of the second attitude that is very important, which was proposed by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. Perhaps in this first part we can find a common line with your proposed text of the law, what is a free zone and that this law regulates the position of a free zone, or the conditions for the establishment and operation of free zones. Later, when we specifically came to the data on what they are and what Tental's torments certain municipalities have had to go through over decades to maintain the status of free zones and to establish it, and only those they intend to do, it is a disaster, because such barriers, especially in the customs sense, are the total level of external trade, without talking about the general environment and our economy, in free zones 1% in Serbia. What's 30%, what you just said on my character, or the fact that it's 20%, and it's up to 30%, in Serbia it's 1%, it's 30 times less than in a normal country. Maybe Hungary's recording 40% at the moment. Maybe some other country that's more expansional started with that job. But it was very important that, although the promoter did not want it, he is not here, nor is he engaged in this debate, and God knows that he does, and he knows where Razanj is, because he was there once, but he has not been famously – Mrs Pop-Lazic has suggested to be complemented to make a more precise amendment, that there is a second position that reads: "On the goods that are imported and exported from the zone, and the goods that are situated in the zone apply the customs controls and controls in accordance with the regulations governing the customs system and customs procedure". It may seem insignificant to you, but also how important it is, because of possible abuses and because of the fact that free zones have so far been used exclusively for trade, but this low percentage of only 1% or some have never started to function, such as the Lapovo Free Zone, which we will talk about later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28728	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28729	We understand each other here in principle. Sometimes we may not have a very good understanding, but it doesn't matter. We'll have a chance to lead the controversy here. I'm not exactly the kind of people who run the controversy in parliament, but for me, parliament is one place where a constructive debate is being held. There's this opportunity, television, rally, where we can conduct political controversy. In the very proposal for your law that you have put through these amendments, there is this second position in that first article, but that second attitude is also in the bill of law that we now have before us, which is in the debate. This attitude is given in some other members, and your objection that it does not stand. So, the bill that we have in the debate, but in other places, what is in the proposal for your amendment. We've read the amendments, and there's a lot of things in your proposals that are in the law itself, but they're something different, that's a fact. I noticed very little differences, I said a little while ago and I'll do it again. There is very little difference after the organisation by the members of certain things, and it seems to me that the biggest difference in what your amendments are, or what they say – in many places binding to the old law and some solutions to that old law, which we wanted to change and change in the bill. I think it's still one step forward of the task force. I think it's a good thing more people get involved and I don't mind. I knew the SRS had some suggestions and suggestions, and I heard those suggestions and that these proposals were discussed before this debate on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28730	Ms. Natashi Jovanovic, I am obliged to explain that nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the minister or representative of the government must be in the O.R., but writes that he has the right to participate, get the word and give the final word. Right, like any MP, you can use it and you don't have to use it. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28731	I didn't think I'd have to explain to my colleague the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Mihailovich, since you're either misreading or knowingly not reading what it says in the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to have to do it myself. Article 87. The Rules of Procedure say, "At meetings of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, they participate", so not "can", but "participate", "Members of the Government, authorised representatives of other legislators and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly". So, article 87 obliges Mladjan Dinkic to sit here today. Traveling to Ireland, that's his problem. I just wonder what he's doing in Ireland, that maybe he won't take the money from Cyprus to Ireland, maybe it's safer there now. (Milojub Albianic, from the post: I am here. What difference does it make that you're here? Are you Mladjan Dinkic? Are you "the other me" young Dinkic? Unbelievable!? Article 194(3) states: "The representatives of the Government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees may only be members of the Government and the Secretary of the Republic Secretariat for Law", so it does not say that they, if they will, are not, but may be solely members of the Government and the Secretary of the Republic Secretariat for Law, "when the session of the National Assembly is on the agenda of the draft law prepared for the Government by the Republic Secretariat for Law". Paragraph 4 of Article 194 states: "Government representatives shall participate in the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the powers laid down by the law". So, "participate," not "can," if they want to. Article 196. The Rules of Procedure say, "With the draft laws, other regulations or general acts, or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall inform the National Assembly of its representatives and trustees for meetings of the National Assembly and its committees." The government of the Republic of Serbia has informed the National Assembly that it is a representative of the proposings on this agenda point, Mladjan Dinkic. So, Mr. Mihailovich and fellow MPs, whether you like it or not, we are doing contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure today. This isn't the first time. Believe me, I may not have called to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, but I have a duty, because of citizens of Serbia who ask me at every turn how MPs of the assembly majority must not have them in the O.R., how government representatives must not participate in the work of the National Assembly. Then I very patiently explain to all the citizens, to anyone who asks me, all this stuff that's written in the Rules of Procedure, and I say I don't understand why they won't respect the Rules of Procedure, but I know they don't respect it. And I know that the government of the Republic of Serbia works exclusively by directives; translate some text of the law, propose it to the National Assembly, the assembly majority is not interested at all, the assembly majority is mostly not involved in the work, as according to the directives, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to arrest citizens of Serbia, above all Ratko Mladic. Then, what is most embarrassing is that these two, three days in public, politicians, Kostunica and Tadic come out and say the UN tribunal's decision to punish Naser Oric is shameful, but in the follow-up to the sentence they say - regardless, we must act on the request of The Hague tribunal and we must extradite Ratko Mladic. Then some "smart" come out and say -- who can now explain to Serbian citizens that The Hague tribunal is not a political and anti-Serbian court? Now I ask these representatives of the government -- how did they have to think that even after a two-year sentence decision by Naser Oric, they had the need to explain to Serbian citizens inexplicably, to explain that The Hague tribunal is not anti-Serbian and that it is not a political creation? Of course, the citizens of Serbia know that, and they know that, unfortunately, I am quite sure, both the government members and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, but they don't care about it, they are very hypocritical and they say, in order to court the citizens, like, it is a terrible decision to punish Naser Oric, but regardless, we Ratko Mladic must deliver. We hope to continue, what we say all the time, and that, regardless of this decision, there will be no extradition and that arrest, and especially after this decision to punish Naser Oric. If someone in Serbia today does not understand what the UN tribunal is, then it really does not belong to him not in politics, but in public life at all. Let him stick himself in his corner and let him tell that theory in front of the mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28732	Mrs Radeta, in one we can agree – to interpret differently what it means to participate. My opinion is that the minister, as a person representing the government, can misrepresent the government, can represent the government well, can participate briefly, can participate for longer, but it is not a question of our obligation to interrupt the sessions or not to work under the law in particular if the minister does not attend. I say, the only thing we can agree on is that we differ in the interpretation of that term. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28733	Since it's quite certain that I'm doing a good job, the Democrats are gone, the G17 plus has dried up, no one from the government of Vojislav Kostunica should enter the hall, send these people, neither guilty nor debtors, to catch any notes here. They're taking notes for nothing, that's all. Mr. Mihailovic, on that discussion from the beginning of this session, I expected that all those who came out here to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, to apologize to Serbia and to you in front of the public, because we have been attacked these months to spread something, we are thinking something, etc. You see how the time comes and they confess on their own. Those who attacked us the most were admitted this morning, and the gods and those who asked me to apologize, for days are crying out, so will they, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. That's what I have to tell you. I'm telling you all this as a prelude to understand why the amendments to the SRS should be adopted, so that after being late, great intelligence doesn't run, the voters who voted all this as the finance minister suggests. Let's take it in a row. We have proposed a brand-new concept and a brand-new draft law on free zones. How? In the form of an amendment. What amendments? Amendments to every member of the Government's proposal, so when you take all our amendments, you read, you'll see that it's a slightly longer bill than the Government's proposal and it's a much more quality law. Why is this bad law proposed to us? What could happen if the bill is adopted to defend the "justifiedly absent" Mladjan Dinkic? If the government's bill is passed, you will have chaos in Serbia, chaos on the market. That would mean something similar, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, like what we had with Neckermann. Approximately "Neckermann" would be a free zone in Croatia, here would end the business through G17 plus. Since "experts" are making some schemes, and we have made a scheme to organise fraud and robbery in Serbia by G17 plus, by doing "Neckermann" and "Quelle" from Varazdin. Of course, I don't speak in my mind, I have official documentation, state records. I stole, I came into possession, it doesn't matter how, but everything I say about this speaker refers to official documentation of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the documentation behind which the Government of the Republic of Serbia stands, with this terrible coalition capacity. The job was organized and implemented under the patronage of the Ministry of Finance (read: Mladjan Dinkić, G17 Plus). He says: "The government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance – read Mladjan Dinkic – has adopted the Regulation on customs duties on customs goods, release of customs goods and collection of customs services pursuant to Article 272. Customs law." The founding of Neckermann was conducted by Dejan Simic, he is known as member of G17 Plus, he is known for one affair that was recently. Let me explain, I'm talking about the democratic bloc, you didn't understand me, I'm talking about capacities, I'm talking about the democratic capacity that's being formed in Serbia and it's being preserved in Serbia. Like this, the catalogical sales company Neckermann, DOO Belgrade, Zrenjanski Puto, was founded following a decision to set up on 23 December 2002, and even certified power before the First Municipal Court on 13 January 2003, and as a power of attorney, Dejan Simic of Belgrade, was certified. Now, this couldn't have worked and gotten the situation from 40m to 60m euros, based on the denied sales tax duty, if the system hadn't been created. In the system is located the Director of Customs Jerinić, where G17 plus, the Head of Tax Administration Ilic, when G17 plus, at the head of the foreign inspection, also, a man from G17 Plus. All these bodies were supposed to control the catalogical sales and are all part of the Ministry of Finance. There's no control, the goods have come, I've got a whole list of regulations that have been broken, so the responsible persons who are, the full findings of all the state authorities that indicate, and even all the newspaper texts, public statements from the Ministry of Trade and other competent services. That's what an organized group of people do, G17 plus, and why they can't come here and they can't stand this criticism. Here, I call on the Prime Minister, a consistent crime fighter to just take the documentation that exists in the state authorities and let the public know if there's any crime, who's responsible, how it's done, under whose patronage. Why? Well, I can't keep the citizens of Serbia, in some fog spread by some parties that are in power against the SRS, covering up the essence of their government, which is why Labus left G17 plus. And of course, Mladjan Dinkic will plant everything on high-ranking state functions, so that it will not be very high-ranking, so that this fund-building operation is over. For those who do not read the stenogram and intend to replicate me, only one instruction to use words against Zoran Krasic – everything is written in the findings of the competent state authorities. If you replicate to me and dispute to me what I'm doing to an interpreter to bring down the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I don't mind, just to let you know in advance that you don't run out, because you run out like that, you don't know, and you don't know that I'm waiting for you at 16 more places where I can undo everything you intend to bring out. Now let's go back to what the free zone law is. Of course, what we have proposed by amendment to Article 1 and what concerns this amendment which is on the agenda of Article 2. – a whole new concept is given in relation to what the Government has imagined. Of course, these members cannot be followed because they are neither suitable by matter, so that the Government's proposal contains concepts, i.e. a member describing the meaning of certain terms used in the Bill proposal, the Government's proposal, and our Article 2 very precise rules on what is a zone and what it covers. One principle difference, if I may say so, in accessing this matter is seen in what can only be seemingly said that the Government's proposal is more liberal, but it is so liberal that it can practically work only if the Ministry of Finance is kindly. Here it goes completely wrong, here it is not agreed to the establishment of the zone but agreed to a decision to determine the area of the zone. That's where you made the mistake, that's the kind of case I didn't see, there's no such thing in the world. I must draw attention to you, in order to operate the zone, the competent state authority should give consent to enable you to carry out a single action that is deviating from the usual and normal course of performance in accordance with domestic regulations. This is about an exception justifiable where economic interest requires such an exception to be made. They've made it a lot more complicated, consent, etc. etc. The difference compared to the existing Free Zones Act, for which I would not make as many criticisms as those who have proposed this law have said, because when looked at, almost 90% of the provisions were prescribed by the previous Law. So there's no such thing as objections, there's really no such thing. Even the promoter didn't see any more significant shortcomings. The fact that some zones, i.e. free zone management companies, are not satisfied with the existing law, should be interpreted as their problem because they failed to attract foreign investors. It should be interpreted as a problem of their incompetence and should be interpreted by their efforts to make possible restrictions on the minimum part of the work that must be done for export purposes, it reportedly restricts them, as something wrong has occurred in the very idea of creating a zone. I can tell you about every zone since I used to be a little more involved in those jobs. These zones that we have today, probably 60% are political free zones, the expression of the megalomanic aspirations of certain local powers. Then they even said that the location, located on the river, on the master's road, etc., is a restriction. So when they started to tolerate it, it turned out that it wasn't really a restriction, but some people thought that they could do a lot of dirty work over the free zone, given that customs were there, so when business was tied up, it ended up with a very, very dirty job. So, I wouldn't be so prepared to criticise the existing law, and he's not a distraction. And in our proposal there are no restrictions, there can be a minority zone in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, by giving an advantage, not more advantage than as a recommendation to take care of communication, because it is impossible to create a free zone in a remote location that has problems both with the way and with electricity and with water and with accumulation and with complete infrastructure. There and when the zone was made, she'd be suspicious at first. Our proposal takes care of clean bills, the state only, as much as necessary, interferes in the work of free zones, there is freedom. In our proposal we allow both transfer and reinvestment, more clearly define the ban on expropriation and nationalisation compared to the Government proposal and many, many other provisions are at a higher level and much more high quality. So the central difference is that you're apparently giving liberalisation, but you're building a system that can't work without Dad from the finance ministry. We introduce known sizes, we prescribe conditions by law, who meets the conditions, will get consent to set up a zone, the procedure is in yours and in our proposal quite similar, which deadlines are needed, and we recognise the possibility that without paying taxes, construction material for building buildings within the zone etc. I would recommend, Mr. Mihajlovic, that you inform the government's representative that what the SRS is proposing is far more quality than theirs, I would say, a scrawny proposal. They needed something different from the existing law, and wherever they went to differ, they made a mistake. But you can see that that mistake is intentional. Why? A man can make a mistake once and for the second time in his life, for the third time he can't, because if he makes a mistake, then she's a category for "Laza Lazarevic". How many times did Serbia have a chance to see how many people were burned by those who trusted the government over this bill. We need to be careful. You know, who the snake burns, he's afraid of the lizard. That's why we've submitted the amendments, to seduce some order, and to convince you to adopt the amendments, not to pass the bill that the government has proposed, because if this law passes, you have to be convinced that the zones will be in an even more difficult situation. A much more difficult situation for them comes under your Bill of Law when the Director of Customs Administration is changed, I guarantee you, because all personal combinations fall between the customs office in the free zone, the zone management companies and those who operate in the zone. Make sure you don't make a mistake, so the state doesn't make any reports again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28734	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP, Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28735	Thank the chairman. What the last speaker said, I hope he's absolutely right, that the new bill will disable any private ties, people who run zones, people who work in customs zones, customs administrations, and all customs jobs at all. It is precisely one of the reasons why certain things are served by this bill, because there have been cases, it is true, that in areas occasionally use appropriate connections, use the benefits that the law foresees when it comes to the area, not for the development of production, not for the development of everything that should be encouraged by free zones, but for certain combinations, combinations, etc. We know perfectly well, I'm glad there's more people who've been doing this, informed about what's going on and what's going on in the free zones, because then we understand each other very well what we're talking about. Again, I fully agree that the new law prevents further mixing when it comes to customs transactions and possible customs reliefs and benefits. If we make a little fun of ourselves, it may not be good for you to criticize, to a large extent, the proposal for this law given by the Government, because, as we have now agreed in the course of the principle debate, and these few amendments, there is a huge resemblance between the draft law given by the Government and what your party has given through the amendments. So don't be too critical of what's almost the same in one proposal or another. The joke aside, when it comes to the second amendment to Article 2, although it does not have direct correspondence to this law, almost everything you have given in this amendment is covered by the bill we have today at the debate. The decision you have proposed in Article 2 and in your amendment is present in Article 10. Proposal for a law, as well as in Article 13. The bill of law, it's almost all there is to what you said, but in another organization. I am a man who has worked in the economy for many years, here is a more precise concept given, is divided into the bill, a certain activity, that is, areas that the law is considering, and it is done precisely with the intention of being more clear to those who are users of the zone and that this is not just a law, but to be some kind of guide, which I think needs future financiers, that the law is a kind of practical instruction, what needs to be done and what the law allows, and what the law defends when it comes to organisation and the work of a free zone. Some of the technical things that are needed to be arranged in the organization of one zone will be defined through other members of the bill, and will be in certain acts, as technical matters are concerned, must be brought and followed by future administrations for the zones. When it comes to State interference, I can agree that the state got a little mixed up in free zones, but I think it's bad. If free zones are the potential of this country, which is potential, not to enter into any economic-financial debate, there is time for that, therefore, if it is potential, and yes, we all agree, then the state needs a little more to interfere. But to interfere with the regulation of laws that will directly and indirectly follow those laws and have appropriate incentive measures, the appropriate interest of the state and its authorities, which are paying taxpayers, that the state is making appropriate promotions and that it creates appropriate positive conditions for financing and development of production in the zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28736	People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mihajlovic, I would like, although I have listened to Verica Radet, to warn you once again of a violation of article 87, and this is not a formality, that someone would go out for a pay phone and say something against the representatives of the government, it is because of the respect of the National Assembly, for the respect of the citizens of Serbia. The article reads: "The National Assembly meetings, in addition to the MPs, are attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who are calling for the president of the National Assembly." You have called here a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The Minister, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, is not in this room. The minister wasn't on his way this morning, he didn't show up at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to say any word, and if you care, if you hold on to the dignity of the National Assembly, it's yours to take a break until a proposing representative appears. What do we care if he travels to Ireland or Switzerland or anywhere else, when he has the National Assembly? The National Assembly must be of the utmost importance from the most important service trip, even though I do not know whether it is official or private, it does not matter. It cannot be more significant than a session of the National Assembly and the adoption of laws. Even like this one significant law, since the promoter means that you should speed up the work of free zones, I know that in this country everything is possible, that you run a hack and campaign, that you make up people's names and last names, that you call them in a variety of ways, and that you talk about your own false threat. I know it all and I see it all, but it can't happen in the National Assembly. I've seen some newspapers, they're thinking of Tom Nikolic, so he says Toma's undertaker, I guess a Partizan fan, I don't know what they're going to say. There's no title on it, so I'm calling, so I'm asking, I'm sorry, master, there's no -- Boris the thief. No, that's not true, that stands better, that's what's true and that's what people say exactly in every place. I ask how you don't have it in the paper – Boris a thief? Now I ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, did you hear that this largest funder of Serbia's Kokus and Boris Tadic's biggest financier in the previous campaign, Zoran Trifunović-Trizon, fled with 27 million he stole from the NIS, which is why you had to replace all the people in the NIS. Why doesn't anyone write about it, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because 27m euros was stolen directly by a man. And now I'm going to explain to you the way he stole and how he escaped from the courtroom. This Trizon, Mr. Mamula, you should deal with this Security Committee, see how it works, and you heard, I suppose, you heard, I see...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28738	Mr. Wolfie, I'm only asking you to bring the end and you've exceeded three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28739	I did, Mr. Mihailovic, I overstepped, but because of the great social danger committed by Boris Tadic's biggest fund-raiser, the nation doesn't know how he did it. I want to tell the people, and I'm sure you won't stop me from doing it. I'd rather say it at once than call again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28740	Mr. Wolfie, I won't stop you, but be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28741	I will be, thank you. You are always very kind and understandably looking to the needs of Serbian citizens. So, this one, as you know, and as you heard Mr. Mamula, appeared at the trial, and the trial is going on, and he's just finishing his last transaction, looking for oil, and he's got oil, and he's not going to sell it, he's going to pay back 27 million. He took, sold everything, took the money, didn't settle everything he got as a loan, nothing came back to NIS, the trial went on, it started, ended the last transaction, so he said I got sick, went to the toilet, came out a man and never came back to the country again. He's out of the country, out of Serbia. He's gone. Serbia's largest Cokus fundier in the United States, the biggest bankroller of the biggest thief, Boris Tadic. And now you tell me, Mr. Mamula, that that's not true, tell me you Jaksic that it's not true, whether there are any of you to tell me that it's not true. Why don't you all shut up, what's forbidden to talk about the Trizon?- I'm sorry. I ask you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly and you, Mr. Mamula, because I know you know this as well as I do, why is it forbidden, why can't we talk in this country about the Trizon? He paid more than half of Boris Tadic's campaign, the last one. Unbound for that, and Tadic complained in China to people, he says, so is it possible that the Trizon has to pay everything for our Serbian Kokus? Twenty-sevenm euros kidnapped and stole from Serbian citizens, 27m euros stolen and gone in the country, kissed by a mother, all so fair. Albian, ask me if everything's okay, because nothing's wrong. Trizon fled the country, the one financed by Boris Tadic, 27m euros he stole, nothing's wrong! Look now, you've seen Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm done, I won't respect your authority and your personal integrity, so he says, let's see something around Zemun, and what's his name, Gordana? Nebojsa Simonovic, I apologize, it is a common and honorable Serbian last name, and this one has tarnished this one, because at the time of the worst heifers and haranga, that Serbian citizens know from October 5th we've been talking about SRS crime, says, shared slippers with workers, bonuses, I don't know what they're talking about, working suits, employed people, etc. It's a terrible crime when you hire people and give the workers slippers a miracle of crime. What happened to dear friends in the meantime and respected citizens of Serbia and is out of the country, but not one suitcase, and he is the chairman of the Trizon Party's municipal committee, Mr Mamula, DS-Boris Tadic, this Boris -- a thief, which is not allowed by any journalist to announce, he was his chairman of the municipal board. And why is he out of the country, Mr. Mamula? The man managed to sell one apartment five times, he managed to sell one apartment, and as he did, I don't know. In the end, there were five owners, they wanted to shoot each other, they think they're guilty, and this guy picked up the money and ran away. That's not all, because what I've told you is just a little bit, he's taken 500 or 600,000, and it's for them, for the cards, for the terraces to tap, to exchange with the kids, but more seriously, there are, one, nine criminal charges in the Zemun municipality, if I'm not mistaken...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28742	Mr. Wolfie, I'm really asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28743	Mr. Vice President, thank you, and I ask that Mr. Mamula and you inform me where Mr. Trizon is now, Serbia's largest thief, Boris Tadic, where he is located, what he is doing, whether Interpol is after him and how much money Mr. Trizon has robbed Serbian citizens. This is crucial to me, to see how much Mr. Trizon has fed up with the citizens of Serbia, because if you agree with it, I disagree with that, and I can buy by the paper as many texts as they want, they can buy by television as much as they want, they can do and make up whatever they want, but they can't hide the truth. You know, whatever the deal is, with anyone about any coalition after the election, when someone steals 27m euros and someone who stares at one eye, they can't help but look at the other, and that's why all the Trizon and all the other thieves from the closest environment of Boris Tadic will have to end up behind bars.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28744	Mr. Wolfie, I owe you one explanation. We really differ in the interpretation of Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, because if participation means our obligation, means that we cannot work, if the minister does not attend, it would mean that the Government has the possibility to block Parliament's work. I think it wasn't the writer of this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the Parliament has its own independence and that it can work by assessment, in the way it suits this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28745	I would agree with your interpretation, Mr. Chairman, especially when it comes to a request for a government shift, which could never have come to the agenda, because you've taken it off the agenda, but when it's a parliamentary initiative and initiative of the National Assembly, but Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, you, indeed, and Serbian radicals and many other prices and respect for your objectivity, impartiality and correct work, but I have to point out one thing to you. This is at the request of Minister Dinkic, at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is their request and will probably have a representative to explain to us what it is. They demand that this be discussed, and we ask that the law on changes and additions to the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Legalisation, or on Planning and Construction be discussed. We've been looking for all this, but it's not on the agenda at all. This is what the government asked for, but the government's representative is gone. The matter of good customs in this assembly has always been that the minister appears, that the minister responds when it comes to the law, that he comes out to explain to the MPs what the government's intention is, what will be achieved, to say what costs are in the budget, what problems we will have, and what results we will achieve, etc. Who are we hearing from now? From representatives of parliamentary groups of government officials who support the government in the Serbian Parliament. They are not proposing representatives. They're not and they can't speak for them. That's what this is about. You even say that – they participate in the Rules of Procedure that you created, participate in your call. Did he get a call? He got a call. It means they're in. But here, they don't participate. There's nothing else to interpret. I know you're uncomfortable, and I know it's embarrassing for everyone, because there's someone above everyone and no one can say anything to. But I'm asking you to really consult and see, if it's any different for you to say, say, we have to go on, this one doesn't ferma us two percent, I can understand it. And that the citizens of Serbia know, they don't care about Dinkic for the National Assembly, they don't care about the citizens of Serbia and there's no problem. But to make that clear to the citizens of Serbia. Or, I don't want to look at radicals, because I want to ban them, because we're like this or something, we don't have any problem with that. That's why many of them will respond to justice, but until they respond to justice, until the authorities change, we have to respect the fact that some of them are ministers. When power changes, when fair, responsible, serious power is established, then things will be set up differently. Please tell us precisely and clearly that we are not different in interpretations, because everything to accept, your interpretation, this interpretation that the motionary of the Government, or the Resolute Ministry, cannot be viewed differently by any language or logical, or by any interpretation, but rather by this obligation, or if you want to, with the support of what is called good customs, that the presence of the minister is necessary. Can we discuss this without it? It's not the first time. But well, then, to be clear to the citizens of Serbia why this is happening and that it is because of the pride of the minister and the representative of the government and for nothing else. That's all I had to tell you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28746	Mr. Vukic, thank you, and I will agree with you that this is in the domain of good customs and that this is a proposal from the Government, this bill and their representative minister, I will repeat, can represent this law in a bad or good way, but it corresponds to the Government, it does not correspond to the Assembly. Since it is in the domain of good customs, it is either at the President of the Assembly, the chairman, to assess whether we will continue the session. As he's going to represent the bill, I think he's responding to the government. Now my fellow MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, will be given the floor according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28747	Here, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I just wanted to give you a little bit of help in interpreting this member of the Rules of Procedure, what we really wanted and why it is necessary for the minister to always be present, him or someone else who is authorized. It may also be the Deputy Prime Minister here at the session, especially when the debate is under way in particular. So my question is, can the minister get up from his post and say, "I accept this amendment." If he can, then his presence is really necessary, because we are to inform the public what we think about the government's proposal, we convince the parliamentary majority, which is not, however, there are only seven, eight MPs here, that we should vote for some amendment, but above all we want to convince the government's representative that we are right. I don't know who to convince, to tell you, with all due respect to the employees of the Ministry of Finance and Assistants, Deputys, I don't know who I wasn't informed of, there's never been before in a serious assembly in the Assembly to sit down clerks or deputy ministers. They could have helped the Minister in working on committees, but only the Prime Minister, members of the government, can appear here, because they correspond to the MPs. What's worth sitting here when we can't talk to them, they can't talk to us, they can't explain anything to us. So it's completely illusory. If the finance minister had some short work, as he often has, because he is the minister for all and all things, he takes pictures both in hospitals and in schools and in roads, the man has lost his compass and probably through Germany goes to Ireland, as it is most often, say 40 times during the year he lands there, and what God knows, the Prime Minister could inform us – instead of Prime Minister Dinkic there will be Deputy Prime Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, or he will come himself. In this way they show that the institution of the Assembly means something in this country, but since the institution of the Assembly no longer means anything to the government, then they act like one. I'm looking at the Prime Minister's first RTS program yesterday. Servisa, where the editors-in-chief of some should tell the prominent daily newspapers and Sundays not to ask the Prime Minister a question. No one else, he's a protected man. No one can ask him to replicate, to conflict with an opinion. He answers, tells his own story, no one lives understands what he wants to tell us. They say, next week we will see Boris Tadic. And who are we going to see next week? I think they should see Tomislav Nikolic. It would be a public service, if that didn't happen, then it's not a public service and so in this country, everything is upside down. When I went out for a pay phone, just to supplement Mr. Vukic's exposure – as far as the thief Simonovic, the chairman of the DS Municipal Committee, since the whole party appears to be a thief, Tadic, would not have fled abroad and would not have eaten a large number of people, as he with three million euros fled, if the authorities had responded to the criminal charges of the Zemun municipality. If they had responded, it would have been an arrest, wouldn't have fooled a large number of people, wouldn't have run away, would have been responsible for what he did, but since there's probably one big rope around that thief and around Boris Tadic himself, then some of these people who have been damaged by "the skin on the spike", and he'll be doing a threem-euro follow-up abroad and touching Boris Tadic for some next campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28748	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, but before he gets a word I can answer his colleague. I really think that they are good customs, as Mr. Vukic said, and it is right and rational that ministers appear here as government representatives, but you will allow in the whole situation where we are holding the presidency to assess what is best for Parliament and how to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some Simonovic was mentioned last time and today. Since the last name Simonovic is not so often, I declare that Simonovic and my family have absolutely nothing to do with it. Secondly, as for last night's interview with the Prime Minister, I think he was quite clear in his presentations, and what kind of questions were it not his fault, it was the press.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28750	Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28751	No, Mr. Simonovic, you're absolutely right. We know that you don't have three million euros, it has this Tadic, but I thought they were shooting at much more. Let me tell you something. I came out because of the great social danger of the act. I know Mr. Mamula knows it, he's not here right now, this man is the moment the trial was supposed to end just walking away, he said - I'm going to the bathroom, and he's not in Serbia anymore. He's gone! Now that sounds like a good crime story to you. Did anyone make it up? There are no men in Serbia, no three zones in Serbia. No one reported him missing. What can it be? Now you're talking about justice. You're talking about state authorities, about the police. What's this about? He's gone, but they're three million euros short. He stole 27m euros, not dinars. Calculate, it's some billions, I can't even calculate it, I don't know who can calculate it, it's some big billions. I guess these Tadics can figure it out and no one else can. Is that what your coalition partner Albianic can do? A mathematician. So, the overly honest one that always appears in front of Serbian citizens as a bit of a pain in the ass, but he says -- I'm going to beat them. Don't beat us. Win or lose, whatever you want to do, but give the money back to the people first. Have your Trizon pay back 27 million euros, then beat whoever you want. That's the point. Return the masters, we don't ask you any more about some villas where three million euros were stolen, we don't ask you anything, but return 27m euros, because it's 2,500 tractors. That, one Tadic who stole in that one financial tranche, is 2,500 tractors for our peasants and our hosts. The man said he was going to the bathroom and disappeared. In every village in Serbia, we could take one tractor for what a Tadic stole. Is it small for them, Miko? As far as they can, I know it's small, but I call on state authorities to stand on Tadic's tail with thieves. I gave you information that was dragged into one newspaper, a millimeter and a millimeter. The man went to the bathroom in the courtroom, and he's gone. Stole 27m euros. We've got a minister coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28752	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28753	Why would you beg me? Ask the minister to come in on time next time. Mr. Minister, have you heard of the Trizon? I need to explain to the minister. It's one of Tadic's great thieves. I don't know if he's your friend, too. That's the one that just escaped from the courtroom. He showed up in court. Now they all belong to that unique thief's block. That Trizon showed up in the courtroom, responsible for the robbery, and that's why you were changing everything in NIS, and I'm counting on you not knowing how a man was going to rob it, and I want to go away from the fact that you had the best intention possible. He stole 27m euros. Zoran Trifunovic, called the Trizon, the largest fund-raiser Boris Tadic, the campaign thief, who financed the Serbian "cocus" in the US Congress, was financed by the Eurozone, which took 27m euros from Serbian citizens and, at the time of his trial, said he was sick and went to the toilets. He left and never came back to the country. The state put out an APB and he's still missing in the country. What about Trizon's money? When's the state gonna catch him? Another question, which I think is crucial, when is it going to stop advertising the thief's bloc in Serbia, the ones that are the worst in Serbia, who deserve a millimeter and a half of the space in the paper, because no one is allowed to publish what I'm talking about, no one will write about it even though everyone knows it's true?- I'm sorry. As you have seen, Mamula knows, as you have seen, and you know it well and everyone in Serbia knows it, and no one can write about it and no one can say it. I urge you, Minister, to also plead on this matter, to tell us where the Trizon is, with whose support he has fled and left the borders of our country, who has made it possible for him to come from the court, the process is under way, kept by the guards, he manages to escape, whether through a window from the toilets or not, I don't know in which way. I knew he was a big thief, but I didn't know he was a stuntman. Maybe he came out the door, too, who knows. This is very important for us to know because because because of him, many people in the NIS, whether right or not, have been replaced because of this contract that he made, which he played for and for which he robbed Serbia. I'm interested in how Boris is a thief, why he doesn't address the nation around the Trizon, and why he doesn't tell us what's wrong with the money of Serbian citizens. That could buy 270,000 sheep. Look, people, if we could buy 270,000 sheep for that, so that and how much cattle in our country would suffer and how much we could think about developing agricultural production that one of Tadic's thieves, the Trizon, was gone. Please, Mr. Minister, answer that question and tell us if this Ireland is far away and how you managed to get back sooner or better. You come to the Assembly when you propose laws because your MPs are not your forced deputies, and it is not the citizens of Serbia who should be waiting for you, but you should wait for the citizens of Serbia and work for the citizens of Serbia, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28754	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28755	Ladies and gentlemen, when we received the Bill on Free Zones as a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was to be adopted by emergency procedure in an emergency session, then we received a very expensive brochure, Customs Administration 2004/05, Republic of Serbia, Ministry of Finance. Customs administration must have funded this, very well done, but what's inside is far from what looks like on the outside. Dragan Jerinić, director of the Customs Administration, tells us, in addition to the Act, we present the results of the work of the Customs Service in order for you to get acquainted with the same and give your remarks and suggestions. The material was designed to promote customs services, achieve results, modernise and bring closer to European standards. On the first page, among other things, Dragan Jerinić says – more importantly, I believe that the quality modernisation of customs services will show and prove to the domestic and foreign public, as well as to all interested entities, the effective functioning of a single platform of the functioning of all competent state authorities and relevant social organisations (customs administrations, tax administrations, MUP, inspection bodies, chambers of commerce), which we are institutionally involved in and we are fighting for because it is the only effective way to create a healthy social and economic environment and brought on by crime at a socially acceptable level. Is bringing crime to a socially acceptable level that 27m-euro theft, by that Trizon or 3.5m by Simonovic, the president of the Democratic Party of Zemun, something we will probably learn from the president of all thieves, Boris Tadic. Since Jerinic says that in institutional terms we stand up and fight, then we get one card, but I guess I lost it, so I took this out of this brochure, he says, "You know something we don't know? Smuggling and smuggling drugs, weapons and people endangering the lives of all of us. Stop breaking the law, and call anonymously and free number 064/732." This is how representatives of the government are institutionally fighting crime in all areas. In every place they look for citizens who, as anonymous informants, should inform them about what's going on, who's a thief, etc., and in an institutional sense, unfortunately, nothing happens. When the debate began in detail on the Free Zones Bill, then it was heard here that in some things the SRS proposal did not differ significantly from the Government's proposal, but I must say that we, as MPs know, intervened according to almost all the members of the bill, because the SRS has a clear vision of what the Free Zone Law should look like. We have expressed this vision and our programming through the amendments that we have submitted to the Government's bill of law. Our amendments are very constructive, so that accepting these amendments can significantly improve the text of the law. Of course, the point is that we really have a different approach and that's what our amendments say. When collected into one continent, in fact, they give a new bill. Where there seems to be a similarity between the Government's proposal and the SRS proposal, it is not quite so, because this bill is also one of the private laws of the government of the Republic of Serbia and those that will also benefit and abuse this law. Let's say, that's where I think of this biggest Tadic tycoon, Dragan Gilas, on "Sukia Plasma," because they will also know how to use free zones. Mr. Minister, since you did not respond to Mr. Vukic what you know about the escape of Zoran Trifunovic Trizon, who escaped 27m euros from the courthouse of one of the municipal courts in Belgrade, and this Zoran Trifunović Trizon, as you heard, is chief financier Boris Tadic, now asking you – what kind of free customs zone he used to leave the country, that no one knows where he went alive, at which point he crossed?- I'm sorry. As regards Article 3, which I have submitted to the amendment, the Government's proposal, Article 3, reads: "The right founder of the zone, the economic society for the management of the zone and the users of the zone, as set out in this law, cannot be reduced by any other law or regulation". Such a formulation is inadmissible and legally unacceptable. How can you say in law that one member of this law cannot be reduced by any other law or regulation? In a perfectly normal and legal language, therefore, this law regulates free zones and everything that is related to the free. There is no law to think about and that there is a concern that some other law will diminish the importance of the work of this law, a member of this law. So, in that sense, purely legal-technically, such a provision cannot stand, because it is rude, does not fit the law and is not in the spirit of our legal system. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have suggested that Article 3 be changed and that it reads: "The zone can be established by domestic and foreign legal and natural persons (hereinafter referred to as the founders of the zone)". The amendment was written to be more precisely determined by the founders of the zone, but it is broad enough for anyone with a legitimate interest to be able to establish the zones. There is no right neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor this assembly to discriminate against persons, neither legal nor physical. So anyone who assesses that they have an interest in establishing a free zone, to do so in accordance with a law that will be a positive regulation at the time when it is defined, has the right to do so and no one has the right, especially, to imagine, by the law of someone to deny that they can do a job. It is, above all, against the constitution, because our Constitution, as you know, guarantees all rights and freedoms of man and citizen. This can't stand like this. It would be really good to accept this amendment. In particular, this amendment doesn't affect the essence of your bill at all, but I suppose among the colleagues who are here with you, there are lawyers, so just as lawyers, let them comment, let them tell you, you'll see that I'm absolutely right when I filed this amendment. It is not nice and it is not good for the government, in its explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, it is playing, I often have to say it, because, unfortunately, it often happens, and with the intelligence of the MPs and then the citizens of Serbia, because the MPs are representatives of Serbian citizens in this parliament. Here's what the government said in one sentence why it didn't accept my amendment. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposal contained in that amendment is defined in Article 2(2) of point 2) of the bill." This is absolutely not true. I'll show you that's not true. First, Article 2 has a title above the member – the meaning of individual terms. It's something that's the government's paper, that we must have a member in the law that explains to us, as if the morons are going to apply these laws, not graduate lawyers, then explain to us what a free zone means, what a company is, what a company is, what a person is, a user of a zone, etc. Imagine, an explanation of "the consent of the government". Now we need to be explained what "the consent of the government" is. So Article 2 in the material and legal sense absolutely does not mean anything. He's formally explaining something. It would be perfectly normal for this member to not have, through the members, regulate what the government is up to, to regulate through this law, but we accept that it stands, because it does not mean anything, but only then is it incorrect what the Government said that what I proposed to the amendment was contained in Article 2(2) of the bill. Item 1 of Article 2. The bill says: "Some expressions used in this law have the following meaning: 2) the founder of the zone is the authority of local self-government, a company, or an entrepreneur, who has made a decision or concluded a contract with another founder on the establishment of the zone, and who, through a commercial zone management company, submits a request for consent to determine the area". So this is not identical to my proposal, which says, "The zone can be founded by domestic and foreign legal and physical persons." So, the government tried to convince me and the SRS parliamentary group in its half-explanation that they had already, about what we had proposed, incorporated into the law. I claim that this is not incorporated into the law, that point 2) of Article 2(2) does not mean anything at all. Even if she had material and legal weight, and I repeat, she doesn't, that's not what we wanted through this amendment. I really think it would be good if you wanted to do as well as you would this area, to accept this amendment because it does not change the essence of the Government's proposal at all, but only allows something that is the constitutional right of all Serbian citizens, so that they can establish, of course, both natural persons and legal persons and foreign and domestic, something guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia, would be logical and normal and only legally correct to be guaranteed in every law that is passed. So that this law, like all other laws, should be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, and not in the interest of individuals, in the interest of thieves and criminals, such as Zoran Trifunovic Trizon, who, with 27m euros in national couples, fled from a court in Belgrade. Or this Simonovic, who is chairman of the DS Municipal Committee in Zemun, who escaped from 3.5m euros, which one apartment has resold several times to several people and is now a major problem in Zemun; police have to intervene because people want to kill each other, they don't know who the real owner is, and everyone knows they've given money. So, that's how these Tadic criminals work, but the problem is that the Serbian government is making the laws proposed by the National Assembly, and the Assembly that accepts and adopts such laws, opens up the possibility that these thieves, Boris Tadic, can strut and do whatever they want and run through some of the other citizens of the unknown free zone and that they don't know where they escaped or where they escaped, but they know how much money they escaped.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28756	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. In the meantime, the notice that is important for both you who are in the O.R. and others who are following the session will be discussed today in the details of Article 85(1) to (4) only until the end of the debate in the details of the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Free Zones. As soon as we finish this effectively, tomorrow at 10.00 hours of debate in details of the 11th item of the agenda. I hope that we have succeeded in the state interest to agree on all this which takes long and, of course, I will ask that you meet tomorrow's national obligation important to Serbia, Mr Dinkic, we will not wait because MPs are doing their job responsibly and of course we will continue to work. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28757	Thank you. I would just like to correct my colleague Verica Radet – 3.5m euros has been discovered so far, and the question is how many more I have. So far, the MUP Zemun has determined that 3.5m euros has been robbed. And while we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, about these laws, Alibaba and 40 Democrats, there are more of them, but it fits that story, they're coming up with a new scam here in the cave across the street, which was once the Serbian presidency. Remember Bebe Popovic, the one who stole 6m euros or 5 billion dinars in the DS structure, will almost become a "capo" after the president of the Democrats, "yellow". So if you steal up to 3.5 million you can be the chairman of the municipal board, when you steal 6 million you're already running for president of the city board of the DS. And as much as he stole what is now president of the Chamber of Commerce, he used to be minister here, it's hard to determine, without nine million, I don't believe he's run for office, and since the competition was pretty good because a lot of them stole nine million euros, I think, in euros, it must be a little more. So that Hamovic, Lazarevic, etc. etc. Now this one with 27m euros, Zoran Trifunovic Trizon, has run for vice president of the DS. The NIS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been fed up for a few months to discuss this Trizon, a few months to talk about this thief, and the state is doing nothing. How many more are there? And that the state after the elections, when the democratic structure changed, so they went and you came to rule, if only you had arrested those you knew had been discovered by then, there would have been a lot less crime. And as for the time he went to the bathroom, maybe the man said nice - went to the bathroom in Latin America. Let's get back to the amendment now. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. I ask that Article 4 be changed and that it reads: "A company for the management of the zone (hereinafter referred to as society) can be established by the founders of the zone and other domestic and foreign legal and physical persons". The reason is, firstly, the order after Article 3 which states: "The right founder of the zone, the economic society for the management of the zone and the users of the zone, established by this law, cannot be reduced by other law or other regulations". Article 4 which I have proposed by amendment is now in line with this law and is passing a much more accessible law. The answer is why the amendment is not accepted: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 5 paragraph 1 of point 1) of the bill defines that the founders of the zone are the founders of the zone and the economic society for the management of the zone", and that Article 5 paragraph 1 of point 1) says this: "the founders of the economic society for the management of the zone are the founders of the zone". And why couldn't he be the founder of a zone management company and someone who isn't the founder of the zone, but who, after his work, brought it into the zone, why wouldn't he, say, be? On the other hand, what if the founder of the zone gets out of business? I believe this amendment should be accepted and I think it will only complete this law and facilitate the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just a free customs zone, and it's a valve that could literally lead to the Serbian economy. After the establishment of free customs zones, which have been braked backwards on several occasions, it is precisely complexes, and Serbia has both Danube and highways and railway and Corridor 10 and I do not know what this rail corridor is called, there are many opportunities for business to come, investors to come, to produce in Serbia and Serbia to benefit from it. That is why I believe that this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28758	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Krasic on the same amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28759	Don't advocate the minister, Mr. Markovic, I know this amendment will accept and don't yell at the minister, order him where he's going to travel. A warrant for his official trip was signed by Kostunica, not you. Let's go back to this amendment, which, on behalf of the SRS, was filed by Mr. Momir Markovic. Of course, our amendments follow our concept that a company for the management of the zone can be established by the founders of the zone and other domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. It's a standard provision. Unlike our concept in the Government's proposal, Article 4 regulates the determination of the area of the zone. They state that the area of the zone is determined by giving consent to the government. The government is being disgraced to determine which catastrian plots should be covered by the zone. Since the concepts are different, I wouldn't waste much time around it, because I get the impression that we're convinced why someone likes to eat sweet and someone likes to eat sour. Of course, I have no intention of convincing those who like sour to move on to sweet. However, I want to hypothetically put one situation right now. The government's draft law allows a situation to arise, and on a practical case, it would look like this: a Catholic-sale company, Neckermann, DOO Belgrade, founded on 13 January 2003 by powerholder Dejan Simic, gave an address to the founder, Zrenjanski Put 28. According to the government's proposal, there is now a free zone. What would it look like if "Neckermann and "Quelle" were at the same address, only the difference in establishment, the date of establishment,... Here, he recognized himself and fled, I'm out of luck, the Democrats fled to a free zone called the Serbian presidency, and the G17 is running away, what am I supposed to do, all those I call are running away from me, the truth seems to be dangerous. You see, they make a free zone there and then they start doing business. Now let me explain to you what business looks like. The first, very important situation is that the founders of the company are here with the same name as abroad, some people, some companies from Varazdin, Croatia, the street of Vilka Novaka 50/2, is likely even an apartment. I wouldn't be surprised if it was, perhaps, the apartment of Mladjan Dinkic or Labus or maybe Miloljub Albianic. For Markovic, I'm not sure, Predrag Markovic, I don't think it's his, because these brothers don't like him very much. Now, who are the responsible persons in Belgrade, Mihajl Kahve, Disseldorf, Sasa Babir and Damir Vragovic from Varazdin. Now that you know, Serbian citizens, when they are democracies with their full capacity to regulate something on the principle of liberalisation and everything free, and even from the brain of free, and full pockets of money, Neckermann – Belgrade has a total of 98 employees, of which 33 are employed indefinitely, 65 at a certain time, and, uh, "Quelle", which is at the same address, has six employees, divided, three at a certain, three at an indefinite time. What else is interesting? You see how democratic customs works. Of course, I'm calling customs from the time they wrote this letter, which is January 2003. I think he was the head of customs at the time, the one from DS, Alexander Krstic, I think he was, but if he wasn't, someone was from that blood group again. You see, they notified the PTT Public Enterprise Transport of Serbia – Postal Traffic Directorate that in carrying out the customs procedure over the shipments of Neckermann from Austria, they would not charge a fee for the procedural processing of customs customs duties on goods amounting to 140 dinars, provided that the value of each of these etc. etc. They did the same thing in 2005 for "Quelle." The problem, however, is that the post office warned customs that these had nothing to do with Austria, but that these were from Croatia, that the company they founded here from Belgrade. You see, when it is imported within a coded interest group or when an interested coded group inherits the democratic activity of the customs administration, as it was organised by the Democrats. Of course, then the dance starts, in all these songs – big money is in circulation. Here's something from the official report, Mr Markovic, the competent state authorities, the only authorities authorised for control, says that, from July 31st 2003 to March 31st 2006, at the order of PTT, Serbia's traffic to the Dinarmann dinar account from Varazdin, led by Raiffeisen Bank, in Belgrade, a transfer of funds to the amount of -- this in dinars is some figure that mathematicians could look forward to, however, what the ordinary world knows, it is 60,080,000 euros. As for "Quelle", it is "Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank", 2,274,000 euros, but it is a much smaller period, only six months. So, the same company in the same address, of course, is not paid customs, is not paid sales tax and now citizens know that the state of Serbia is through various ministries that are responsible for this problem found that these fictitious free zones, and this proposal of the law on free zones that pushes the government into this formulation as they imagine it, this law will allow these things to be realised. This is what the inspectors have found - yes, foreign legal persons "Neckermann" and "Quelle", from Varazdin, with the products delivered, do not provide a report on the examination, certification and other of accredited laboratories and control organisations accredited by the credential body of SCG as well as a declaration, labelling of the product with the prescribed sign and conformity, and the goods are placed on the domestic market contrary to the provisions of Article 33. Consumer protection laws. As for advertising and advertising, a whole new advertising law has been ruined. You've been looking forward to it for nothing, 250 new laws. No more legitimately applicable. You're passing the law for statistics, to explain that something has been done, and essentially to force self-will, of course, it is now desirable because democratic, has democratic capacity, coalition capacities are very exhausted, but robbery at every step. Of course we've offered you a completely different concept of free zones law, because we don't know what this kind of democracy can ruin in the Republic of Serbia. All those who talk about democratic European, global, planetary, interplanetary and other types of Europe's journey, or Serbia to a better future, I call on them to go there, to visit a village between Prokupje and Kurzumlia, but not along the highway, but in the mountain. To see where people live in villages, the youngest man is 72 years old, to look at his electricity bill, to spend people 50 kilowatts, to pay 150 dinars, fixed costs 160 and some dinars, so they get a tax that the state took 50 and some dinars, so that's what the TV subscription to another 300 dinars is going to be, so 700 and some dinars should be fixed, turned on – it didn't turn on the light bulb, and TV can't watch, fields unworked, fields abandoned, people lost, the state never went to them, the bus doesn't work... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Go to them and explain to them the democratic fluids, your capacities, coalitions, your path to Europe and just answer the question – why do you charge them when their monthly incomes rarely exceed 4,500 dinars, how much they get on behalf of agricultural pensions. Of course, when these people hear about such democratic transactions from a free zone, the building of the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia, where the biggest thief sits with his camel... I've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28760	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28761	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, I really don't know, just now the government representative was here, and right now, he's gone, and did he come here just to make a few statements and come back who knows where, I don't know. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law on free zones and asked for Article 5 to read: "The user of the zone is a domestic and foreign legal and physical person who performs the work in the zone". Here, to make it clearer, first of all, for citizens who follow what we are saying, it is a conflict of two concepts: the concepts of the SRS and these concepts given and exposed to this bill. We believe that many of the solutions that have been given and unconstitutional and contrary to some other laws and this concept, in particular Article 5 paragraph 1(5), where it says, "the founder of the zone was not the founder of a free zone management company which had ceased to be in force by the government's decision to establish a free zone. This condition does not apply to the authority of local self-government." If this kind of regulation is accepted, I think the very idea of passing this law will never be implemented. It is clear what were the effects of existing free zones, i.e. those effects were either minimal or completely lagging behind. Free zones are something that has been linked predominantly to undeveloped areas and cities that could not function in line with the general market principles that apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And precisely free zones were envisaged and imagined as some kind of relief so that those most underdeveloped areas in Serbia could develop as much as possible. I would set an example from southern Serbia, because a free zone exists in the municipality of Vladic's Han. We are all aware, although unfortunately there is no current choice in Vladica Han, so there is no need to shine ministers there, to pump up money, to pave the way, to build airports, bridges, and I don't know what else, but it is one of the best examples of how the free zone is not, or how the idea of establishing a free zone has not led to a more favourable development of the situation. So, unless you accept the amendments to the SRS, I am sure that this law, like many others, will be found again on the agenda of the National Assembly and that what you do not want to accept today, for these or those reasons, but not certainly because of the quality of the solution, you will be obliged and you will have to accept for just a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28762	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this may be some of the seemingly and colleagues of Jaksic or those who participated in writing this law in the order of replacements, and I see that this is also the government's argument for not accepting the amendment of counterpart Sarovic, in defining Article 5. But you're wrong about that, because this Article 5, concerning item 1 point 5, really makes it impossible for all those legal persons who want to restore the status of a free zone, who at one point have been taken away from it, to now appear by this member of the law. That's one big injustice. If you look at all the legal solutions that the founders of the free zones have had to go through since the early 1980s, changes and additions, following other laws, both customs and foreign exchange operations, you will see that it is unfair to put them in this position and now take away that possibility. The minister only spoke briefly about this law and left, and now he explained the president of the assembly why he had to do it. He may not be obliged to give us an answer to that question, but the issue is being raised for the president and the Chamber of Commerce and the president of the Free Zones Association at Serbian level, they also have something to ask the Republic Government and this minister, for these all known tycoons, and for the fugitive ministers from the former Dov government. Who took the right to have free zone status for these individual cities, which have been listed for the past five years? The former government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, right? When are free zones registered in Serbia? According to the data we possess, or anyone can find it, if it is interested, and I see that the interest of MPs of the ruling structures is almost nothing of any kind for such a law that can be of strategic importance for the development of our economy, they were registered, or existed in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Smedereva, Kovina, Šapac, Sremska Mitrovica, Prahova, Somboro, Lapov, Vladica Han, Bačka Palanca and Pirota. That only kept the status of the free zones, as the New Sad, the Zrenjanin and the Pirot are now standing, right? So, and Saturday, but then it's worse for Novi Sad if he's not. As far as these other cities are concerned, with the argument that they have failed to fulfil the function, which is true in most cases, that they are not the space that has been designated as free zones for the purposes as a rounded continent in hectares, it is usually a few dozen hectares, but there are free zones and they can be, if someone in the future competes with the more agile president of municipalities, and only a few hectares, then the question is raised which is the culprit, because the SRS was the biggest opponent of the former Dosovo government as it is now, the only opposition to this regime and Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica – but why they came out, they had a campaign on October 5th, or September 2000, with a hollow story, in order to get hold of the authorities and pillage in Serbia all these years and fled to the Latin American countries with millions of euros. What I have ahead of me is a business plan, i.e. the possibility of operating in the Lapovo free zone, (please Mr. Koprivica to add to me, there's a map on the bench, there's one, thank you) so that everything, as you like to say, would be transparent, although I can't stand that word, but for the citizens to see, this is just something that exists on the paper, it's the route of the Belgrade-Nish highway, near Lapov, 49 acres (this is here) the free zone of Lapovo municipality, which only exists on paper, in the general urban plan of the city, in which until two years ago it has been haral of DS. The DS has its leading thief everywhere. At the level of the Republic of Serbia, it is Boris the thief, Boris Tadic. In Lapovo, it was a certain Borislav, which was beaten by Borica Jelenkovic. This Borisa Jelenkovic in a small municipality by the number of inhabitants, but with an exceptional geographical and economic, economic, strategic position, such as Lapovo, that was done by the people of the urban, because he is not capable, he has only placed himself in the middle of the field a billboard that he rents. Njiva is his, and as far as I know or know, the lease takes a man a thousand, two thousand euros a month, what does he care if Lapovo gets the status of a free zone, that there's something to do and someone to hire. No, like all DS thieves and those in Kragujevac, both in Belgrade and in Lapovo, were running around. This gentleman, Željko Ilic, who is the director of the Free Zone Lapovo company, who needs to restore that status, i.e. according to Article 5, is potentially competing, because it is indeed a great sin and damage that on the highway, in the international strategic direction, Lapovo does not have the ability to produce goods, to process them, to do the jobs of storage recompromised, to perform banking and other financial affairs, insurance, reassurance, everything that can be done in the free zone, only because the government is thieving and what every seemingly petty thief, but in fact these are thieves in the right sense of words, uses the power to enrich himself and members of his political organization. Of course, these two OMV pumps are not on the territory of the Lapovo free zone, but when the Municipality gave consent to their construction on one side of the highway and on the other side, it was then said that on these 49 acres of land in Lapovo between the highway and the railway line, which you saw in this detailed urban, i.e. the Lapovo municipality's regulatory plan, that it really started with the employment of people. Then individuals appeared, various economic operators from the country, from abroad, interested in using space in the free zone. One such company is AD "Vocar" from Belgrade, which sent the letter to the Lapovo Free Zone Company, i.e. SO, because now the company's free zone Lapovo is uncertain until the adoption of this law, until the government's consent under this procedure. They say the Vocar Belgrade Stock Society in the municipality owns about two and a half thousand square metres of covered business space on land near two hectares, which is covered by a built-up plan of detailed regulation of the Lapovo free zone, which I have just shown you. They say they are interested in returning the status of a free zone within a future technology park. That's what I was telling you about in Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's first amendment. Such technology parks in Hungary are now about 155, perhaps 160, and this is a developmental opportunity for the future of every region in Serbia, or for every municipality. Why hasn't she been running a free zone so far? This man, a young enthusiast, tried to do something and go out in the world with a fantastic brochure. He was prevented from the tycoon from DS, from thieves and from gangs who wouldn't let anything live work without them having a commission on it. And today, he's under cover of secrets about how he got a job to build an OMV pump. Not that it's an oasis of Dossian fraud, but it's really a robbery by a few people who allegedly covered it all through the documentation they made, but a huge amount of money ended up in their pockets. The fact that Lapovo is in the central part of Serbia and indeed halfway between Istanbul and Munich, that Serbia's railway is in such a situation, and to explain to you a little better, that you have an idea of this, from this international railway station to the highway, to that route, there goes these 49 hectares, no one cares. Has the municipality done anything in terms of offer of convenience and convenience in infrastructure and in attracting foreign investors? It's not. We as a party have never been against those who want to invest in our country. Profit and by the founding of 49%, says Mr. Sarovic's amendment, domestic and foreign persons who get a license for it, but it is not a problem like some economists, by analysing the business of free zones, or their dysfunction and participation of only 1% in the external trade exchange, by saying that it is a limiting factor, which we have proposed by amendment and by this law that 49% be foreign capital, I think the problem is that this country has no applicable, and indeed well done, a law on direct foreign investment. Many countries in Asia, many countries in Europe, former Socialist countries that have processed or just passed the Free Zone Act, and have done everything they can to attract through a variety of foreign capital investment funds, were able to see it work for a short time. In Serbia for so many years and decades, with the fact that through the liberalisation of both foreign and foreign trade, there have been some difficult circumstances for these potential foreign investors, because you know that within the free zone they, with the existence of a mandatory customs checkpoint, also had the possibility of having their foreign currency account, etc. I'll talk about that later. These are the key things. So, this here, any normal government that wants to apply well to its citizens would do something. Who took Lap's license for free zone status? Ex-Government DS. Who ruled and harassed that community? DS! The problem lies with the issues of Novi Sad and the former mayor. I'm going to show you later this movement of the operation of the free zone of Novi Sad, the former, because it's reregistered, I mean in June of this year or last, I'm going to look at it, and you, sir, you know, and now it has customs status. In any case, the interest of the mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs Gojkovic, and of all citizens of Novi Sad and the entire Vojvodina is to restore that status, so that it can employ and organise production there. At these 49 acres by the arrival of foreign investors, by opening the plant and with very high-quality projects many are willing to offer, such as the investor from Florida, who sent the letter, could be done for the municipality and for all cities that want that status. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28764	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Yaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28765	It's very short, just a few facts, mostly for the public, and it's about everything we're talking about. So, it was said just now, one of the colleagues mentioned that this law could be a strategic matter. I would step up that level a little bit, and I would say that this law should and must be a strategic matter, that it must be so designed that it really makes it possible in one real way, in the right place and in the satisfaction and in the whole of our economy that it should see its place, at least in that period until we are members of the EU, and even then we have the opportunity to use those areas properly. But about that after. If we agree and I think we agree, this law can and should be a driver and a specific development, which we have conditions for. And that's where we all show up with one attitude as far as I can see. When it comes to taking away consent on the functioning of free zones, which happened at the beginning of this year, a larger number of zones, as mentioned here, lost their consent and their work stopped. There's more to it than that. I'd like to bring one thing out here, I think we should know, first of all, the MPs. Knowing that fact about the control of free zones, which goes once a year, when that fact was first presented to me as a national MP, because I was interested in all of it, as MP G17 plus I officially asked the Ministry of Finance to re-examine the conditions, that is, those negative conditions that determined the Ministry of Finance's decision to stop working on these zones. I have to say that he was a really correct finance minister and the Ministry of Finance was very observable and for a few more months there was a delay in the closure, i.e. the termination of the work of the free zones and the review and control of the work was performed again. Unfortunately, in addition to the goodwill of the finance minister, it could not be avoided that what is in the old law would be applied as a condition this time in terms of stopping the work of these zones. What we should know is that free zones are everywhere in the world, including us, in any version of the law, places on the territory of a country, places within the economy and finance of a country, where there are special and special benefits and benefits for work, very special, very favourable and therefore free zones appear as places where investors are interested in investing their money and start producing. We all know that wherever the state offers special benefits and benefits it is necessary, if we are to be responsible and serious, that the state has one special and very strict labour control. Otherwise, we will have a situation to abuse the benefits of the state, not for the benefit of citizens and peoples, but for some personal benefit. We all know that, and we agree with that. Therefore, the rigorousity of zone work control must be equal to the degree of convenience and benefits that investors must have, in order to make it worth their while to invest and invest in those areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28766	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28767	If the amendment of the SRS, which promotes another concept of seeing this issue and gives a completely new bill, it should in some way challenge it indirectly to the plight of the existing situation by those in power, then I accept it as a style, but it is not so productive. Before I leave specifically with this amendment, I must warn you that the existing Free Zones Act is not such a bad regulation. Probably where five members should be changed, maybe this is a high percentage required to produce export goods in the zone. But I have to remind you that many of the provisions of this law couldn't apply during sanctions, so there was some tolerance, because this concept of free zones has started to develop with us in one period that can be said, from an economic point of view, that in the weather, at a time of sanctions, blockades and all the problems this country has had over the past 16 years. That is why my discussion of the existing Free Zones Act comes down to the need to change five or six members. However, the difference in concept really makes no difference in the comparative analysis of what we have stated in the amendment for Article 6 and what is set out in Article 6. Because if you were to analyze that article right now, The Government's bill, then I'd have to go back to Article 4 and Article 2. Article 2 states that the government's consent is an act by which the government determines the area of the zone. The government has been devalued to determine catastrian municipalities, parcels within the Catastrian municipalities, and then if you look at Article 5, what conditions are set there, completely pointless and unnecessary conditions, because when that group starts to settle, then you know there's no sign of it. This requirement requiring consent to determine the area should contain, so listen to what liberalisation looks like: the name, seat and the FIB founder of the zone, the name, seat and the FIB of the company for the management of the zone, the data on the established capital of the company for the management of the zone, the name and area of the zone for the definition of borders, the restructure data. If in the area of the zone there is an economic operator in the restructuring process, and here the procedure to determine the area and everything refers to the economic operator. Totally pointless law, and of course, I don't think I'm wasting valuable time trying to analyze something that's just pro-forme inserted in here, to run this debate. I'd go back to our concept. The SRS believes that Article 6 should be prescribed that action is not allowed in the zone that threatens the environment, human health, material goods and security of the country. Given the beginning of today's debate, I don't think our amendment to Article 2 has been explained enough, so I would like to use it to read it, because this member in our version is quite detailed and best shows a conceptal disagreement with the government and another vision of the zone. "The zone covers a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which as such is fenced, marked and in which the actions established by this law are carried out. The area of the zone is specifically fenced, visibly marked, marked as a free zone on the entrances and exits from the zone, as well as on the river side. The zone can have multiple parts that make up one functional continent. The zone must be so arranged that the traffic of goods and persons in the zone and from the zone can only take place through certain exits or entrances. The fence, the entrance and exits must be properly arranged, secured and lit at night. A commercial zone management company is required to provide in the zone rooms for the operation of the customs service. The government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes standards and normatives relating to fences, markings, markings, entrances, exits, offices and offices in which customs services will operate in the zone." A much more serious concept, where you go with clear indicators that the zone should be a serious institution. Since we are entering something that could be interpreted as an economic justification for the establishment of the zone, and from the position of the past of what was inherited, I must remind you again that a large number of zones in our country were actually an expression of the political aspirations of local powers. I'll give you an example in Nis. For years, Nis talked about a free zone as in Lapovo, determined hundreds of hectares where large constructions, an investment cycle, from 1993 to 1997 would take place, and whoever tried to trick the citizens in Nis just said a free zone, and even there was a free zone in the construction and none of it. Why? Because economic analysis and advocating the justification of establishing a certain free zone territory were politically intimated without quality preparation, without true and real data. When it's all wrong, then the future estimates are wrong, so some of them are real zones, so they count on bringing this one, bringing him in, he's going to invest this much, this one's going to invest this much. When it was left behind, then the zone remained in the form of a zone management company, user one or none. Whoever appears as a user, of course, if a small number of users are in the zone, then the costs of maintaining one zone, they are fixed costs, the costs of the zone management company, the costs of the customs service are far higher and there is no economic interest in working. That's the central question. Our concept is far more acceptable, because it respects these economic interests, does not allow the state to interfere so much in establishing a zone, etc., and business zone. We are very specific about the transfer of funds, about the investment of profits, about the banking, financial and other transactions carried out in the zone, about one normal mode of transport of goods from the zone and in the zone, and about the obligations that exist if the goods from the zone go to the domestic market, where Neckermann and Quelle would not happen. However, if this customs duty remains with this finance minister, then any free zone can be Neckermann and Quelle. That's a fact. Then there is no big legal and theoretical debate, because all legal and theoretical discussions fall into the water when they come to the field of reality and apply regulations. We have this problem that regulations are selectively applied, and everyone here gets a little smudged, and we see that some have a very good tendency to dissipate, to steal, and to "burn" abroad, as the democratic bloc, with full democratic capacity, manifests it. Of course, Serbian citizens must know that what the democratic bloc is doing has nothing to do with democracy, that this is how the democratic bloc works, I do not believe it exists in some EU country. Then you can easily conclude that with such a democratic capacity and a democratic thieving no one alive can lead to some integration, whether they are in the North, the South, the West, the East, it doesn't matter. No one's doing business with these guys. There's a company from Israel going to do something in Belgrade, and they hit Bogdanovic, and he's asking for 5%. That's a lot even for Israel. Then they make an assessment of who is in power, which all jobs have been done and come to the conclusion that over 300m euros are being taken. That's their assessment, not my assessment. I have all the papers, you know. My "laufer" is working, notifying me. I don't read the papers, and I know everything that's going on, when someone's laughing, why they're laughing, how much they're sour while they're laughing, I see it all well, and I know which way and where this is going to end. What this government suggests, when it comes to the Free Zones Act, is something bad. The application of all the provisions of this law will depend on the finance minister. Just to remind you of his tendency, that everything he suggested here binds to his smallness. Then I'm not surprised that a small number of honest people left the party because they don't want to have anything to do with Mr Dinkic and these things. You can imagine when even "priest" Labus left G17 plus! I don't know what's wrong with the leg, with Ericson, if it's sugar, but he had to leave G17 plus, because they saw what a tied-up system is. Of course, when I say G17 plus, I don't think of any MPs in the National Assembly. Why? They have no influence on what is happening at the top of the party, and I would not even say the party, but individuals who abuse the party. Maybe that's more specific. I know that our fellow MPs from G17 plus on MP groups are also expressing wonder and dissatisfaction, and they are not clear on what is going on and what is economic policy, so they ask a public question, and then they get pucks – that you are not ashamed to ask a question, you cannot explain the economic policy of G17 plus. But it's their internal, let them clear up on their organs. I'm just saying that some of them got away in time because they saw there that the driver who was driving didn't pass the driver's test and could crash off the road and go to waste. As noted, the democratic bloc's capacities are very hollow, pierced. A little, a little bit, so you leaked 27 million, 3.5 million, Hamovic, Lazarevic, Gilas, etc. That's what I tell the citizens of Serbia, that they know when the democratic capacity with the holes appears, your money goes away. Here, at the "Neckermann" you saw – 60-70m euros earned by the people who cheated on consumers here. The post office, held by G17 plus, found an interest in billing the postage, and then to non-resident accounts, then to transfer to the euro, and bye-bye to the brotherly former republics. And you're asking for our support? Well, you don't have support on our side. So, the citizens of Serbia, the SRS don't support them, because they do. Who's to say that? They, in their report, are their state body. When can he do this? He can't be in the government, he can't even be employed in this government. That's what they wrote about themselves. Here, I support them, there's something I support them with. They calculated nicely, but apparently the interests were disrupted, and Labus had clearly hurt his leg due to reportedly Mladic and stopping negotiations with the EU, and in fact, when he saw the report on how many "youngers" he had to escape. For Markovic, I'm not sure that was the main reason. First of all, I call on the G17 Plus MPs, who are throwing something around this regulation, they think they know something, I agree, you have such an impression, I suggest they pick up all the amendments to the SRS on this bill and put it as one common text. They will see a brand-new law that is several times more quality, better and clearer than the bill proposed by the government. Let me remind you, we did something similar two and a half years ago. It was the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, so we submitted amendments to each member and MEPs G17 plus, I don't want to speak my name, they had the opportunity to agree on all amendments and to compare with the Government proposal and they said – what the radicals suggested is far better, far better. It's the same situation when it comes to free zones. I believe that what is stated in your bill, Article 6, especially in Article 5, it cannot stand in the law at all. I will not now open the subject of the unconstitutional nature of certain points of Article 5. They are in direct contrast to the provisions of the RS Constitution. If you went back to challenging constitutionality, then you would in some way give your proposal legitimacy, which I do not want to do for a living head, but rather make a clear distinction, that everything, even those who follow this transmission, put before the final act – Ja or Bu, or what Mladjan Dinkic, is, as he suggests, how he works. You see, as soon as we started talking about Neckermann, he came right up, he was two seconds away, he left. Apparently, Markovic ordered him to go to Ireland, state business. The greatest state interest, Mr. Markovic, is that these members of the RS Government do not go abroad to represent us. There's no greater state interest. You can imagine what an insult it is to the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia when Dinkic represents them abroad! There is no greater insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28768	Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28769	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the beginning of today's session, we spent a certain part of our time at the debate, whether it is necessary for the minister to be present when it comes to this law or not. I would only promise, i.e. to inform the public and the MPs that, when they are ministers, Serbian radicals will come with pleasure to this Parliament, present laws and explain to the citizens, as well as MPs who want to take active participation to make these laws applicable and to benefit the citizens of Serbia. I must also tell my colleagues from the SRS not to worry much about the fact that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is not present here, because when Miloljub Albianic, who, by the way, Serbian citizens from miles call Micko Switzerland, is then exactly the same way they end it with their party. Why do they call him Swiss? So because when he shows up, does he follow this pay phone, does one of the TVs, when he speaks citizens get the impression that he's a parliamentarian in Switzerland. In fact, Serbia is a nicer country than Switzerland and people are good at it, except those "yellows" picked up everything they had to pick up, so they're much harder to live than in Switzerland. By the way, it's a pleasure for us to lead this country to live in it. Let me say a little bit about my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 7 of this law, and we believe that the bill of this law in relation to the law governing free zones is a very important and important regulation that should exist. It is also interesting what MP Jaksic said. He says, "Sometimes some used benefits, he abuses those who need to control the business of free zones called benefits, which is absolutely unacceptable to us Serbian radicals." Article 7 says: "The Ministry of Finance Affairs assesses the economic justification of the submission of the request set out in Article 4(2) of this Act and delivers its opinion to the Government." We have predicted with our concept that Article 4. reads quite differently. And here, the ministry would get involved in opening free zones like when economic operators want to start doing some work, so now some ministry, in this case the Ministry of Finance, should give its assessment of whether there is a justification or not, to carry out that activity. The second position of Article 7 reads: "Determining the area of the zone is economically justified if, on the basis of the attached elaborate and other supporting evidence, it can be estimated that positive effects will be achieved with regard to attracting foreign capital". It is difficult to assess whether they will be achieved, and in fact they should not but should be allowed, to prescribe this law in which free zones are opened and to allow them to operate, so they will show themselves during business whether they have excuses or not. The fact that over the last 30 years in the free zone world has increased about 100 times suggests that, for us Serbian radicals too, a signal is sufficient, that this problem or the reenactment of economic activity in Serbia should be given serious and due attention and therefore we have submitted 44 amendments to the bill, to regulate this matter into a law that would really mean a lot to Serbian citizens. In current free zones, trade is mainly the subject of their business, and we now want high-tech, newer business entities, or new achievements to live across free zones to hire as many Serbian citizens as possible, who are calling for a job. Lately, there has been no chance, nor is this government, I think, ready to put that part of the story on its agenda, and how could it be if certain ministers in this government are mostly talking to the presidents of other parties and how to fight the great popularity of the SRS, or its founding with Serbian citizens. Last time I pointed out, Serbian citizens expected the finance minister to discuss these business activities with the DS, i.e. discussing the ransom price of cherries, raspberries, harvests, and they agreed on how and how to prevent citizens of Serbia and the SRS from winning the next election. It will be a little harder for those who have ambitions to do so, instead of doing the part of the work for which Serbian citizens directly elected them through the MPs in the government. The amendment to Article 1 submitted by Parliamentarian Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic has in one way been said how and how the SRS sees the concept of this law, and this amendment to Article 7 of this law is only a logical trail, as will other amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. I think that these amendments should be seriously considered, accepted to make this law applicable and have an impact on business in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28770	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28771	Honorable MPs and citizens if you are watching this transfer, whether it was an accident or it had to be so today that when discussing the Free Zone Bill, the nickname of the Trizon is mentioned. Very interestingly, this 27m-euro Trizon is somehow proof of a state of one state in Serbia, that it is no longer an affair or wonder for the first page of the newspaper, or for breaking news and these televisions covering the entire territory of the Serbian state without speaking local television. But it's a cruel reality that citizens feel on their skin; too hard life, most are unable to live normally and survive, to meet the most necessary needs when it comes to paying for electricity, communals, and not to say to feed or be decent and decently dressed as an individual and as a family. That's why we have on the other side of the Trizon, businessmen, new peoples, Tadics, Gilas, as well as Babice and Ilics, etc. They all shared Serbia in their own way, they shared through the government, they took their feuds. That's how things happen in most local self-government. There is no control, there is no law in the state of Serbia, there is no state, there is no rule of law. We're discussing the Free Zones Bill today. There were a lot of speeches here why the minister was gone, he came in for a moment, left that blue folder, so she disappeared and the folder and he. He's probably looking for this Trizon who disappeared from the bathroom. There have been big stories before about these free zones and there's always been an economic miracle and some benefit for both the people and the state. Unfortunately, these free zones have not been revived, and the responsibility of why they haven't come to life is that our country is not working, that these zones have not been made in accordance with the applicable legal regulations. Well, we heard here today that, apparently, Minister Dinkic's goodwill delayed the closure of some zones, so when they couldn't continue to work, he decided to stop the zones. It is not true that many zones have not even lived up to the positive legal regulations. On the contrary, even though they were doing something, they did so in violation of the Law on Free Zones and all other positive legal regulations. But it is again the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the current Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance and the proposal of this law took the right to exercise control of work, from giving consent to the opening of a free zone, to determine all these conditions, allegedly to involve local self-government, to decide and monitor the work of free zones, and in the last members of this bill, the establishment of a free zone administration was proposed. The Agency, Management, NGOs and other bodies have been little formed by this government, Vojislav Kostunica, and we see the chaos in the country. Unfortunately, neither the NGOs nor the agencies, including the administrations, resolved anything concrete, nor improved the situation in Serbia. I have tabled an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 8 as a trace of the chronology of amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to all 39 members of the draft of this law and these amendments and additions to Article 8 should read: "The establishment of the zone requires the procedure for the adoption of a zone act, the establishment of a society and the acquisition of the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Government) that a specific part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia may be established." The Government’s explanation, as well as for all other amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, since none of the 39 amendments has accepted: “Amendment is not accepted since the concept of setting up an area is defined by Article 2 paragraph 1 point 6 of the Law proposal and it implies that the establishment of a zone is the establishment of a decision by the competent authority of local self-government, a company, or an entrepreneur, or the conclusion of a contract establishing a zone between the authorities of local self-government, a company, or an entrepreneur.” When I looked at Article 2 there, it clearly stands in the draft law under point 6) – "the establishment of a zone is the decision of the competent authority of local self-government, company, or entrepreneur, or the conclusion of a contract establishing a zone between the authorities of local self-government, business society, or entrepreneurs"; and Article 2 in fact explains certain terms used in this law which are the following meaning, and now that I have looked at the other members and Article 8 there is no member who regulates the establishment of the zone. Then why does Article 2 have this concept and an explanation of this concept – the establishment of a zone? It is clear that the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group are drawn up by amendment in one of the complete texts of this law, that only then can this law have its own application and its function, that free zones and set up and operate in accordance with the law and all other positive regulations. Since there is no finance minister here, and I wanted to ask him two questions as a folk MP, the Ministry of Finance to answer me – how many free zones are now and what are these areas, which are the owners of these free zones and who are controlling their work? Another issue I want to ask the finance minister, or the ministry, is at the request of many citizens who, looking at many televisions, both local and local, which cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, what has been happening throughout Serbia, have been organised for months. prize games where viewers need to guess a few letters by calling a number that's written on the screen. And given that this is essentially, how citizens have cited "huge fraud" in recent months of Serbian citizens with this so-called. the prize games, calling for an appropriate number, that number or call costs 25, 30 or 40 dinars, so I ask the following question – since the Ministry of Finance controls, in addition to everything in Serbia, and gambling and lottery games and all other gambling games, and this is meant as some gambling game, did the Ministry give licenses for these games of chance on almost all TVs in Serbia, who owns these famous phone numbers that appear on television screens, does the Ministry of Finance control that gambling, how much money is generated by the viewers and how much taxes are paid for the state? This is at the request of many citizens, because the extremely difficult situation that is in Serbia is being misused, especially by children who are left without parents and who turn their phone numbers around, and when parents receive phone bills after a month, they see that the telephone bill is 10, 20 or 30,000 dinars. Of course, all these games are such, "huge fraud" of Serbian citizens. I don't condemn citizens, but the Serbian Ministry should answer what's going on. I am convinced in a month or two that the government and the finance ministry headed by Dinkic will not rule Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28772	Thank you. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. This is what you wanted to be recorded as parliamentary questions, isn't it? First, it will be addressed to the finance ministry because it refers to it. The second will not be addressed to the Ministry of Finance because anyone who knows what it is, the Ministry of Finance is not concerned. It's not about gambling, and it says in all these games that go on, you're absolutely right, quizzes that go on citizens' leniency, because they know that citizens, you often see it, and people in public activity are saying one thing and moms, and down the corner they write data and when they're exactly read, and of course people don't read it, it consists of "false," because they don't literally read what it means, otherwise the tax is introduced, so it says what tax they pay, but it's not gambling. There are many countries. It is very important that according to the Law on Advertising, so I say, it is about the Ministry of Trade, it should be controlled and it should be controlled whether an adequate warning is highlighted, whether the warning is respected, and, among other things, it applies to what you have pointed out, to the ban that children under 18 are even included in the programme, what happens regularly, and then we get it in the accounts. It's something that happened in a similar way in the '90s, just in another form, about other phone calls and bills. It is common that individuals on the market try to rent a phone, and by hiding full information that would warn citizens, to carry out this warning, but it is very important that what you said, only because I say, will be sent to the Ministry of Trade, whether within the jurisdiction established by the law that all of you MPs here adopt, whether those provisions are respected and controlled. Otherwise, it would seem like games of chance, not as games of chance, but as a naked scam, unless it's control. So it'll be addressed to that address, and you'll be able to control the good question again tomorrow. Thank you. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28773	Article 9 in the draft law submitted by the Government reads – The extension of the zone is subject to the provisions of this law on granting consent to determine the area of the zone. It's in their concept. In our concept, Article 9 reads: "The zone can be established in an area that has an air or river port open to international traffic, on the master's roads included in the network of European roads (E) and in the second place, if agreed by the competent authority of local self-government. The second position – "One zone may be opened in the area of place referred to in Article 1. Two and more zones can be opened in the area of one place if the competent authority of local self-government is in agreement. Of course, this solution, which we offer, is significantly deviating from the existing law on free zones, but I must say, it does not question the way the government tried to define the area of the zone in its bill. They wrote it this way, in Article 2 where these terms are given, so it says - the free zone is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is specifically fenced and marked, on which actions are carried out under the conditions laid down by this law, and there is practically no limit there. So on every square centimetre, it's possible to set up a zone. We believe that such a wide-ranging question is where a zone cannot be located within the law, but I have to make a connection to the point 2) of Article 2 because there is a definition of what the founders of the zone are, who are the founders of the zone. So, the founder of the zone is the body of local self-government, a business company, that is, the entrepreneur who made the decision or concluded a contract with another founder after the establishment of the zone, but this part is completely unnecessary, given that here is the urgency that the local self-government authority appears as the founder of the free zone. I have to point out that this is a bad solution, because if local self-government becomes the founder of a business society, and the main word is run by the company for the management of the zone, then it is contrary to all possible capacities for the development of local self-government in Serbia, where it comes out of the economic activities of local self-government. In some ways, they remain at communal activity, and the free zone is not something that has touch points with communal activity. However, we have otherwise imagined the role of local self-government, we believe that it should be asked, in particular, now I am going to our version of Article 9, in the area of second place, and these are those places where there are no natural and infrastructure conditions, at this point, but local self-government has its own interest in developing an area for a future zone and it in some way giving that agreement to start with a project of establishing a zone to secure infrastructure and everything else that exists along the highways, air and other ports. Of course, we've given meaning to local self-government. If two or more zones are formed in the territory of a municipality, local self-government needs agreement. And not only because of the conditions concerning infrastructure, but because of the development of one area, because local self-government has the central authority to take care of the development of its territory and it would have to be asked. So, it's in line with, if I may say so, the efforts to ask for some jobs a lot more local self-government than the central government. There's a completely different concept here, because this concept doesn't question what the government has proposed, but it does. I would now give you only one addition, if you remember what Mr. Cetrovic said before me, he explained the amendment to a member concerning the establishment of the zone, because really this proposal of the Government does not have such a provision, he has a provision, I think it's a Article 2 where it's just a definition, so only a particular conclusion can be drawn about what is meant by the establishment, and the establishment of the zone cannot be compared to the provisions on the establishment of companies. There is also a question of the agreement given by the government, and it is only about determining the area, which is catastrian municipalities in some territory. Bad is your proposal, extremely bad, inapplicable, and therefore it must, so to speak, draw a selective application that depends on a person, but a person who will find himself in a place where he will assess whether this area can, whether that other area can't, ask for brighter documentation, and even if he discreetly assesses in this proposal that the Government represents. So there is no obstacle that where there is an economic interest, where there are interested entities, interested businessmen, to establish a zone for those places and those territories outside these privileged by nature of things and because of communication and infrastructure, it is necessary in some way to agree on the authority of the local self-government unit, which is quite natural. Because it doesn't really matter whether they have a free zone on their territory or not. We today have such maheras that would be able to form a zone, and I'm just surprised that some haven't used it, there's probably much better jobs for profit, it's probably a stock market, so then these money laundering and transfer accounts, but if they narrow down the possibilities for illegal acquisition, they'll probably focus on free zones. Because, you know, when Mladjan Dinkic defends something here in the Assembly and proposes some law, then that means getting ready to start. A certain group of friends immediately make quality preparation and then proceeds to conquer, because the old laws do not work, are not adapted to the private interests of certain people. I hope now that the citizens of Serbia can see much better that for months we've been bringing purely private laws here. The fact that someone in the coalition government may not be understood in the economy, or perhaps more understood in intelligence or in media stupidity, is another question, but these economic things, the economic things that fell on the weak shoulders of passengers to Ireland, have proved very negative in practice. Everything he suggested, everything he had done, had a negative effect at the very end, and we must warn as an opposition party, that we should draw attention to both citizens and future businessmen, future founders of the zone, future directors of companies that would operate zones, authorities of local self-government, so what is the concept, what can happen. The concept is very clear, recognizable, similar to banks. Anything that's domestic, it goes out, and it's about "out of it" to some. Insurance companies shut down, give the "off" to the others. If it's money from abroad, if it's money from here and it came from abroad, if it's in Ireland now to check out an account, if it's there so that it doesn't come back here, because the SB is closing a circle around financial malfeasances, I don't know. I wouldn't be surprised if it was a one-way ticket, without the possibility of going back, because according to my information, the circle closes, the dice come together, the mosaic gets some of its contours, there's something that looks like it, and it makes me suspect that there are elements of organized crime. Of course, he's always washed away by that famous sentence of democracy, and these latest events about lustration, as the peasants say, castration, and these other things suggest that something is shaking here, that the positions are changing, that there's a lot of crocodiles, and the boat has fallen. Since it's a small bar, not all crocodiles can go to the same bar, and then they have to bite. That biting goes over the paper. I've got a whole series of articles, I'm not much of a newspaper fan, but I've collected it so that at an appropriate time, if someone's replicating me, I can show that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the police know everything. They know all the details. Why aren't they responding? It is likely that this capacity is at stake, so I call on the MPs, especially the MPs of the ruling parties to gather amendments to the SRS and have insight into the overalls of a new concept of free zones law. He's in line with the usual solutions in the world. Why are we missing the effects of something happening in free zones? I think there's a little bit of an exaggeration around those free zones. That's what I have to tell you is that there's a little bit of an exaggeration around the free zones. If someone thinks there's a lot of traffic and free zones are big engines for the development of a society, it's only partly interesting. The most important thing about those companies, those countries that are called tigers of some development, is not so much in the free zones, but in the free financial market, in a favourable position of the government towards foreign capital, in the ability to transfer that capital, in the ability to reinvest that capital, and I have to say in a relatively cheap workforce. We don't even have the right elemental conditions for those who would reason with these performances to think about investing here. Why? Because there is no protection of that capital. That's what I have to tell you, because in no time can you do some fictitious work, a court dispute, a company goes into a blockade, blocks by a few dozen or hundreds of millions of dinars, issues a temporary measure, a company with two thousand people goes into the street. After a few months to realize that it was all a mistake, the company went away, disappeared. Secondly, you know for yourself, with so many cancellations, so few people are in a working relationship today that a rather lost relationship, i.e. a responsibility to work. Now people face this poor and poor woman almost and not pick a job just to come into some employment relationship to secure their existence. For years, not just these 15 years, but a much more promotional principle of success based on a jury account. There's an alarm when there's a payday to be paid. Since the pay is due, everything is accepted. There was a saying in Nis, I have to mention this famous Smile Kostic, the tobacco industry, the employees talked like this. We know he's stealing the tobacco industry, but as long as he's got it for us. Now he has blocked all privatisation funds in Nis, is not developing, and the geodetic recording is not doing the companies that participated in the tender, but has given the company from the Czech Republic. Apparently, it'll be cheaper and every 15 days he goes to the Czech Republic, he goes to Germany, he doesn't care, he's having fun, something seems to be sick, the secretary has to deliver paper to him, and he can't take it in his hands, because he thinks someone's gonna poison him. Nis survives one of Covic's laws on local self-government and any candidate who, by mistake, cheats or by system while there is a being for us, comes to positions to cheer and dress and destroy places. A lot of things have happened here selectively, and as you can see, this transformation leads to misery, the poor, the poor, of course we're opposition to that state and we're asking that this change be changed. Of course, some don't agree that we're asking it to change, which we're saying, what we're opening up, we're showing citizens where the causes are, where the problems of this poor situation are. Of course we will suffer various criticisms, various names that will bind us to names, names, the name of a political party. Believe me, all those who criticize us and leave these positions "plums and glues" talk a lot more about themselves than about the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28774	Does anyone else want a word on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the solution he made by amendment to Article 10, Mr Milovan Radovanovic, on behalf of the SRS, is more precisely defined and arranged. It is very important that what he stated in the second view that if the zone consists of several parts, each part must be specifically fenced and marked and that it can consist of several spatially separated parts, subareas that make up the economic and organisational continent of the zone, as is not the case in a project just shown, i.e. the lab that exists for the Lapovo municipality, which is surrounded by a total of 49 hectares. But in other parts of the country and in some areas, there may be such a situation on both sides of the river, as well as in Belgrade, there may be more of these continents, i.e. subzones, and it may be one free zone for the City of Belgrade. Now that it's about losing the free zone status and what's been going on so many years back when it comes to New Sad and other cities at all, I'm going to stick to the problem of the New Sad. The geostrategic position of the city and the highway, river, road and railway cars, international Danube port, business, business, business, scientific centres, potential, everything the City of Novi Sad has, especially now in this expansion when it comes to municipal infrastructure and building facilities in Novi Sad, I learned later, Mr Markovic, when I spoke about the opening of the Futo sports hall the other day that you commented and said – so there are, it's open in Serbia several dozen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28776	Ms. Jovanovic, I didn't comment on that, I just gave the information on 26 co-financing halls, since that was the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28777	Yes, it's clear to me, but since the problem is 25 years old, no one has been able before that to start and finish the project, because yet the first man of the city in this case, Mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs Gojkovic, has made in all this an immeasurable contribution, which certainly cannot be you, nor anyone to minimise, without living there, because citizens have such an accepted attitude. He said a colleague of Zivkucin said so. As for the activities in preparation for the establishment, first, customs zones, later free zones, and now Novi Sad has the status of customs zones, these works began back in 1984. The actuality of these solutions and the question of why free zones have not brought us some major economic expansion is the question, whether it consists of one whole or a subzon, as defined by counterpart Milovan Radovanovic, it is a question that is being asked for all previous authorities why they did not take advantage of the opportunity. This law itself will not bring anything if the role of the state is not important, especially for authorities at the level of local self-government. Our experiences so far show that there are presidents from the assembly, mayors of Serbian cities, Serbian radicals, yes and that there is a possibility of direct investment, and without it cannot be reduced to a level of minimal trade, to function in these free zones. The question is now being raised for Minister Dinkic, given that Article 5(5) is a key issue when it comes to restoring the status of the free zone to Novi Sad, because that job started in 1984, and the working group worked to prepare for the establishment of the customs zone in 1986, so in 1987, the SIV applied for the status to be obtained, so later it became a company of shareholders with a certain amount of capital, and today it is a public company for the construction of the City of Novi Sad, the majority owner of shares in the company Customs Zone Novi Sad, not a free zone. One of my colleagues, I think the distinguished colleague Krasic said that there was a possibility of abuse in terms of political patronage when it came to the functioning of the free zone and that is correct, it was seen in the case of several municipalities, in the case of the municipality of Zrenjanin, and Subotica; because Subotica was always for Kasa and his followers soft for the diapazon of jobs that personally benefited him and his associates. When it comes to the City of Novi Sad and this fact that with 29.24% of shares, the company for the construction of the town of Novi Sad, whose director is Mr. Igor Mirović, the MP of the SRS, who is otherwise engaged in the largest investment in municipal infrastructure, and all others interested in actions, such as Luka Novi Sad and other shareholders, tried to create something in their percentage amount at the level of the Novi Sad customs zone to actually restore that status for which they fought, you see, back in 1984, then 1986, then 1987. They've always come across a barrier by some authority and someone would have to be so morbid, and it was such a government of the Democratic Party in the past, to take away this status to the new Sad, which is first with Belgrade in these conditions now that they've started the job and had free zone status before, should plead and deserve to have that status and place, according to this law that has so far been in force and which we believe even in some of our provisions is more quality than what is proposed, and not to talk about future time. How will they now appear at the Ministry as an infrastructure, organisational, economic, territorial, under the new Article 5) of the law? What are they for you? Some economic operator who once lost that status and now can't show up? What is the role of these shareholders and businesses to build the city and everyone else, Luke Dunav and those who have fewer percentage shares? Will they and whoever guarantees it in the customs zone, hopefully the next free zone of Novi Sad, get the status it needs? These are questions none of you can answer, nor can you who have no right to answer those questions, and the minister is not here, nor can any of the colleagues who are MPs from, yet, majority groups or those who participated in the drafting of this law that we have criticism on. In 2001, a total capital cut was made on the basis of these facts of 9,374,904,000 dinars, but everything that was happening under the rule of Novakovic, who voted with his Thessaloniki card, participated in counterfeiting the vote during the Labour Act, which was on the Chelumafian "yellow" organisation of the Democratic Party, the mayor of Novi Sad, the people who found it is a depravated capital because, under their authority, Novi Sad had lost the status of the free zone and nothing was done to create some foreign trade and any economic shift. And now the uncertainty in front of all people is what will continue to happen to them and with their reregistration under this law that you will adopt with objections or not the SRS, obviously you will not, but it is now a big dilemma and a question that they asked me to put in their name and send me this elaborate that clearly tells me that they have always had difficulty in functioning and that, in the right sense of the word, this free zone gets the place that belongs to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28778	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28779	I would add that Novi Sad, or I would agree that Novi Sad must continue, when we talk about the free zone, its activity, because all this is said and many other things that define good conditions and predispositions for the free zone in Novi Sad are real. I expect that recently the free zone of Novi Sad will appear and be agreed to continue the work, which will be framed by law, to continue working with new investors, to continue working on the free zone of Novi Sad with new programmes that will, above all, turn to what is the objectives of this law and the idea itself, which is production and I don't see that we are different. New Now has all these predispositions and I hope that any form of this or it won't disable the opening of the zone. When it comes to Article 5(5), the law itself is very mild, allows for indeed, and that is ultimately the thing that is known, very great benefits, privileges, reliefs, all with the intention to encourage work and it is not only in this law, it is in all the laws of the countries that have free zones. It is therefore absolutely expected to increase the seriousness and greater responsibility of those who work in free zones, those who primarily form a free zone and there is an entirely justified one part rigorous and sharp, but it is not unexpected, and I think it is quite clear why it is all of this. Absolutely one type of priority is given, and it sets the state's interest to have local self-government interested in being involved in the establishment of free zones, for the reason that local self-governments themselves feel that they need a free area in their area of production development, for the development of a general economy in the territories where these local self-governments are located. This was an intensification in the formation of this bill and the proposal exactly G17 plus and the MPs who participated in this, that the conditions of rigidity, i.e. restrictions on point 5, do not apply to local self-government. Local self-government remains, regardless of what happened to the zones in the meantime, so they can re-establish, be founders of old, new free zones. I think there's something very good done here. Once again, local self-government has priority, for several reasons, when it comes to free zones.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28780	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28781	Col. Jaksic only used the opportunity to talk about the amendment, but he misread my presentation about Novi Sad. I can't argue in advance, until competent shareholders and shareholders make a request to the finance ministry, what kind of status they'll have. I am just warning you, as is now the case for employees in the Customs Zone of Novi Sad, that today is the most pressing issue in our environment, since you yourself know that because of the absence of customs barriers, due to various bilateral contracts and functioning within the EU countries, there is a tendency for certain companies to move their capital to this area, as they did in 155 industrial parks in Hungary and appears in our immediate environment of competition – Romania, Ukraine, which is also interested in attracting these foreign investors. We don't mind, these are friendly countries with which we have such economic and all other political relations, but it is very important that in the Vojvodina area, especially in Novi Sad, there is indeed a free zone that will be ready to receive all those whose expansion is expected in this area. Because the laws that we have, which should stimulate them, will certainly contribute to them and will, above all, invest their capital in the New Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28782	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Thank you all for this fruitful discussion. I sincerely hope that you two, who have further clarified this, will convince Mr Krasic, who just said he represents the opposite concept. We will continue after an hour's break by discussing the amendment submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 11. Resume at 3:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28783	We continue the afternoon work of the Assembly. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the amendment to Article 12, it's about users of the zone. "The users of the zone can be the founder of the zone, an economic society for the management of the zone, as well as other domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. Users shall carry out economic activity in the zone in accordance with the rules, and on the basis of a contract which regulates mutual rights and obligations with the company for the management of the zone. Users are obliged to run the accounts for the operation in the zone or separate accounting for part of their operations carried out in the zone. At the request of the Free Zone Authority, users are obliged to provide the administration with data on their business." The amendment to Article 12 of the SRS, which I have quoted, should change and read: "The founders of the zone form a society in which the founding role of a foreign person cannot be greater than 49%. The company's founding act, as set out in Article 1, contains provisions prescribed by law governing the establishment of companies." It is clear from the SRS amendment that the minimum conditions regarding the founding capital of the company are laid down, as well as that it is a company managed, not a company or any other person who may be the users of the zone. It is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia should create such a political and economic environment where economic operators can express themselves and that the market economy can be expressed, but since the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to adequately regulate the needs of citizens and to meet citizens remains presidents of local self-government to just compensate for this lack of the government of the Republic of Serbia. And if you look where Serbian radicals are in power, you'll find that they're doing great, starting with the mayor of Novi Sad, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, where you had the opportunity to see how and how to start working around the gas thermal power plant, where there's a combination of Swiss money together with Russian capital, where there's the biggest investment in Serbia. Or, for example, when it comes to the German firm Knauf who tried to build in Belgrade, and then came to an obstruction with Mr. Labus, because he was obviously not in the mood or asked for adequate compensation so that he could give them the right environment for the company, one of the most famous German companies, to start working. Then they came in contact with Gordan Pop-Lazic, the president of the Zemun municipality, and apparently managed to make an adequate contract and that factory began, to the satisfaction of all citizens, to work. I, as president of the Leskovac Municipal Assembly, can boast that in six months we have made two really big contracts, primarily a deal with the Rizan District of Russia, as well as with the city of Lan Jo, the western part of China, that is a city that has over three and a half million inhabitants, where and how they are in the mood to co-operate with our largest municipality, not counting on those municipalities that have the status of the city. It's exactly the right example where we can allow foreign capital to come into our local self-government and be properly directed. Also, as a good example, in 10 days, as president of local self-government, we will hand over to the clinic Dr Stojkovic, the world's most famous geneticist, the man who worked in Germany for a long period of time, and then in Great Britain, then Spain and now, thanks to his understanding in the local self-government of Leskovec, he returns in ten days and the clinic goes back into his hands and starts treating the parent bedbugs that treat malignant diseases, parkinsonism, all that has been imaginary so far to try treatment. We are well on the way to getting these difficult patients in a very short period of time in a state that these diseases that are incurably incurable are easily solved. In addition, we have made such an ambience that on the basis of such a good project and the vomit of such good faces, which are recognizable not only in Serbia but in the whole world, as the most famous scientists, foreign capital followed. Representatives of the Italian pharmaceutical house want to invest more than three million euros in equipment and everything that is related to the clinic, regardless of the great influence of the Roman Catholic Church in Italy and this negative impact on everything that is progressive, advanced, well. The Roman Catholic Church is obviously blocking such progressive ideas, but fortunately there are many Italians who understand what progressive progress is, not only our society but also the humanistic ideas that are being realized in our homeland and in our cities, so these people know what it means to invest in real projects. That is why I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take these projects much more seriously, that these free zones are developing, that it enables the right environment, because where the representatives of the SRS rule, have proved that both the West and the East want to work together, that it is not a capital problem but is a problem in the right environment and people who want to direct this capital without personal benefit for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28785	Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28786	As part of the amendments submitted by Dr Goran Cvetanovic, an MP of the SRS, and from all these fantastic examples that he has drawn from his municipality, of course, he is a modest man and did not want to say that his role in all these projects and what was agreed on for the town of Leskovac is really great, I have to get ahead of myself and say that this percentage of 49% is not a matter of any barriers, nor of what individuals are justifying that this limit of 49% is destimulating for inopartners, is not true at all, because potential stakeholders such as one company in Florida, such as the one that appeared from Austria, "Vocar" AD Belgrade related to the Lapovo free zone, and how they were interested in the context of returning the free zone for that territory. It's important that investors give it to you themselves. Prior to the break, Zoran Krasic spoke about who they are dealing with and who are the authorities in local self-government and who are in the state. If they see crime and corruption as a key problem for investment in our country, which is really a pain for every citizen in Serbia, and if in this sense they are depressed that they do not want to co-operate with the mafia that exists in many cities, such as the City of Belgrade, with Bogdanovic you cannot just knock on the door, you couldn't even go to Hrustanovic, you couldn't come anywhere in Serbia where these "yellows" are in the DS authorities and legally look for a job. The construction mob does what they want. How, then, they expect on the basis of such corruption and crime, which exists in local self-government in a city that has free zone status, to co-operate with some in principle market conditions and free investment. I can't, because they're looking for a percentage. So with this Jelenkovic in Lapovo, people appeared, visited, offered various projects, this one could hire 10, some 50, some 100 workers, a little bit, for a municipality that has 10,000 inhabitants, it's a big job and there's nothing. That is why it is important in the future to guarantee the republican authorities and above all the agility of people who are in diplomacy; we now have no foreign minister, there is one who falsely presents himself, citizen Vuk Draskovic, president of your failed political party who should dream of the 3%, let alone the 5% censorship. In such a non-serious state where one man falsely presents himself as foreign minister, in a situation where who knows how many criminal charges ended up in waste baskets, in some drawers. You have an example of the New Now. How many of you are MPs sitting down, being political opponents to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, but you know that the unprecedented crime produced by the DS. What did she produce by taking power, or by giving confidence by the citizens? For example, every day one by one, she just told me in half an hour she was going and opening swimming pools at the Fair in Novi Sad, which were opened when she was the seventh grade of elementary school and are now being renovated under radical rule and Maja Gojkovic after almost 30 years. Then what are we talking about? You've destroyed everything in the state, and this government and the previous one. How can you expect a shift? Thus, when normal people come to power, like Mrs. Gojkovic, today, however, it may not be a day for swimming, there are no ideal 30 degrees, but she did something good for her citizens, for her city and business for the construction of the city and for all people in businesses, and for all those who want to do normal work in a company now called the Customs Zone, because in the meantime Novi Sad lost the free zone status. The question arises, what was the criterion for abolishing the status of a free zone for the City of Novi Sad. The most ideal place, I was just talking about it, before the break, were allegedly managed by some of the world's trade organisations and the EU, at that moment it was appropriate for them, and now they're doing the same thing when they propose a law like this, and I think of Dinkic and you who are in the group around him, as if God forbid you have amnesia, so you don't remember what happened yesterday. I know that Boris Tadic doesn't know anything, he doesn't know anything about the loss of our people, or who our traditional friends are, or who we're supposed to be working with, or who he's supposed to be dealing with, or what they're doing, or, or, very well, because one of the biggest mobsters has taken 27m euros to pay the American Congress to work against the interests of the Serb people and above all, the party that has the most trust in the electoral body, but you don't want to know some of the things from the middle you come from, it's not hypocritical but irresponsible and the citizens will sanction you in the elections. You can't tell one story once, you can't tell another one. I don't address any of you specifically, but to those who were followers of the former Dossian policy and welcomed all these obituaries, and now that it's absolutely the same in continuity and in the same way and through the prescription of the law, and through the attitude that Kostunica has, it's all nice to you, and you welcome it. Kostunica and Djindjic, in 2002, promoted free zones at a conference held at the Hotel "Hajat" called Success in Serbia. But, see, that's how it was left on the paper, now that you ask Kostunica what he was saying and promising then, he doesn't know, then he was president of the SRJ, not that my impression, but I'm absolutely confident that at all, leaving it so-called. Mladjan Dinkic did not enter into the essence of this law, and today this came ideally to him, that he must go on this agreed official trip, which is his problem again. If he came back from here with some contracted business and capital, would the people even justify it?- I'm sorry. When there was a debate about this law in principle, three sentences if he spoke and that's all. So, he didn't want to engage in this matter, and he didn't want to object in any way to the views of the SRS because he probably knows so much that he's wrong and that our arguments and attitudes that we're making are as strong as the concept of this law that's much better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28787	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28788	At first, I would only make a link between this amendment to Article 13 and the previous amendments to the SRS. It won't take that long, so I'd start with Article 10. – "The zone can consist of several spatially separated parts – subzones, which make up the economic and organisational continent of the zone. If the zone consists of several parts, each part must be specifically fenced and marked." Article 11. – "The zone is established if it is economically justified", so the brackets state the criteria on which the economic justification for the establishment of the zone is determined, but this is not the final list. It states "attraction of foreign capital, production and provision of services, employment, transfer of modern technology", there are other indicators, on the basis of which it can be appreciated the justification of the establishment of the zone, "if goods are exported from both abroad and provided for spatial, construction, energy and technical conditions, conditions for environmental protection and other conditions for the smooth operation of the zone established by this law". "The founders of the zone adopt an act on the establishment of the zone, which contains the name of the founder, the name of the zone and the area of the zone." The previous amendment to Article 12 referred to the structure of capital: "The founders of the zone form a society, in which the founding role of a foreign person cannot be greater than 49%. The company's founding act, as set out in Article 1, contains provisions prescribed by law governing the establishment of companies." He's referring to the Zone Management Company. There's no interference, it's a standard provision, which is also used for all kinds of foreign investment in our country, so before the great benefit is given here by giving itself consent to the establishment of the zone. There is a justification that in the capital structure of the founders be this ratio 51:49% and so far it has never been an obstacle to the successful operation of the zone, so the interference for the work of our zones has been beyond this founding capital structure. Now we come to article 13. The bill, of course, I'm only talking about the concept of the SRS. Article 13. The Government's proposal refers to the regulation of the zone, and our Article 13 defines what all zone management companies submit to the Government when they seek consent. I have to read this now: "The Society is submitting to the Government, through the Ministry of Finance Affairs, a request for consent for the establishment of the zone, or sub-area. In addition to the requirement set out in Article 1, the company submits: 1) an act establishing a zone, i.e. a sub-zon; 2) an elaborate on the economic justification of the establishment of the zone; (3) evidence that the company, i.e. the founders of that society, has the right to use, on any basis, the land on which the zone or sub-zon is established.’ It's a very interesting provision about the right to use. I would just return your memory to one of the laws that defended the minister of economic relations with abroad, which pretended not to know what the right to use means. The government's draft law on free zones also includes this termology – the right to use, so warn Parivodic and Dinkic to agree, as I get the impression that they don't talk when they use some terms. "4) proof that spatial, building, economic, energy, organisational and technical conditions will be ensured, environmental protection conditions... 5) an act establishing a society; 6) proof that there are no legal interferences prescribed by financial regulations in relation to the responsible persons of the founder and responsible person of the company." We, with one general provision as the last sixth point of Article 2 of our amendment, refer to the application of those provisions of the laws governing the financial sphere and speak of the incompatibility of certain functions and of the conditions for people who operate the company to meet it, but we did not want to rewrite it. In the Government's proposal, this is in Article 5, or I may have wronged the variants of their bill. It is the minimum conditions that are necessary, and since the minimum conditions are required under this law, then the number of evidence is very clearly distinguished and set up, so I have to say, the requirement for obtaining consent for the establishment of the zone does not fall within the order of those requirements that are applied daily, because there is a need for a large preparation, primarily one quality elaborate on the economic justification of the establishment of a single zone, with perspective and possibilities and its successful business. If there is no such thing, then likely and potential founders give up establishing a zone, because practically only costs are being made, and in the beginning it is known that there will be no profit later, nor will it be able to achieve some of the objectives and economic interests that I was just talking about, which are taxingly listed, just as an example, it is in our amendment to Article 11 of this bill. I think that this solution that we propose is simpler, more transparent, easier for potential founders, easier for the government when it decides whether to give consent and is easier for the ministry to assess whether the conditions are met. Of course, in this amendment and in this article, we do not treat the matter of procedure, because it is governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Government Act and other regulations governing the form of solutions and whether it has the consent to set up a zone. We think that this is the minimum that it is necessary for the Government to have a real picture of what the founders have gotten into and whether what the founders are trying to do and what is covered by the requirement, has some perspective or is something that could be said volunteering or trying to simply figure out another job. I have to draw attention to the fact that if this bill is adopted as proposed by the Government, then it really depends on the man who is headed by the Ministry of Finance, regardless of what these provisions exist that dictate exactly what everything needs to be done, how it should be done, etc. I think it all depends on his discretionary will, and one law must not contain such provisions, where all would be left to the discretion of an individual. Well, even the rule when a provision of a law gives some discretionary authority, it is always in some way limited to some parameters that can be interpreted as conditions, criteria or some criteria, because in practice there is one false understanding that discretionary authority gives that person the ability to do whatever he wants. It's not discretionary authority, it would be willpower, and in one law we cannot prescribe self-will as a system, as a style of work, as a way of deciding any individual who is in any function in the structures of the state government. I would like to invite you to take into account this not only legal-technical but also other advantages, I mean the economic benefits of this concept that we advocate, which is precise, because everyone can easily concentrate in our provisions and find what they think is necessary, before making a decision on the establishment of a zone, before making a decision on the establishment of a zone management company before making a decision to be a user of the zone, before making a decision to register in some way to carry out some economic activity in the Republic of Serbia. I have to say that the free zone has quite an effect on an extraterior area where business is not subject to our regulations, which is said to be 100%, but only in part, when it relates to environmental protection, spatial and other conditions, but in terms of their performance, there is free action and depending on where the goods go from the zone, there is an appropriate regime and traffic in the external trade part of these goods. In addition to these minimum conditions, organisational, technical and other natures, and later you will see through the provisions that we have given, the role of the competent inspection authorities is important, especially the customs office, which is there, which controls whether external trade is being carried out illegally, whether customs traffic is under control and whether it is in accordance with our regulations, so in that sense I reserve the right to report later when we reach that area. I think it's important when you talk about this law to be realistic, because you don't need to be skeptical, you don't need to spread some false optimism. Economic interests are handling everyone when studying whether they are entering a free zone project, regardless of what function, founder, member of the management company or user of the zone to perform their business, but I don't think they should expect spectacularly in terms of employment and other matters, because we have a law on free zones long ago, and as you have had the opportunity to notice from these current discussions, despite so many areas, territorially distributed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, few of them are doing today and the question is what they are doing is the scope and perspective. I must say, the existing law is no obstacle to such a situation in free zones. You will see later in our proposal, we have reduced that percentage, or at what percentage of the total activity should be the goods intended for export. There is no point if such a provision does not exist as a restriction, because then it is right to ask the question if such a restriction does not exist, then why is there a free zone when it can also be done with a formula of foreign investment. So, the condition that, in the zone of total activity, mandatory goods are exported abroad justifies the existence of a zone and so on. an external area where the internal economic order is not valid. If that's not there, it's a malfeasance. I need to make that clear and public right now. He can't convince me at all that setting up a zone by these liberal concepts and the will of a minister would be justified if a zone was created in Black Travis where there are problems with communication, with water, with phone, with electricity, with everything. Then some NN shows up with a registered company at an airport in Vienna or the Netherlands, with some foreign names, and some fall for those English words, and they fall on the head of a lucky poor girl, and then later it turns out to be just a drug dealer. He's going to pay the customs office to open up there, pay the customs officer and pay him fat enough to finish the job. I may have taken a very strong example, perhaps even theoretically inconceivable with us, but it is possible to abuse an extremely good idea about the formation of free zones as kind of extraordinary areas where there is much more freedom to perform the work, but once a predetermined fenced space with a special regime when it comes out of that space or when a slave enters that space. That's the whole point. All those who advocate this absolute liberalisation in terms of conditions, etc., and by a system that later comes down to one individual, I must say you are giving me reason to doubt that they are not honorable intentions with such a concept as the Government has suggested. I have to draw attention, he's been promoted here for years, not just these five years, but even earlier, the principle -- let's take money from abroad. Good idea. In 2003 and 2004, I criticised a minister, so I called one "euro minister", because he should talk about the form of foreign trade and about some benefits, etc., and he goes out and bids the figures, he says -- two million euros, three million euros, four million euros, as Pitic says, only talks about euros. He's already in a bank. That's the danger of searching and greed for money from abroad. You get into everything and everything, as you unthinkablely enter into responsibilities, in these descriptions of written and non-refundable claims based on foreign loans, so be it here and here, that everything we liberalize will come from abroad, and it will bring you that money. There's no such thing. You saw yourself in this experience with foreign banks. Your vice governor criticises the banks you brought in. Not you by name and last name, DOS policy since 2000, and every day there will be more and more problems with these foreign banks. I read this morning that business with non-resident dinar accounts is going on, how the transfer of funds is done and the capital of the citizens' income needed to live in this country is being sucked abroad. I can't accuse strangers. Probably these fuckers have some accounts abroad where they're stockpiling funds, and here they're playing big Europeans, patriots, experts, experts, and who knows what.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28789	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28790	The amendment that has just now been considered by fellow Members fully contains everything that is in the bill itself. It doesn't match the number of members and it doesn't match the part in one or the other variant. So, in the Bill's proposal, all of this is given in the request-containing section, contained in the requirement to be delivered to a particular ministry responsible for financial affairs, which is in charge of this. So everything in your amendment is here too. I think it's a good thing it's all there, with it being in article 6. The draft law in the contents section requires a slightly broader requirement of what the applicant needs to apply from documentation and without the right to be complicated, because it is absolutely clear that the procedure needs to be simplified maximumly, rather than jeopardising the legality and very idea of creating free zones, so it is inserted that data on the founding capital of the company for the management of zones are also included in the content of the law proposal. This shows, above all, the responsibility and seriousness of the legislator of this law that we are talking about, the law on free zones, because many times everyone who came out of the box mentioned that free zones are a place of obvious and very clear relief and convenience and, of course, for the reason that the state would not in any way be abused, that society, that citizens would not be exploited in any way and only the right given by law in the zones misused for some other benefits. I think it's a good thing the bill just says that there are data on the founding capital of a zone management company in the content of the request. However, there needs to be rather liberally given as a possibility that anyone can manage the zone, establish, but that there is still a degree of responsibility. There are also two other things that I find significant in the bill itself. When it comes to the requirements, i.e. the requirements contained, which is proof that spatial, building, energy, organisational and technical conditions with regard to environmental protection, as well as other conditions, should, in some ways, be provided with widely accepted liberalisation when this matter is to be given, but of course controlled, we need to see that there is some seriousness. So, it can't just be a request for form, it can be for order, it can be seen that someone really wants to make the zone a serious place for serious business, where for the sake of the state and its citizens, there will be serious capital and serious traffic. This is acceptable, as well as the opinion that this is particularly significant, that in the content of the request, there must be an opinion by the local self-government authority on the justification for the establishment of the zone. Here we all agreed that this is very important for the reasons why the zones should be territorially in those places, in those local self-governments where it is assessed primarily by those local self-government that it is necessary; that there are opportunities, that local self-government still sees locally, rather than the state itself, the interest in being a free zone. She'll definitely support it. We now have a case of precisely free zone Piroth, as currently the most successful zone, that nearly thirty years ago local self-government gave all possible reliefs in the use of land and the construction of buildings on that land, as well as the use of infrastructure on that land. Of course, local self-government and each other who is one of the founders of the free zone should, by this example, be guided and, of course, by a certain opinion of the ministry that it is precisely its proposal or its consent, that the place in that, some free zone is right in their local self-government, in their midst, to the benefit of their citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28791	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28792	I answered because of the inaccuracies. I have to draw the public's attention that these two concepts, which represent the SRS and what the government represents, have no touch points, the difference is mental nature and that you know. You are talking about the content of the requirements of Article 6. The government's bill, but I have to say that this request refers to a single request for the government to determine the area of the zone, so it goes by the name, seat and PIB founders, completely irrelevant data. Today whoever speaks gives these registration numbers. Why should we be burdened by the law with these things? Our concept is based on the government giving consent to the establishment of the zone. The founders are free, but in order to start working and that society to start doing that work gets the government's consent. You've brought the government down to the Ministry of Finance's instrument and it needs to determine the area of the zone. Determination of the area of the zone is the determination of cadastrian parcels to be fenced. This is how the government behaves and considers its role in the entire free zone policy; to ambush, to invite ministers to vote from Ireland on the phone or fax about which parcel will be covered by the area of the free zone. Then the man comes out and says it's the same as the radicals suggested. A huge difference, God and a hatter. Don't be so relativizing our amendments and our concept of law. I sometimes comment on your concept, but don't put the sign on the same page. We run away from it, we do not want a sign equal, so that the citizens may say the same thing. They only argue over a point or a point. We don't humiliate the government as an executive authority, that it determines catastrian plots. No, she gives consent, without her consent, she can't work the zone. Why? Because the zone is one exclusive right. Who gives exclusive right? The government of the Republic of Serbia. For you, it is the exclusive right to determine the area, plots 1244/1, 1244/2, 1244 to 25. That's not how we experience government. We see the government as the central authority of the executive government under the Constitution and the law, not the quasizacon of the private nature of the people who went to Ireland, and whether or not they'll come back, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28793	The word is made by the MP Goran Jaksic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28794	I am pleased to stick to what is the purpose of our work, which is to explain the legal proposals, or our remarks when we have them. Yes, there is a difference, the law is formed in one way by the government and in one quite other way by your parliamentary group, or party, but there are obvious identities, similarities and even your MPs agreed. I don't think it's a problem. We're talking about important things and technical aspects and one important thing. So, the difference is technically that the bill says that these are the conditions for determining the area of the zone, whether you agree or do not know, but I think we agreed in the performances for the pay phone. The free zone has a certain kind of exteriority. In order not to confuse people, even lawyers and economists themselves, but we are talking about it in essence is some sort of exteriority, primarily in the part of the economy, or finance, fiscal policy above all. So, the territory by this concept, which you were ultimately presenting, is very important, perhaps the most important technical item in the formation of the zone. The territory itself has to be located geographically, microgeographically, has to be controlled in a certain way. Anyway, I think we agree that territory is the most important, precisely for the reasons of a specific exteriority that is not only fiscal and financial economic, but it is definitely physical, because there is literally something being built on this territory and it is likely to build even more than it is now being built, and it must be covered as a first item in the bill as a technical and first condition. Of course, some other conditions are being dragged out, and it's written in the bill itself, and in your amendment, after all, that's what it says. This further draws on other conditions which and how they must be related to territoriality, which relate to other things that are technical equipment, legal, legal organisation, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28795	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28796	Dear People's MPs, the Bill on Free Zones is a very bad legal project because some members of this law as an essential part of this law are in direct contrast to the Constitution, they are very inaccurate, unclear, unlike amendments of the SRS which are very clear, precise and conceptually different from the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The law would never have been applied or applied depending on whether it decided to apply the finance minister. Otherwise, the large number of laws you have passed in the congregation to this day is not applicable. In that sense, the concept of the SRS is much better, so I, too, submitted an amendment to the Free Zone Law on behalf of the SRS, by proposing that Article 14 be changed and read as follows: "The Ministry of Finance Affairs assesses the economic justification of the establishment of the zone, i.e. the sub-area. The establishment of the zone is economically justified if, on the basis of the accompanying elaborate and other supporting evidence, it can be estimated that it will be exported from the zone abroad at least 20% of annually produced goods, i.e. services carried out in the zone." Therefore, the proposal for this law, proposed by the Government, does not provide for an economic justification for the establishment of the zone, while the SRS proposal details the economic justification which will, of course, be adopted on the basis of an economic elaborate so that a specific area can start working. As for the conditions and modes of operation and control of the operation of the zone, the SRS also has much better and more concrete solutions. I therefore appeal to you, honourable Members of the People, in the day of the vote to adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28797	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28798	This is a very important member in our version, which is a Article 14 that practically prescribes the conditions on which it is proven that there is an economic interest in establishing a zone. I must say, in the current law, this percentage is 30% of the total goods produced and the services performed. I'm talking, of course, about the future time since it's an economic justification lab, which is estimated on the basis of documentation, evidence, possibly some pre-contracts, some pre-contractions, some analysis, is a single assessment of when a zone is established, of course, when a two-year deadline is due to be built, can then take effect by users who, as a final effect, will have the appropriate exports of goods and services from the zone. In the current law, it's 30%. It's a disturbance somewhere in some areas, in some areas it's not a distraction, but if we compare the operating zone with the conditions prescribed by law to the possible establishment of a zone, we're stronger by one experience, so we can notice and see what's going on. It's, first of all, a simple fact. Where there was economic interest in establishing zones, they could have met this condition, and where there were political factors, the admission of personnel and what goes forward for a financial job, it is likely that there are problems, and it is believed to be rigorous conditions. In order for that to not happen, the government has also proposed in its concept something that has no conditions, but I just remind you, in the Government's Article 6, where it's about a request that requires consent to determine the area of the zone, very often the word "restructure" of an enterprise is used, so that, you see for yourself, faced with reality, they went to a concept where, practically, there is no establishment. In fact, the Government's bill doesn't talk about establishing a zone. Someone has well noted that there are no provisions on establishing a zone, but this law should serve to selectively amnesty of some, to verify the existing state or to overcome the existing situation by restructured certain companies, and this concept shows that the burden of this would fall on some units of local self-government that would receive a legal basis to engage in all possible processes. Perhaps this concept of yours has some economic logic, however, it is not in the way of those reforms that are being discussed and which are necessary, in the end, to free the state from these economic activities and even the responsibilities for the business of some economic operators. I believe that this minimum condition of 20% of exports should stand in the law, because it essentially shows whether the establishment of the zone is justified. If there is no such export of goods and services from the zone, then there is really a question of why this special status for one territory, for an area-controlled enterprise and for those using the zone, when they, I say, non-exportable activity can be achieved elsewhere, so if they consider that large fixed costs, they can be dislocated on the territory of some undeveloped municipalities, where the fixed costs will be irreparably reduced. The fact that the Government's proposal lacked that information about some obligation to export and the total volume, only shows that we are at different concepts, which I am extremely pleased with. As much as in previous members as we have talked about what might be a criterion for assessing economic justification, I must point out that in our concept, this assessment of the economic justification of the establishment of a free zone is not something rigorously set, that it goes to the point, because it is essentially a projection that is probably suffering some changes by the fact that from making this document to giving consent, although the deadline in our concept is 30 days, but even if it is six months, it is possible to change the conditions. I wouldn't take any other goods as a criterion, but it's enough just to look at what happens to the price of energy, so it could probably happen to some other goods that would be interesting to produce in the zone. We're in the field of a projection, and it has to be quite established, it can't be virtual, there can't be a list of good wishes. In this regard, these two positions, however, are that the Ministry of Finance assesses economic justification. You see, we didn't say here that it gives positive or negative, no, but evaluates, checks whether it's all true, whether it's possible, whether it's properly expressed, so with its opinion it goes before the government that decides on it. It is a perfectly normal course of things in the phase of giving consent to the establishment, and before, practically, the cornerstone began to set up and move with the building of objects that are necessary for the performance of one activity.. I just draw attention to the fact that it may seem dry if, of all possible criteria of economic justification in this article, they all come down to this percentage of exports from the zone. It may seem dry, but there is no economic justification for the economy of the Republic of Serbia to form a zone, where goods would come, where some services would be done, and possibly some work would be done and the goods would be fully placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia. If that's any idea, then let's shut down our economy, make every factory a free zone. Then I draw your attention that there are no economic indicators that allow for the establishment and permission that an extraterior area can work like this. So in most countries, when the concept of free zones sets one such condition, it can vary, but there is something that brings all aspects of economic justification down to one criterion. If they need to make zones here or existing transformations according to this law or form new zones and that goods from these zones are not going abroad, then we don't need zones. Practically, then those zones become a place for reinvestment, transfer, asset transfer, and who knows what other things are being done. It's just customs surveillance, the goods get in, sit down a little bit, come out, etc. Such customs warehouses we have don't need new ones. In any populated place where there is a customs station, a warehouse like that could be opened where the goods would stay for 10-15 days and move on. I think it's necessary to set this condition, because then the concept of free zones gets in some seriousness. If there are no such conditions, then we do not have the concept of free zones, but we do have the concept of some quasi-perancy for some individuals and some groups that find interest in investing in building some facilities, being users and using these benefits, not for the benefit of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia, but for the benefit of some economic policy from abroad. Let me remind you, our market is open as a can for sardines. The opening started with an unreasonable liberalisation since January 2001, when goods directly competing with our producers entered from abroad. It's not a problem that she came in, it's that she went in at dumping prices, without any customs protection. Then someone's talking about the indicators of our economic growth and how our economy works. Our economy can't deal with foreign competition, and that's the end of the story. The fact that someone has promised to open up, which has promised that if he gets that and that credit, he has to do that and that liberalisation, etc., it's private combinations, not government business. That's what I need to draw your attention to. State business is every job that takes care of this country's economy, of the country's economy, of the economy, of the jobs, of the employees of this country. Since January 25, 2001, a completely different process has taken place: let us open up, we are looking forward to it. Of course they can't wait for our market. You do one analysis of the structure of our market and you'll see where the domestic product is, so you'll see what problems the domestic product is facing. We probably only have 50 products that can compete with foreign products on our market, and the other products are defensive, that's a fact. On this concept you are still pushing this concept of yours, without any restrictions on business, activity and exports from free zones. Then close all the companies, say – we said that the state is going to the era and until it's over we won't discuss the elections, we won't change anything. Talk a little more about that constitution, since you talk about it all the time. Where's the end? You'll be surprised again. Here, a few days ago a surprise – what happened in The Hague? I have been warning you from this pay phone for two years that Minister Kadadinovic, Minister Stojkovic, Rasim Ljajic, has prevented evidence of the victims of Serbs. None of our Hague defendants can get the evidence of this state and defend himself there, because this country does not allow it. That doctor, Bulajic, even collected computers from his Genocide Victims Research Fund and banned the work, moved the museum to Kragujevac. He's an 80-year-old man who needs to go there. Where are the civil servants working on these jobs? They're gone. We warn every once in a while, something happens, and then they say, "And in that is injustice." So we killed ourselves by explaining that it was injustice, that it was injustice. And all with some delay and some late-smart wisdom you're confirming our views. Listen to us from the beginning so we don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28799	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we come to that earlier dilemma of counterpart Jaksic in the field with our MP and the one who made the complete concept of the SRS on this poor bill, Mr Zoran Krasic, when counterpart Jaksic, apparently thinking it was a technical matter, and in fact it is essential about Article 15, said that no one is slowing down the need for investment, that the government will not create any barriers in that sense, which has not been shown so far. So we have a law on free zones, this is a different project. But today's numerous examples, of that scandal in Lapovo, at 49 ha of untapped space, of the status of the free zone of the town of Novi Sad and everything else that was happening, especially from the beginning and so on. economic liberalisation, we just have negative experiences. It is essentially a different amendment that I have submitted, from this Article 8. In this order, I don't know if you, sir, who's the only one left here from the Ministry, are able to track it, but you can see that the SRS reaction isn't on that member, it's only by the number of essentials of what it says, because as we suggested a whole new concept of what's contained in Article 15 of you is something like that in Article 8 and so on. Now, when it comes to the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am on behalf of the SRS in the amendment to Article 15, and the amendment says: "The government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, gives consent to the establishment of the zone, or sub-area within 30 days of the day of the orderly application. The consent referred to in Article 1 shall cease to apply if the zone, or sub-zon, does not start operating within two years of the date of granting consent." And what's so controversial about that? Nothing, and that's the only role the government should play, or the competent ministry. And according to Article 8, as you suggested, and you say it's the same, so it's not the same, it's completely different. The government decides which area. So please, you deny yourself. It can't be any area in the country to decide whether, we'd like to, and by our concept, it's a completely liberal approach to the free zone institute. If a person fulfils all the conditions in geographical, infrastructure position, as regards founding roles, with regard to potential labour force, the reliefs to be given, etc. It is impossible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to influence what area it will be and how it will be limited. Isn't that left to these organs as mentioned today? For example, the congregation of Zrenjanin municipality adopted its protocol, or memorandum on the establishment of a free zone. And what's the problem, are they supposed to decide where that area is? They did. Did the Lapovo municipality do it? Yes, it is. Did I show you today a detailed urban plan? Well, they're not going to let the finance department do that, to draw out which route is that, where the river flows, where the stream, which is the street and so on. So you're practically telling your bill in Article 8 that the government is going to do it. You know when you say: determines the area – exactly everything has to be drawn, absolutely everything as it was given here in the Lapo view on this map already shown today, as it exists for every other city. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot deal with this. What's supposed to be a significant role for the government? So, with all these neat documents that apply within 30 days, that the consent not to engage in obstruction, if consent goes in the direction that the free zone is assigned to that municipality, the city where Serbian radicals are in power. Because, all the presidents of the municipalities and the Mayor of Novi Sad, I mentioned it many times today, Mrs Gojkovic via Stevović from Požega, now Rankic from Bor, he is just running into the first barriers, not to mention the Zemun case and so many times Mrs Pop-Lazic herself has been presenting her negative experience. No one can have normal communication and co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia. You want me to remind you that during the time the Serbian Radicals were in power and the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as the Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, had just come out to meet the then-president of the Municipality of Cačak, according to his own recognition, and today, the capital minister who planted his feet everywhere with Serbian radicals, Velimir Ilic. Remember the first appearance of Velimir Ilic after 2000, it seems to me that it was some duel of President Seselj with him on TV "Politics". He publicly confessed and said -- well, if it hadn't been for Vojislav Seselj, there was nothing I could have done as the president of Cačak municipality. Now, that's how power is exercised, power on a republican level, but don't make obstructions, and don't interfere with people doing work where the people chose them. Like this, they're wondering what happened to the Novosadians and who it occurred to take away their free zone status. Since 1984, people have been fighting for it, but I'm not surprised. When the City of Novi Sad had to wait 32 years to open city swimming pools at the Fair today and to do so by Maja Gojkovic, i.e. the radical government, then go to towns and municipalities in Serbia and see how abandoned it is. The story itself and the maintenance of these seminars and this mentioned in Hayat and the conclusions of various and various action plans, nothing. What he writes to you in the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, conditions with an action plan to capture General Ratko Mladic, save God. So who in their right mind can justify it? This is the hardest possible humiliation of the Serbian people and of the state, crawl, crawl, they step on you, step on you, beat you on the head, and you say: it is excellent, it is right, we deserve it. It is not Serbia's citizens, they want the opportunity to work, they want the possibility of these foreign investors coming, and individuals refer letters with their intentions. But who do they turn to? Now the government to determine. Does that mean, sir, you really can't sit there like a mummy, and on the other hand, it's not offensive to me or anything, I'm sorry in a certain way. You're forced to listen to it all, you can't make any arguments. This practically means this – that the government of the Republic of Serbia will now determine now the area of the free zone of Novi Sad. And the lab I showed you this morning, which was delivered to me by the mayor's office, Mrs. Gojkovic, tells me that teams of people were involved. My people, since 1984, have been going through this process, so the legal regulations have changed, so we've been talking to those SIV communists, one and the other, and market conditions have changed, and that famous stabilisation process, so the foreign exchange regime is different, so our national currency ratio to the German mark then, etc. Do you think anyone can accept something like this? It's impossible for you to have any intention of handing the job over to the government. Isn't that right, colleague Jaksic? Is it possible that you went to the Serbian Government to determine the area of the free zone? Your only solution is to accept this amendment, as much as you accept something, because it can't survive like this, as lawyers would say, in legal traffic. No government in any country in the world deals with this. Where there are free zones, I will give you an example from two years ago of President-elect Brazil, Mr Lula da Silva, when there was an expansion of free zones in that country, he called on all other friends and those who want both well and his country and in the context of the fight against globalisation at the summit dedicated to free zones in the world. It also took place on 2 January 2004 at an initiative by Pakistan on the free zones of Pakistan, South Asia, to reach an agreement on establishing a free zone of South Asia. We are now discussing whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will limit some space, so I guess it is the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to achieve these contacts like these statesmen I mentioned, to play an active role in all of this, or to have a whole new project that I was talking about, such as the waterway to Great Morava via Vardar to the Aegean Sea and the port of Akios in Greece. It's a $15 billion project of foreign direct investment. Then both Pogorjevac and Stalać and many other cities could plead, get free zone status because it is something that is the spinal pillar of not only our river traffic, but that would shorten sailing to the Aegean Sea in three days. Now you're wondering, I'm talking about a 15 billion-euro figure, who's going to get into this situation and who's going to invest that money? People know that this project exists, from university professors, from those who have been dealing with spatial planning for decades, river traffic in our country and complete spatial planning for all Serbia. They already know that there are investors in the West who are willing to invest in such a thing and what a small thing it is. You see, through the realization of such contacts and the formation of summits or bilateral relations between countries like these, Pakistan, South Asia or those in Latin America, there is a certain solution. I repeat again what I told you in the afternoon, EU countries have a total of, if I am not mistaken, about 25 free zones. They have no such interest in doing so because they have no customs barriers, no foreign trade barriers, no reason to believe that we are anything else, as well as neighbouring Hungary, and that we can attract those foreign investors. Not that post-poto, why we're selling our labour force, that is, the art and knowledge that our people are best cashed in right in the West. Because the best masters, the best factory workers are just Serbs, in Austria, Germany, wherever you want. But in any case, it's much more favourable for these investors and for any Japanese company for General Motors, for whom you want, to pay for multiple less labour in Serbia, but in any case, much more than those workers now have or have nothing. As soon as you got in, Mr. Markovic, just to tell you that Mrs. Gojkovic later, through me, told you that you were wrong when you mentioned those 26 investors. She told me to tell you that it was all the City of Novi Sad, so she took it as your joke, obviously, a likable reaction, but not true. Most of the city has the credit for building that hall in Futoga, and all investors are from the territory of Novi Sad. She asked me to tell you this before she went to open these pools at the Fair, which haven't worked for 32 years, but here's the chance today for some more of her ventures, Mrs Gojkovic, to be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28801	Replica, MP Predrag Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28802	Replication only to use the expression – true. Of course, it is my obligation to, as president of the National Assembly, work well with all the mayors, representatives of local, regional administrations, and I do so. In contrast, it's dangerous when good information is not transmitted and I can see that someone did, although I've made an explanation. A few days ago, to throw MPs, after finding out that unlike the sports hall in Futoga, in Serbia, the government did nothing to raise such halls in small towns, I only made a note that I would not give a word to those who began to shout – Golubac and to list the cities. I said -- we know, you have accurate reports, the Serbian government has helped, not fully funded, but it has helped build 26 halls, and that was part of the answer to the parliamentary question a year ago, which is why I know that information, so there's no need for us to discuss such things. I hope all MPs from all parliamentary groups support that both in small and large areas, whether with the help of the government, only with the government's funding, only with the funding of local self-government, or with the gathering of different donors, to raise as much as possible the quality of life of citizens. So this is just the support of Mrs. Gojkovic. I trust you on the word that it was just one city self-government that did it when it came to this hall, but it can be further cheered up, that in other cities, wherever there are capable people, where they are well organized and where they are done in time, sometimes with the help of the government, sometimes with someone else's help, it's rising and it's something that makes us all happy. So there's no reason to make amends, we're just talking extra data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28803	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28804	In order to be even better informed, since this is your obligation and I suppose the best intention to look at the whole situation when it comes to promoting individual mass sports, the competition in general, I must tell you that the town of Kragujevac, as the most sports city then received 20 million dinars from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to build a sports hall for certain club sports, is wasted. For the past two years, it has been in the account of your coalition partner, Mr Veroljub Stojanovic, and should therefore, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, worry about why he is not used for the right reasons. In the meantime, it was self-initiative, since there were some two concepts in the game, two sports eliminated, so it remained only volleyball or handball, as far as I think, which is actually a condition for working for the competition in some better equipped school halls, in primary and secondary schools, so you can see that there are such examples where because of the competitive spirit and because of the result of some city getting some money, but people who are inhuman, don't waste it. I've just come from a city that's not lucky to get a sports hall like Futog and Novi Sad, waiting for it, but it'll obviously wait for another power.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28805	Mr. Jojic, you're on your way, but you've got another minute and 23 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28806	Ladies and gentlemen, when you hear the government is giving money, it turns out it's some company that deals with business or production, so it has its own fund and its own income, and it's now sharing money with Serbian citizens. It's not that, it's that. The government cannot make statements in which it says – the government has given for building a hall in Temerin or Kovin. The other day, the minister of education came to Kovin and said the government will build two sports halls in Kovin and that day before the election. Last elections, there are no government officials to appear on the territory of the Kovin municipality, because it is pointless to keep telling people and informing Serbian citizens that the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving out of its pocket money. Let's break it up sometime. The leather bag, as the French call it, is the budget of the Republic, but it is the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of taxpayers, and the schedule of these funds should, of course, be controlled and given evenly for the purposes of construction, reconstruction and other needs of our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. As for Article 14, as the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica and the other MPs of the SRS spoke, there are only two sentences I want to say. Everything needs to be the finance minister's jurisdiction, and it's too much to give to the finance minister. In my opinion, by the nature of things, this does not fall under his jurisdiction, this is a portfolio that should cover the Ministry of Economy. Because the main goal is to have free zones, i.e. business activities. This means that these jobs are to be dealt with by the Ministry of Business, and now giving this to the Ministry of Finance's portfolio, it doesn't make sense. It's not compatible, it's contradictory. This doesn't make sense, there's no place for the Ministry of Finance to be given jurisdiction, even for the establishment and operation of free zones. I believe that the amendment of the SRS is indeed in place and should not deceive the citizens that the Government, whether it is the previous or this government or some future government, let it no longer be breast, that it gives money out of its pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28807	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28808	Of course, in such a legal proposal, as well as in some other legal proposals, there are more variations and more ideas. Who should be in charge of control and work, or above all, by giving consent in the functioning of free zones. In earlier proposals, since so far there has been no, when it comes to zones, intelligence has been on the finance minister. Now the concept of the Ministry of Finance is retained, but not for some reason another species, on the one hand, because of the technique, but also the principle. Almost all benefits, benefits and reliefs, both defined by current laws and future laws are from the finance ministry's field. That's one reason, so the finance ministry controls the implementation of work and the use of these benefits, because they're from his work. That's one reason. On the other hand, the largest number or almost all of the conditions required and requested in the submission of documents before the start of the free zone are almost all of the areas, i.e. the financial ministry's intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28809	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Bora Kutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28810	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have submitted amendments to all members of the bill. That's how we came up with two concepts of the bill. On the one hand, the Government Proposer proposal, and on the other hand the SRS MPs. When compared with these two concepts of the bill, one big difference can be seen in the quality of the proposal, as well as in the proposal of the government law, which goes by the MPs of the SRS. Someone said that these two draft laws or two concepts are similar, but I will try to prove through this amendment to Article 16 that these two draft laws are neither alike nor have anything in common. So, I'm proposing to be a member of the 16th. The proposal for a government law also changes that it states: "The company submits a customs request for a solution for the start of the operation of the zone, i.e. a sub-area no later than two years from the date of obtaining consent for the establishment of the zone, i.e. the sub-area. In addition to the requirement of Article 1, the company shall also submit evidence that spatial, construction, energy, organisational and technical conditions, environmental protection conditions and other conditions for the performance of the activity in the zone or sub-area are ensured." The government's reply is: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the start of the operation of the zone is set out in Article 14. The bill of law." Now we're going to see what the difference is. We have suggested that the company submits a customs application to the administration, and here it is in Article 14. The government's draft law says, "The fulfillment of the conditions for the start of the operation of the zone is determined by the finance minister, on a proposal from the commission educated by the representatives of the authorities." So, what counterpart Krasic said was given the authority of the finance minister or the commission he himself educates, while SRS's proposal to the customs administration is dominant. That's one of the reasons why I say these two concepts of the bill don't have much resemblance. I would ask the MPs to accept this amendment in the voting day, i.e. to accept this proposal and this concept of a bill that goes by the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28811	On the same amendment, it is the People's MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28812	In the provision of Article 16(3), it is normised and proposed: "It cannot be imported into the zone, nor can goods be exported from the zone whose import, or exit, is prohibited." Now the question is – why are these provisions not sanctioned in case someone breaks them? There are no words in the criminal provisions that sanctions will be taken for those who violate it. So whoever exports the goods or imports whose traffic is prohibited. We believe that this should have been regulated in a completely different way, because this leaves empty space, giving opportunity to those who are making, especially those responsible in the free zones, can import and export even goods that are banned, because they have no sanctions. You remember when it came to drugs, you remember there was a cash register of about 600 kilos of drugs. She's banned, you know who she was talking about, they wrote a newspaper, etc. See if anyone was answering, and if you know where she ended up with a 600-pound drug that's been in some restaurants. You see, in the free zones, we estimate, people from certain political parties or certain profiteers will get permits. This bill does not well-determined, nor does it try to prevent individuals who are in a position to break the law. The law had to be far more precise, more specific, the norms must be such as to prevent illicit trade, to prevent the carrying out of various abuses, and when it comes to the authorisation of free zones, the question now is that it will not be distributed in a feudal manner again. Will free zones form in Serbia towards the strength of the localities of individual parties? This is what will be dangerous for free zones and for the fate of this law. You have a chance at Panchev. Panchevo has all the conditions for a free zone. There were more negotiations and talks to open a free zone, because in the Danube waterway, there is no better location than in Pancheva. It's known that in Panchev you have an industry, there's a refinery, petrochemicals, azotars, glass mills and other branches, and that you have such a location that it was one of the most attractive places to open one zone. What happened? What happened was what the public was well informed about and happened through the privatisation that the profits for cheap money bought Luka "Dunav" the most profitable in the course of the Danube, Luka "Dunav" Panchevo. It was taken by the profiteers, came to Panchevo with a purse and a bow from the Canary Islands, from Russia the two of them and bought Luka "Dunav". The port "Dunav" has an exceptional strategic importance and a state, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia did not worry about whether the port should be sold and if it needs to be sold to, to whom it will be in office and something new is happening now. Getting ready for that buyer, the owner to resell. He'll resell it five times the price in a year and a half how long he's got to buy it and now he's getting ready to resell it and take the money and get out of this territory. Once again, there will be some profiteers who will turn the workers of Luke "Dunav" and the citizens of Panchev into black, damage, impoverish, and then become rich on the people's good. I say – conditions for free zones, which is the intention and which is the goal. Of course, wherever there are conditions for a free zone they should give, but to give and to be economically justified, where citizens of Serbia and workers will benefit from it. Now and this bill, the question is how much can it be applied in practice. But, all power to transfer and transfer to the government building and its officials, that's pointless. If we talk about free zones, which would not be one region or one strong municipality if there were conditions or one city that could not say – yes, local self-government wants to open the free zone and form in its area. In this way, it will all depend on government officials and give such powers and exclusive authority to the government. Then it's not a free zone, it's a restricted-term zone and limited powers. If everything should be, that depends solely on government officials, then it is not a free zone, there are restrictions and therefore free zones will be formed and opened at the will of the government, not at the will and interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28813	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28814	You, Mr. Chairman, won't mind me connecting a few amendments. I will start with this which we have just talked about on Article 16, where the company submits a customs application for a solution to start the operation of the zone, i.e. a sub-area no later than two years from the date of obtaining consent for the establishment of the zone, i.e. the sub-area. It's a deadline within which it should practically take action in the zone. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now article 17 follows, follows this logic. "Society does especially the following work." Article 17, 18 and 19, I am talking about our version of the bill regulates the work of a company to perform its work. "The company performs the following activities in particular: 1) organises and determines the conditions for construction in accordance with the law, maintains and provides space, infrastructure and technical conditions for uninterrupted operations in the zone and provides environmental protection measures; 2) manages the area and that: decides on the requirements for the performance in the zone, provides internal order in the zone, enters and exits the zone, provides conditions for the performance of customs, inspection and other surveillance, lays down measures for the protection of the environment in the zone and the tariff for the use of business space in the zone; 3) performs professional and other tasks of interest for the users of the zone, as well as other tasks agreed on the establishment of the zone". There is indeed a narrow nomenclature of business performed by a company operating the zone and, as you can see, it responds to the legal work of all users in the zone, so first of all from the aspect of the activity and the necessary restrictions prescribed in the previous provisions of this proposal of the law. I'd take the opportunity to explain a little bit what the next member in our version regulates, and that would be Article 18. "The society determines the way the area of the zone is used to perform the activity in the zone and regulates the interior order in the zone. The act governing the use of the area for the performance and order of the zone is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This is the requirement, as it is said modernly, that transparency is known to all interested persons and not only to them but to the public as to what, which actions can be carried out in the area in which they are carried out and what is the internal order in the zone, given that ten, 15 meters, or perhaps in a smaller distance, different economic operators with perhaps similar, possibly entirely different activities. Third position of our 18th position. - "It is the company's duty to allow each user of the zone to operate in the zone under the conditions laid down by law." We think this attitude 3 is very significant, because it might be better if I read article 19 now. "Society and user of the zone are governed by mutual rights and obligations." The purpose of all these amendments that we have submitted, 17, 18 and 19, is that in one way or another, with minimum limits, if I may say so, arrange this relationship, both the activity of the zone management company and the activity of the users of the zone, which is why, in the end of the case, there is a zone. A full public view of the operation of the zone has been provided, in terms of the general acts and rules applicable in the zone, and the relationship between the zone management company and the users of the zone is governed by the contract, and this contract is based on the rules made public by the zone. Of course, the component of these rules is also the tariff paid by the user of the zone to the zone management company depending on the variants found in the specific zone, so that it is possible for the zone management company to have a large number of immovableities and then, on the basis of this contract, issue in the lease of users of the zone, and it is possible for the users of the zone to build their facilities, be the owners of the facilities and do so, but then it has to be arranged around infrastructure, internal order. So you can see for yourself that we haven't even tried to impose something that could not be fulfilled, but we just wanted to sort out this relationship between the users of the zone and to indicate what activities are the basic activities of the Zone Management Society. I think in this numberation we hit exactly what's going on in the zone. We will not report for amendments to Articles 17, 18 and 19. Of the 20 members, we'll start reporting, because they're brand-new amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28815	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28816	Now there are provisions that have touch points with what's called the jurisdiction of the state, first of all I mean customs duties, so that I don't convince this best would be to read what we said in Article 20. "Export of goods and services from the zone and import of goods and services in the zone are free." This sentence should be interpreted in a way that defines the form of external trade, since goods are in and out of something that is the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, but in some situations with a delayed fact. Paragraph 2 reads: "The entry of goods into the zone and the provision of services in the zone shall be subject to provisions governing value added tax". Here we have very precisely said that this is a one-off traffic when it comes from the territory of the internal market where the domestic rules of goods or services are applied, then the one burden that exists under that provision is to pay the value added tax, what is regular and what is normal. Paragraph 3 reads: "Society and user of the zone may have tax reliefs in accordance with the rules governing corporate tax, property tax and citizen income tax." I think at first we skipped one member in both variants of this bill where the standard is that, when it comes to free zones, the principle of invariable conditions applies and I think that in our variant, we have maximum potential in one of the previous members. And as for the government's proposal, something is said, and I couldn't be sure that there was a potential for an invariable situation compared to the time some zones started. I believe that this provision opens up space, especially in Section 3 where we have not cemented the fiscal policy of the Republic of Serbia towards areas in terms of traffic activity, etc., we have already given a certain luft to give certain incentives to the Law on corporate tax, the Law on property tax, the Law on income tax to citizens when it comes to free zones. There's probably some space in this direction to come out of these problems that started at the beginning of this year when some zones came under the influence of the law, because apparently they've been tolerated for a long time, although they haven't met the conditions under the existing law. Those tax breaks weren't given here as an obligation, they were given as one option. And I think it's given in a very elastic way that this law provides for a possibility, and the size and size of what goes as tax relief is regulated by another regulation, and this regulation does not affect those solutions and changes in those three tax regulations, does not disrupt the inviolability of the conditions that someone has acquired under the free zones law. I think this is a very skilled formulation that allows a flexible tax policy, does not question the principles on which the law on free zones is based, and gives the state and the Republic of Serbia a certain space to encourage changes in its tax regulations, so if it encourages it in one general way rather than in some selective way to develop this type of activity. I have to say that something similar exists in the Government's proposal, but I think this formulation is far clearer, more eloquent, and this is how when read by potential founders or those, as you like to claim, who are willing to consolidate, rehabilitate, give more incentive or open more opportunities. That's what we had on Article 20. Of course, I don't comment on Article 20. The government's draft law, because now these two concepts have completely separated from each other and can no longer be monitored, although even in earlier members they could not literally follow logic, because they were completely, numerating and texting, these two concepts away from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28817	The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28818	One of the very significant intensities in the creation of this bill was precisely what the main reason for free zones are, and these are certain tax fiscal reliefs, which would make one decide between one and the other reasons why he would invest in building first of all production, but also other activities within the free zone. In Article 26. The bill of law given by the Government will take the opportunity to read it and I will be very brief. So, Article 26. The bill says, "The introduction of goods in the zone and the provision of services in the zone are subject to the provisions of the law governing value added tax." Article 2 "A user, i.e. an economic company for the management of the zone, can have tax reliefs in accordance with the rules governing corporate tax, property tax and citizen income tax." Since we need to be completely open to the citizens and ourselves, this member of the law is something that I personally, as a member of the task force, have just insisted on. It's not much of a mind. It is a proposal that exists and is very important in all the serious laws that follow this activity in successful countries, or successful free zones. We had a problem, it was recorded, that free zones, acting under the old Free Zones Act, did not make the right use of their opportunities and their potentials. Why? They did not properly provide the possibility and encouraged the financial interest. No one in the world, not even here, of course, is going to finance something that doesn't have a certain profit. That's a perfectly clear logic. Of course, the state is now in certain cases, such as this case, to encourage certain activity and then the citizens have a certain benefit in conjectures, wages, etc., not to repeat those flossules that are already well known. Already by amending the VAT Act relating to the exemption from payment, i.e. the zero VAT rate for export operations in the zone, which I also insisted on, which is very reasonable and which the Ministry of Finance adopted and put in the proposal for a VAT law a year and a half ago, a zero rate was introduced within the framework of the free zone, when it comes to export activities. It opened up the possibility and it's already seen interest in the last year and a few days of potential finance, because if you have a tax waiver of 18%, it's very important for anyone who wants to invest, because it's somewhere okay, sometimes more, sometimes less, but it's in the profit range he's making in that work he's doing. Of course, that shouldn't be the end. I hope so, which is in the second position of Article 26. Proposal for a law given that users of the zone, as well as a zone management company, may have tax reliefs in accordance with the regulations. Of course, it's very important and very precise here. When it comes to corporate income tax, property tax and citizen income tax, it has been put in place. It would be contrary to the spirit and the principle of writing the law that we have directly determined that the user or the company operating the zone will have, until we see these basic laws, when their changes are in order, as far as it will be, whether it will be, but it is certainly an instance, it is seen in the proposal for this law, that the idea of tax incentives is evident. In addition to VAT, the possibility is left and other fiscal commitments are expected to be released, as well as how it should interfere more. I'm sure that's what it's going to be, but it's already seen based on interest in the last few months of potential investors, motivation, engine for further investment and launch, primarily production, but also other activities and zones.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28819	Thank you, Mr. Jaksic, especially thank you for opening my eyes, so I never invest any more money where I don't expect profits. What you've been looking for before for Pirot, so what's given, that rule no longer applies. Don't be mad about the joke, Mr. Yaksic? On Article 21, MP Zoran Krasic was submitted to the government and the Finance Committee did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28820	Now I understand that you're out of G17 plus, they were opening your eyes there on the value of capital, I didn't think of anything else, just a little bit of work. Our version of Article 21 and Article 22 edits something that could be said: import and temporary imports. So that you don't convince what's very well written, I'll read it. Article 21 "Foreign goods placed on the territory of Serbia outside the zone are subject to regulations governing external trade." This is about the regime of external trade. Article 2 - "Foreign goods, within the meaning of this law, are considered goods that are wholly produced abroad, as well as goods whose value in the manufacturing process in the zone has increased to 49%. The value of goods which is increased in the zone by sorting, measuring, marking, packaging, egalizing, assembly, separation, pattern line, etc. shall not be considered to increase the value within the meaning of Article 2(2). The provisions of Article 1 shall not apply to industrial waste and by-products produced in zones which do not have commercial value. "I think there is something similar in the government's proposal, but I think this second view of the percentage of the increase in the government's proposal points to customs regulations, but even though it points to customs regulations, logic is exactly the same. It's not a matter of whether we put what's in the customs code or what the government points to customs regulations. I would take the opportunity to comment and Article 22, since I promised that the SRS, we respect the working hours of the National Assembly from 10 to 18 hours, so I count that by 18.15 hours we will finish, and in half an hour, the extraordinary status conference of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, which can only be monitored via the Internet, since B92 does not want, loves Milosevic, and does not like Seselj, according to B92. Article 22 says "The user of the zone can temporarily take goods out of the zone to another part of Serbia's territory and bring goods into the zone from another part of Serbia's territory for questioning, arrest, repair and marketing presentation. The exportation, i.e. the introduction of goods referred to in Article 1, at the request of the users of the zone, shall be approved by the competent customs office, the solution to be taken under the reduced procedure." This is all stereotyped, standard, valid in all zones, foreseen even by our customs regulations. Because of the completeness of the Free Zone Act, there is room for this to be incorporated into one law. Article 3 "The solution sets a deadline in which the user of the zone is obliged to return the goods, which cannot be longer than one year from the day of the solution." Something similar to that applied to temporary imports and temporary exports. The last view: "The user of the zone can temporarily export goods from the zone to another part of Serbia's territory, i.e. to enter goods into the zone from another part of Serbia's territory, for processing (processing, processing and processing), as well as for installation, in the manner and under conditions prescribed for temporary import, or export of goods. "These are standard provisions, they were also present in the previous law, in some variant they are also in the Government's proposal. Now I can't go to a precise quote. Maybe this formulation of ours is a little more precise, but by some system that we wanted to propose a law of the government on free zones in the form of amendments we oppose our concept. I think it fits, it's acceptable. Probably, if our concept is adopted in principle, then this must be going by, because this is nothing new, it's not some new hole in the board. It's probably 70-80 years in the world, so why shouldn't it continue, because that's the benefits and benefits that need to be formed, set free zones, and that's the benefit that gives that extratorious meaning. It's, like, a procedure that guarantees that there won't be a sort of mix of goods and services, that someone doesn't know if it's done on this side of the gate or on this side of the other side, that it's another regime. As you can see, in all these business matters of activity, from the point of view of entering and leaving the main gate, the customs office is the main authority, almost the only state authority. And that's why it's very important that the customs office in the free zone does the job in accordance with the law, and I think that maybe we had the most problems there and that probably some customs regulations, sublegal acts relating to customs procedures should go to a certain variable of these people, the replacement customs officers who do so, because when the area is working for several years, when one of the same people is going into some kind of relationship, and honesty, morality, you know, can't regulate themselves by law, it's proven by everyday behavior. So with us, there are opportunities to show that these two goods are morals and honesty, at a low price, and there are many who fall. That's probably why a special Staff Regulations should apply, because they're free of good law, free of good investment, free of all this if whoever's on the ramp on behalf of the state, which is a customs officer, folds the tab, and says, "What do I care what they say in the Assembly, what they bring in, I'm the boss here, I'm the sheriff of the parade?" We have that in practice, we have to admit, but the customs authorities need to exercise proper control. Of course, right now, I'm not going to repeat what I mentioned about that catholic sale this morning. I have to tell you, so they don't get me wrong, and that's how my family bought some goods. But I was just surprised when I saw a report from the competent state authority that it was all illegal, so at one point it came to me wrong. Imagine, I'm funding some criminal from Varazdin over the address of the Zrenjanin road here across from the Danube. Well, when you managed to lead me astray, then I can assume that other citizens in the Republic of Serbia -- 60.8m euros were in some illegal traffic. As long as the state is denied on the basis of value added tax, I call on the competent state authorities to do so. Here, Mr. Markovic, since I know that you are keeping all these questions in order, accept, in that sense, that I have asked Minister Jocic first of all – what the competent authority for the fight against organised crime has taken after numerous reports by the other competent state authorities in which illegalities have been found. I have reason to believe that there's an organized group behind it and that it's a crime of greater proportions. At the same time, Mr. Markovic, to remind you, I've probably been on the phone for the past ten days while some have attacked me, and I see today everyone's been defending me since this morning as they started reporting, repeatedly asking questions from this pay phone. I don't know, the answers are probably getting ready, although I wouldn't be surprised if my questions were ignored, because I'm probably well informed and I know how to ask the right question.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28821	Thank you. The same amendment will include MP Momir Markovic. Just to let you know everything that has been highlighted as a parliamentary question, and not as an address to the minister – I want to ask the minister: everything has been forwarded, and among other things, I have signed several formulations that have been drawn from the stenograms as your question, Mr Krasic, and I am glad that, in the dictionary of the past, he opened his eyes to you and this report from customs. Can you see that's helping? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28822	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have here two absolutely special concepts of the law. One proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and another proposed by the SRS through the amendments. This second, i.e. the first bill proposed by the SRS, because this should be the second law, is far better, far more applicable and opens wide doors and foreign capital and domestic capital to invest in free customs zones. It is up to you ladies and gentlemen to adopt amendments from the first to the last proposed by the SRS to really pass one applicable law, one law from which both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia will benefit. However, before I move on to the defense of the amendments, I have to tell you one of my impressions from earlier. I went to congratulate the anniversary of a successful patriotic radio station and when I came back a large group of police standing here between the National Assembly and the Presidency, Alibaba Cave, and I thought – thank God the legal state worked, here, came to arrest this thief across the street. And no public prosecutor came to examine what he was looking for in Knin between the anniversary of Storm and the anniversary of Flash, between two events in which many Serbs were headless, and more than 220,000 were expelled from the hearth, where 30,000 houses were burned. Or maybe they came to see what kind of gift he got from Stipe Mesic, if he had a chess shop on it. It seems they were welcoming someone, they weren't arresting anyone because I hope that as MPs they would have already informed us that Boris Tadic or at least this director, the so-called director of the so-called National and So-called Office, had been arrested by the five million euros he stole in a year. Either they'd come to let us know that they finally found those 27m euros or they'd come to let us know how much Bogdanovic stole money just on Nemanja's street. I suppose the MPs would come first to inform. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, organized crime gathered in the yellow company of hara, robbery, kidnapping, and the Serbian government is doing absolutely nothing about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not surprised then by what's supposed to be the minister of the military to bring the bad guys to the scene. Fifteen days ago, the same aircraft that flew and planted bombs and killed all over Serbia and which our PSC, unfortunately, couldn't reach because they went 10,000 meters. Now that this same Alibaba has destroyed 2,500 missiles of an arrow 2M, now they can go down below, we won't be able to do anything to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28823	Is there anyone else who wants to go by article 21. No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28824	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to Article 22, which reads: "The user of the zone can temporarily take goods out of the zone to another part of Serbia's territory and bring goods into the zone from another part of Serbia's territory for questioning, attestation, repair and marketing presentation. The exportation, i.e. the introduction of goods referred to in Article 1, at the request of the users of the zone, shall be approved by the competent customs office, the solution to be taken under the reduced procedure." So we allow those who work in that free customs zone to temporarily export or temporarily import goods into the customs zone without customs burdens. In the second point, we say that customs must carry out a list of goods in a shortened procedure, given that it can be done at that time in a multimillion-dollar business and is valuable every day. The customs office must then, under a shortened procedure, bring a solution to the list of goods to be exported, which is to be entered into the free customs zone. The solution shall determine the time limit within which the user of the area is bound to return the goods if it is an adhesion, if any, if any work or representation cannot be completed for more than one year. We do not allow those who are in the free customs zone to import goods indefinitely, to get these goods out of the customs zone one way or another and to go to the market, but strictly, the maximum period is one year. The exportation, i.e. the introduction of goods, shall determine the time limit within which the user of the zone is obliged to return goods which may not be longer than one year from the date of the decision being made. Article 3 "The user of the zone can temporarily export goods from the zone to another part of Serbia's territory, i.e. to enter goods from another part of Serbia's territory for processing (processing, processing and processing), as well as for installation, in ways prescribed for temporary import or export of goods." I think the amendment is so clear that the member who regulates this amendment is so clear that he literally doesn't need an explanation anymore. I believe that all MPs and ruling parties, the ruling coalitions and opposition parties should push the green button in the day to vote and adopt this amendment. And you, Mr. Sredoje, if you've got something, go ahead for the pay phone. Otherwise you don't go out for a pay phone, I see you more at the bar than at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28825	Everyone drinks coffee wherever they want. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jojic. It was a question of whether to read again. The answer is that all amendments with texts have been distributed to the MPs and there is no need to read, it is not a matter of discarding.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, SRS MP Mr Momir Makrovic, detailed the amendment that he submitted to a member of Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic in front of the SRS. Article 22 provides that the user is to make it possible to carry out the customs supervision and control measures and to keep the prescribed records of the goods imported, or imported into the zone, exports, or amounts from the zone and benefits in the zone. It's a little clumsy, as a definition. However, when it comes to this norm, it has to be contained in criminal provisions, in Articles 34 and 35, there is not a single word about what will happen if someone brings in and out of the customs zone, or out of the free zone, does not return the goods. What about the goods? Has the goods been smuggled, sold, and have there been any sanctions against the free zone bringing goods out of the free zone and trading on a large scale and thus making profits without taking certain legal measures against them? So, in Article 22, it is normable, but it is more precise, more logical, more legal-technically orderly as provided for in the SRS amendment to Article 22. I therefore suggest that it was necessary to provide for sanctions for one who did not return the goods to a free zone, especially if there was insufficient control, especially in the case of goods whose traffic is prohibited from being found in both the customs zone and the free zone. Examples work, drugs and weapons. This law does not provide for sufficient control and supervision, not only of customs, but also of other state authorities, as it can turn the free zone into free trade in arms and drugs and other goods prohibited by law. Earlier, the MP mentioned that today will be the status conference for the president of the SRS, it has already begun, in The Hague. Few, ladies and gentlemen, speak these days by officials in this country as it was possible that Naser Oric, who was commander of the 28th Division, in the area of Bratunac of Zepa, killed with mujahidins about 3,500 Serbs. He got a ticket like he'd got someone if he stole one bike, got a ticket like he hit someone or somebody. You see, Muslims did not give evidence, nor did they trade evidence of film recordings and material evidence of the crimes committed by Naser Oric with his criminals. And in Serbia, who would sooner come to evidence or written or any other material evidence, that many would sell it to Karli del Ponte or other Hague criminals, who are judging in this self-called Hague court, competed against the military summit, political summit and patriotism and patriotism of Serbia to provide evidence to our testified enemies. It turned into a free zone selling evidence. You see, Muslims did not give evidence to convict a criminal, and our organs had countless evidence of the crimes that Naser Oric committed. Our officials are going to kneel and greet in Srebrenica those who committed the greatest war crimes against Serbs. Reciprocally, we didn't have cases like that. It is unfortunate that the UN tribunal has turned into a court against Serbs, a court that judges only Serbs, a court that accuses Professor Vojislav Seselj of a verbal delict. It's the fourth year he's being held in that box without any material evidence that he's done anything. He's being charged with commanding responsibility. Come on, find some minister here, except for the military, who might and should answer for the commanding responsibility. He didn't command any army, no division, no brigade, no battalion. He's being charged with personal responsibility. He personally did not commit any crime, there is no evidence, and they accuse Vojislav Seselj of being objectively responsible. He wasn't the president of the state, he wasn't a military minister, he wasn't under command of any military formation. You see how it is tried by Serbian patriots, you see the punishments being imposed in the UN tribunal of Serbs, and here, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as that court has imposed punishment on Naser Oric for two years as if he had stolen a bicycle or had stolen three chickens and received such punishment. You see, we Serbian radicals are telling the current government to turn to Serbia, to build its own state, to build their country's defence systems, to build an army, to reform it, so much that it can have an army that can defend the state from the external enemy, and to prevent them from participating on the inside. Our army has indeed fallen to the lowest branches. You've seen who they've chosen as military minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the army have honorable and honest generals, officers who have completed several academys, but cannot come to command our army. Our army is material, there are no weapons in our army today, I'll say that we have reserves, we even keep foreign exchanges abroad, but you see we don't have the opportunity to buy planes, we don't have the opportunity to modernise the military, to strengthen it, that the Shipari and the outside enemy tomorrow don't kidnap Kosovo, that we can preserve our territory, our integrity, and the Constitution obliges all state authorities to work that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28827	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Now I'm just sorry you weren't able to be there to vote for the establishment of that state. It was June 5th here at 13.55 p.m. Anyone else want to talk about article 22? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28828	Mr Markovic, we will have Serbia's independent state following the adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact that we do not have it yet, you are one of the most responsible people and your colleague conditionally said, this thief across from Boris Tadic who, nine months ago, shook your proposal for a constitution, or your DS, and since you did not listen to Mr Tomislav Nikolic's appeal to work in the Subcommittee and to continue from article 81 of the text of the government of the Republic of Serbia to incorporate all our objections, all of this happened. Let's see how long that story lasts and your statements and statements by Kostunica, Tadic, and they're about to pass a new constitution, but you've been playing too long with the patience of all citizens. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is as a wise man, a responsible statesman, I am confident, future prime minister of the Serbian government, ready to wait for the interests of the people and the state, although we do not participate in the work of the other committees, he has also told you and the Serbian public that he will participate in the creation of the Constitution, but that story cannot last indefinitely. It is not right, then, that fellow Jojic, who is indeed and with a single dose of emotion in this situation as the status conference is being held to the president of the SRS, against whom the indictment was written four years ago and is attributed to some alleged crimes which he did not commit for a verbal delinquent and which is one of the others serving in the anti-Serb case now at the end of this brilliant exhibition and as a member of the defence team of Dr. Seselj and the former federal minister, are giving such criticism in the sense that it took him and that day to be in so many hours. Where we're going to be and when we're going to be and what we're going to vote on, it's only the SRS, its parliamentary club, its leadership and the people who elected us to these functions. I would never use this time when I should be talking about this amendment that I submitted to Article 23 if you had not had such a malignant reaction to the presentation of counterpart Peter Jojic. As far as amendments to Article 23 are concerned, and he was right, of course, we have neither the foreign minister nor the defence minister, it is nowhere in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which you are the chairman of the 250-seat National Assembly. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is really necessary to integrate itself into this law, because unlike these other members where you might have thought the SRS would actually want the same thing, and that's not true, because it's fundamentally different, our law in some technical matters, yes, it matches attitudes, but when it comes to the way of determining a zone, giving consent to work, and first of all, this administration that exists later on, and not with us. We thought it was because of the SRS' intention to show you through all these examples so far that the main intensity should be production, not foreign trade. We have made a proposal, i.e. I have proposed this amendment, which states that - the belief that goods are produced in the zone of issue of a customs authority which controls the zone, and for goods produced in the zone, it will be issued to ensure that they are produced in Serbia, if the value of the goods exported is the participation of raw materials and other reproductive material, invested labour and other costs of production originating in Serbia, at least 51% of the value of the goods exported. So far, and especially one she has done, I would not really without the consent of that lady to mention her name and last name, and to abuse, she has indeed dealt with and formed a laboratory on the business of free zones in Serbia, i.e. in the area of the former state, for 20 and 30 years. The fact is that nothing has changed since the first free zones were established, because the state is not in all previous laws (and apparently because you do not accept the amendment of the SRS, it will not be under this law) affecting the acceleration of production. That is why certain free zones, or their status, were taken away, and that was as an excuse and the reason for some municipalities, it was a place to store or trade, and all the other countries in the world, even some examples you may never have thought about. Maybe I wouldn't have, if I hadn't been interested, and I didn't really have this problem of a regulated market economy in free zones in Serbia, maybe I wouldn't have gotten that kind of data, but I've worked hard and hard on it all these days, especially since the law came into congregation procedure, and I've come up with fascinating data when it comes to protecting goods of original origin, therefore, domestic origin, in certain countries that have been completely economically destroyed and destroyed like Vietnam. You know that the American aggression in Vietnam was over long ago in 1973 and that all the information that comes to us through our media in that report under various conditions and what's happening in the world, about this country is squirm and almost nothing, and you can think about it, and that everyone's picture is especially from those American Hollywood propaganda that were strong and brave American soldiers, which was certainly not true, and that they fought for their interests, and right after the war ended, with cooperation with many countries around the world, particularly Asian, stood on their feet through the formation of free zones. Today, that is, from 2005, because they did something in time that we did not, therefore, pass years in vain, from 2000 to today, it could have been discussed several times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the law would be before the MPs. No one could think about it during unremembered economic sanctions, when production was much greater in certain segments than today, we have no war, nor do we have an aggression of the Western military alliance, or NATO pact, the bombing of our country, or our economic facilities. Just remember that the flag in Kragujevac was almost leveled with the ground. In these conditions, when you say you want to join the EU, and for all international economic integration you are, you have no information that you can raise yourself to, and no law is required before this law, and that is the law on direct foreign investment. Why was it necessary for Vietnamese and those who in other parts of the world or in some countries of the region to successfully operate under a free zone system to pass such a law? To protect both domestic production and attract foreign investors to invest in new programmes and employ their workforce. Today's data, this is what I came up with, that because of these natural and human potentials that our Serbia has and that this morning, only on the case of these raspberries from the village of Katici and all the surrounding villages of the municipality of Ivanica, in which I spent Friday afternoon, said that Serbia had fallen to the lowest possible branches when it came to the raspberries that we were once the first in Europe. Today we are in the fourth, fifth, or who knows which position because of the country's carelessness because of the non-protected producer of raspberries, but it is therefore important that everything produced in the free zone, and has participation as defined by this article, which I proposed in the law, has the mark that it was produced in Serbia. Every country's dream, I guess we belong to a medium-developed country, and we have potential and how to be advanced in a technological sense and each other to place their products on another secure market. We didn't take our chance from 1998 to today. It's even more used during the bombing and on the eve of the bombing when it comes to a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation than it is today. Foreign trade, if I'm not mistaken right now, our country is the biggest with Italy, and Russia is very small. We can't think about having such free zones and doing business like free zones less or bigger in China, but we can think about the fact that they are and how interested they are in our products. That this exchange on an annual basis could be a few billion dollars. Nearly in our country were representatives of China's Chamber of Commerce who were interested in our vegetables and fruits, wine and all other food products that could still be produced quality here, or expressed their willingness to make such an agreement and agreement with our country for exporting these products that they liked for both their quality and their price and everything in our country. Therefore, such countries as Vietnam, which passed the law more than 10 years ago, or almost 15 years ago on foreign direct investment, which was due before or immediately after the adoption of this law, made a big expansion in the case of foreign capital entry and that level of investment was, that is, the role of foreign capital over 3,000 contracts in 10 years. Now this table view, this dynamic flows into the economic branches of the country, just because they opened up, but not by completely poisoning their production and not by protecting what is theirs, on the contrary, they have potentiald, they have insisted that what is theirs and what is a valuable product that they have and their tradition must be preserved after and after. When you look at how this goes from agriculture and forestry to hotels, through finance, banking, and everything that treats their economy, you see that these are incredible figures and that they're hundreds of billions of dollars. What are these countries that invest from all over the world? It's basically business to respect their laws. It is a free entry of that capital, but everything that is needed by the state of the sea in which they operate, i.e. in a specific case Vietnam must be paid, and the amount of all that profit is free, which no one defends them and that we would not defend anyone who is willing to come and operate under our laws here in the country. What is our development chance of not thinking today from this debate that these are only free zones, I can't tell you right now, probably Mr. Krasic, as a major expert on this area, the barata of this data, because in his profession he's been dealing with customs zones and free trade zones for years, what is our projection in the future, how much we could employ people. Let it be as successful as the Hungarians did, and with the data from last year, 26,000 people hired in free zones, and it's a great success. It can be more, it can be less, but what is clear from all statistical images, unlike Vietnam or Singapore, or from some other countries or Hungary in our country, was a free zone only on the principle of foreign trade, and the total amount, i.e. participation in the entire foreign trade exchange of Serbia by business of free zones where Novi Sad, until this status was taken away, recorded by the highest results, 90%, paSabotica, then much less all others and those who had previously, but production almost nothing. Therefore, by making it easier for those companies like the Turks did, they brought 500 foreign companies to produce in their country, but also by helping our production in the free zone, free trade, free business and through protection and through the acceptance of this amendment, we can hope for something. This is how agony continues for both the Serbian economy and the working citizens. There's a lot of them. Young people wait for work from all professions, from all structures of education, but there is no one to employ them and there is no developmental chance for them, unless something urgent is changed and some concrete projects that can show some results for a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28829	I'm obliged to give an explanation. According to Articles 225 and 226, I gave an explanation to the MP whom I greatly respect, Mr Jojic, and I am, of course, emotional, but I gave him an explanation for the work that is necessary to carry out the work of the MP, in no way commenting, especially part, and I think it is very incorrect. I've highly respected all the people I've known for more than 20 years, whose history I've known, and in no way from this place, nor have I commented on the statements whether they're being praised, whether they're being found, but I'm only giving those notices that are necessary. In that sense, I would certainly not react to the emotional exposure of the first part, but I simply made one clarification in relation to the conclusion of the debate. There is no reason for a third person to interpret the relationship between the MPs and the president of the National Assembly. I will certainly and in future whenever there is a need to share information with Mr Jojic, at no time entering the need for MPs to present their beliefs or to provide information concerning their party, but it is my duty to take care of everyone, not just individual statements or individual parties or individual cities, and I have shown that today. There's no reason to argue with the president of the assembly. In order to consult on this, everyone who does not understand it, I am giving a break of up to 18.1 and then the first one will have Ms. Jovanovic's word in the Rules of Procedure, as is the obligation. [[After break – 18.25.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I spoke to Mr. Jojic and there is no misunderstanding between the comments we made to each other. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28831	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the MPs who are in the O.R., the three of you and the ministry gentleman, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure because National Assembly President Predrag Markovic severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The break he gave to the public, and probably astounded, followed by a recent comment by the president of the assembly, was completely unnecessary, perhaps, Mr. Markovic, to drink coffee, to light a cigarette. You haven't spoken to your colleague, Petar Jojic, and what you've been talking about is your business, but I am reporting because you are commenting on what I said, and warning you that you are not misinformed when it comes to the position of the SRS. Whether we are present or not when something is voiced, especially about what happened on June 5th when a declaration was voted upon after a referendum in Montenegro and the alleged independence of the Republic of Serbia, I have told you only the truth and I will repeat it to you both myself and every MP of the SRS 100, a thousand or how many times you want it to be clear to you. So, never remind us later, I am not some third person, as you said, that there is no need for a third person to discuss it, but an MP with a name and a last name that is much longer in the National Assembly than you have since you came to the seat of the chairman or when you were elected as a MP. Unlike you, I have my own parliamentary group, which is the strongest in Serbia, the strongest political party, and on the other hand, what you said is that I'm flaunting the ignorance, it's simply not true. I have informed the public about the position of a party that is perfectly correct and only acceptable to the entire nation, and I could say to you that you are constantly deluding yourself with ignorance from various areas and when you talk about the late football players, when you have various comments. I'll remind you of the Hatunic case, then I can ask you what you're running for, for the new Serbian team's selector, since he's left by now or I'll ask you to run for something else when you have all sorts of other comments. It all happened today when I was at a gathering where several Serbian patriots gathered. A prominent radio today had its anniversary, and one of the people, a well-known Serbian intellectual, told me, in addition to the admiration for what we do as SRS MPs, defending the people from such bad laws, his biggest observation is that you, in your comments and above all, the faces and gestures you make during your presidency of the National Assembly, is that ugly painting with the absence of a sufficient majority of MPs, i.e. by abolishing the quorum, again on your initiative and the humiliation of this highest legislative body. If you try and continue later, which is your right and your business ability, to comment in the same way on everything I say from the assembly speaker for the sake of the truth and on what is the position of the party I belong to, there is no problem, I have time at my disposal, you have a choice and what our people would say to both of you about who the hoodlums are.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28832	You asked for a breach of the rules of procedure to be voted upon? Yeah. Then I'm obliged to give a notice. Of course I haven't talked in half an hour. I only talked to Mr. Jojic for half a minute, and I informed him at the beginning of the sequel, but I have to respect what was said. It was said that the continuation would be at 6:15 p.m. and that is why the extension is at 6:15 p.m., not after the talks are over. When it comes to my obligation to give notice, I am still behind that obligation to give notice as necessary. Are you satisfied or remain in need of a vote? The assembly will declare itself in voting day. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 24. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28833	Given the enormous effort that we have made to explain to each member of the Law on Free Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am taking the opportunity to explain to each of our amendments in this time that is scheduled for one amendment. It is from Articles 24 to one of the amendments under number 39a, and there are more of them in the same number, given some of the business provisions. What do we propose in our version of Article 24? I'll read it soon. "The export of goods produced in the zone considered as domestic goods within the meaning of this law shall be subject to provisions governing value added tax." I think the provision is clear, it's not controversial, it's acceptable. Article 25. "I must say that this part of the addition and deviation from stereotype solutions is not paid by customs and other import duties." The provision is known in practice. However, we have inserted this – according to quality and quantity according to investment technical documentation, just for the sake of caution that someone does not realize that they can import construction material from abroad without paying customs, etc., that there is still some control, because you know who the snake itself is bit by he and the lizard are afraid of. Article 26. "The slave that is placed on the market in Serbia is subject to the obligation to pay customs and other duties. The person who puts goods listed in Article 1 on the Serbian market on the market is obliged to report goods and jobs to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the customs procedure." The standard provision, it may be slightly modified in terms of customs regulations, but that modification only makes the provision more precise, and does not question the conflict of two laws. Article 27. "The obligation to pay customs duties and other import duties for goods referred to in Article 26(1) of this law arises on the day the goods moved from zone to market in Serbia. The amount of customs duties and other import duties on goods referred to in Article 1 shall be determined according to the condition of the goods and by the regulations applicable on the date of submission of the customs declaration. The customs base for goods referred to in Article 1(1) shall constitute the value of goods imported from abroad in the zone." It's a classic provision again, familiar. It used to be in the law on free customs zones, but a good part of this area is regulated by customs law and this kind of takeover is embezzlement in the bill, it doesn't hurt, it just precision and guesses. Article 28. "The supervision of the work of the company and the user of the zone is carried out by state authorities within their competences in co-operation with the competent customs authorities. The user of the zone is obliged to make it possible to carry out the customs surveillance measures and keep the prescribed records of the goods being imported, or imported into the zone, exports, or derived from the zone and benefit in the zone." Article 1 refers to supervision by the competent authorities and, in this respect, is more precise than the existing law, since it is given primate to customs services, or customs offices, but does not exclude the possibility of other inspection bodies, and there is a need for other inspection bodies such as labour inspection in relation to minimum technical conditions, labour protection, sanitary inspection and other inspection bodies. Article 29. "The government prescribes customs surveillance measures in the zone. The Ministry of Finance Affairs shall adopt a regulation drawing closer to the way in which the records referred to in Article 28 of this Act are kept. Users are obliged to run accounting for operations in the zone or separate accounting for part of the business in the zone. At the request of customs, users are obliged to supply data on their business." A provision known earlier, but I'd say it's a little bit built up with some attitudes about some laws that have been passed in the meantime, regarding monitoring, keeping records, bookkeeping and everything that's been mentioned here. Article 30. "All persons entering or exiting the zone are subject to regulations governing the crossing of the customs line." A familiar provision. Article 31 "The payment and charging in the zone between the users of the zone, between the users of the zone and the society and in the business with abroad is free and is carried out in an agreed manner and within the agreed deadlines." The form of payment traffic is regulated by this member, it does not go into those details, if I may say, of a technical nature in payment traffic, but it is potential that payment traffic is free, in terms of law, not absolutely free at anarchy level. Article 32. "Investment of capital in the area of the zone, transfer of profits and retransfer roles are free." A standard provision that best paints that benefit that exists for operating in the zone, according to all users who perform their work there. Among other things, it's one of the reasons why economic operators want to be users of a particular zone. Article 33. "The user of the zone and society can keep cash realised by operating in the zone at the bank in the zone or other banks and can freely dispose of them. Foreign exchange operations in the zone set out in this law shall be subject to the rules governing foreign exchange operations." In close connection with this member, there is also the next one to specify what is being raised as a question after what I have read. Article 34. "In the zone, banks can be established and operated in accordance with the regulations on banks. In the zone, insurance operations can be carried out in accordance with the insurance regulations." Article 35. "Taken credit abroad for business in the zone, i.e. creating conditions for operating in the zone, as well as giving loans to domestic and foreign legal persons operating in the zone is free." So they're not subject to any restrictions. First of all, there are restrictions that are sometimes present when it comes to foreign credit transactions. This is where the freedoms come in. Article 36. "The company is obliged to submit a report to the finance ministry on the business in the zone by the end of March of the current year for the previous year. The form and contents of the report referred to in Article 1 shall be prescribed by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. Once a year, the finance ministry provides the government with a report on the operations of all zones in Serbia." Something similar exists in the draft law of the government on free zones. Article 37 "If, during the operation of the zone, it is established that, in three consecutive years, no annual exports to abroad are made in accordance with Article 14 of this Law, that the objectives envisaged by the economic justification for the establishment of the zone are not achieved, that the company and the users of the zone commit infringements prescribed by customs regulations, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, may adopt an act to suspend the validity of the agreement for the establishment of the zone. In the case referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the area shall cease operating no later than one year from the date of adoption of the act on the termination of the validity of the consent for the establishment of the zone. "This is the key member which means that, by the logic of things, after three years, if it is built for two years, then three years of doing business, an economic justification for the establishment of the zone is reconsidered. If the real zone does not realise these planned results, then it does not deserve the benefits that this law makes. When the situation in paragraph 2 occurs, it is said that within a year, the work stops, and this "stops work" should be considered a factical act of termination, not legal. Article 38. "The company, i.e. the user of the zone, is obliged to return to abroad or surrender to the customs office for free circulation within 90 days following the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 37(2) of this Act." He treats himself like a foreign slave crossing the customs line. "The goods referred to in Article 1 shall be paid on the goods referred to in Article 1 for customs and other customs duties according to the condition of the goods and by the regulations applicable on the day of the application of the customs declaration, except for equipment which has been imported into the zone for the purpose of carrying out the work in the zone for a period of at least three years prior to the end of the operation of the zone. "As you can see, the deadlines are in line with this article with the previous member. "The provision of Article 2 does not exclude the application of other rules on the basis of which the right to exempt from customs duties and other import duties is exercised. "Article 39. "The user of the zone retains the right to property on things, rights and money he imported, or entered into the zone and has the right to continue working in accordance with the regulations applicable to business in the territory of Serbia outside the zone in the event of an end of the operation of the zone. "This is the situation with these zones that have lost that status since January 1st. So they are now without benefits prescribed by the Free Zone Act and 100% under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the rules applicable to the internal market. Article 39a, which is added to Article 39, I say, because of the business provisions, multiple times this 39a will appear. Those are criminal provisions. "The fine of between 10,000 and 1,000 dinars will punish society for violations: 1) if it allows for the performance of activities in a zone that threatens the environment... ; 2) if it does not adopt or does not publish an act referred to in Article 18.", these are the conditions, tariffs, etc. which should be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. 3) "if he does not deliver a business report in the zone". You know that there are those two reports – those actions under article 1 will be punished for the offence by a responsible person in a company with a fine of 500 to 50,000 dinars." Penalties are in line with the regulations on violations. Now again, Article 39a, which, by some logic of things, should be Article 39b: "The fine between 10,000 and 1,000 thousand will be fined for the violation of the user of the zone as a legal person: 1) if it performs action in a zone that threatens the environment... ; 2) if he does not keep the prescribed records." In Article 28, there is a prescribed record of goods located in the zone, regardless of how they were found in that zone, whether they are imported or exported, processed, etc. "If he doesn't run a bookkeeping business in the zone." This fits completely with the law that was passed a month ago in the Assembly, as far as accounting is concerned. 4) "if it does not provide data on its business in the zone. The action referred to in Article 1 shall be punished for the offence and the responsible person of the user of the zone with a fine of 500 to 50,000 dinars. The action referred to in Article 1 will be punished for the offence by the user of the zone with a fine of 500 to 50,000 dinars." The next member we proposed would be Article 39v. "Zonas established until the day of entry into force of this law have the right to continue their work in accordance with this law, with companies obliged to bring the organisation and business of the zone into line with the provisions of this law within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law and report to the finance ministry. "I have to say, this is the usual form of transitional and final provisions, when a new law is passed, but I have to potentiate this with the law on free zones. The Foreign Investment Act always guarantees the invariability of the conditions under which the establishment, entry into the zone, or the conditions under which a foreign investment occurred. These deadlines for alignment are more normative-legal than essential nature. Next article: "On the day of entry into force of this law, the Free Zone Act ceases to apply." The last member: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of the day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Let me take another minute. Mr. President, we wouldn't explain all these amendments below, because we believe that from 10 a.m. to 18:30 p.m., we have made enough arguments both for present MPs and for those who are justly absent, both for those who follow the transmission, as you said there is this variant, that they are all faithful by television and follow, because of some other obligations. So we're sure our concept of this law is better quality, simpler to apply. Many provisions indicate the inapplicability of conditions for existing zones, of course for those that survived after January 1st and what happened. Many of the provisions of the proposed law, the Government's proposal, I must say, are not clear to us, in particular, the restructuring provisions in the part of the Law proposal relating to the application to determine the area of the zone. I mean, it's really about grandmothers and frogs. The area of the zone is determined by those who set up the zone, and this becomes one of the issues discussed by the government when adopting agreement on the establishment of the zone. In order to mix the state in terms of security, i.e. giving and refusing to give consent, it is important to work, not territory. That's the central difference between your concept and our concept. For you, the question of the zone is a catastrian problem, and the bottom line is that there is an exclusive right to organise activities in one market that is externally, not 100% but in a significant percentage, where there is quite a freedom in terms of avoiding internal market obligations, but this avoidance is also controlled because it is happening in a limited, fenced, visiblely marked area in which inspection bodies are present, and I would say, above all, to the authorities that protect the domestic market from illegal traffic of goods from abroad. I think that I am absolutely sure that with sufficient arguments we have backed our bill and I call on all MPs to bear in mind this amendment when they declare. Here, I call on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sort out all amendments to the SRS, they will get one new bill of law. Let him compare it to the proposal submitted by the government. I am absolutely sure that it will be noticed, that everyone will determine that our text is more incomparably quality, more precise, clearer, and when you have one such law, then it is easier to apply it. It is easier to control and I claim that this law, our law, gives more hope to all potential investors and those who are thinking about establishing a zone or doing business in one of the free zones in the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28834	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Since Mr Krasic announced that he would speak and spoke individually about all the amendments, it has been a long time. You following the same amendment, Mr. Jaksic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28835	Dear colleagues, it is obvious to me personally that it is very pleased that, unequivocally by the MPs of this House, the importance of this law has been expressed and noted, the possibility of Serbia forming and inducing free zones in accordance with this law, enables investment in free zones, all exclusively, without any demagogy, for the benefit of citizens, the development of the economy and the development of this country. Regardless of the certain differences that exist, which occurred first and foremost in the debate on amendments, I am almost under the impression that, more than any other law we have ever had in this session, it would be quite logical and normal for all MPs to vote (any group) for this law, which will make these things that I have just spoken about and that most of the MPs here have repeated, that they will be put into life and that they will be able to improve first of all the economy, and that means all the citizens of this country. In the end, I only regret that the amendments to the opposition were not in classical amendment form. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the members of the laws that were given in the Bill and what could have been done in that case that some of the amendments were actually included in the law, that this was done. Technically, it may have turned out like this right now, but I really think with this new law that's not new, but it does essentially define a much better and more specific thing that we're going to have free zones as a place where Serbia's economy will be able to develop further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-04-0.u28836	Thank you, Mr. Yaksic. I have to do business, no matter what I believe in the words of the MPs who explained it, to read all the amendments. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) `The 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bozidar Koprivica has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Penezic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for your responsible work today. Tomorrow at 10.00 hours is a continuation of the search in details of the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a foreign exchange law. Thank you and good-bye.
