ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25422	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 81 MPs are present in the hall and there are no conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I suggest an hour's break. [[After break – 11,10]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vladimir Milankov and Radic Jokovic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF PLANING AND CONSTRUCTION (sumption in detail) The word has a National MP Branka Bošnjak, a replica from yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25424	Dear Chairman, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of the replica, given that the G17 Plus party was mentioned in the presentation of the last speaker at the end of yesterday's session, not enough to refer to that replica, but simply to explain the views of the party G17 plus, which seem to me to be extremely wrongly interpreted in relation to the law on the agenda today. The G17 Plus party has worked extremely hard and is trying to make its maximum contribution to make this law look better and more practical as possible. I'm pleased that the Ministry's representatives are nodding their heads. That's some confirmation and commendation for everything we've done. Our relationship to this law has gone through several stages. When we entered this congregation, a few of us who do this work, meaning construction and property in the construction process, tried to give our proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction. The moment this law was in the process, we also tried to present to the public our participation in the making of amendments a law that would be applicable and that would encourage as much quality and rapid construction as possible. The number of amendments the G17 Plus party has given to this law may, given that we are part of the coalition, by someone's criteria, be great. But since the Law on Planning and Construction of Matters covers several areas, 17 amendments, as given by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, is not some number of amendments that the opposition could take as a reason for noting that the coalition partner is the G17 Plus party in the government is actually incompatible with the proposed law. Through co-operation with the Ministry, several of us very important amendments have been accepted and have become an integral part of this law. Several amendments that are totally contrary to the views of the G17 Plus party have not been accepted. Some of our amendments to the members we believe have been improved in some other way, through the acceptance of some other amendments, we have withdrawn, but we have therefore left several amendments that are completely different from some of the proposed solutions. In fact, it is two or three different concepts of the Law on Planning and Construction; we have left it behind and we will try to use their explanation here in the Assembly to expose our fellow Members of Parliament to vote for them. Once again, the G17 Plus Party is extremely interested in a few amendments to this law and will support them, but at today's session we will try to explain some of these amendments and, of course, ask fellow Members to consider our proposals and vote in the voting day for our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25425	The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to article 37. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25426	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry of Capital Investment, on behalf of the SPS on Article 37, I have submitted an amendment to the following content: "Article 118 paragraph 6) is amended and reads - keeps a construction diary, provides a book of inspection, necessarily runs a construction book for all investments financed from the budgets of public or state funds, humanitarian, donor and other public sources, and in agreement with the investor and in other cases. "Let me read the explanation: "Amendment is specified point 5) of Article 6 in the existing article 188. The law introduces the responsibility of the responsible performer to keep all necessary documents, i.e. the building log, the book of inspection, and the construction book is mandatory only in cases where the sources of funding are public revenues, while in other cases the construction book can run if required by the investor." Why did I submit this amendment? There are different arrangements for building objects. You can make a contract with a contractor by the system "key in hand", if you finance it in private, it's like buying a space of 1,000 euros per square square in a city or at any location. You should not be interested in detail how all of this works, except those things that directly concern the law when it comes to design security, there is a supervisory authority, etc. So I thought, and so I'm asking to get support for this amendment, that except for those investments that come from public income, from humanitarian funds, from the budget, this other thing can be solved this way. So I think this is a better solution than that offered by the legislator. Also, I use the opportunity to say, since there are no amendments anymore – if the honourable MPs from any party, and let's say from G17, looked at the stenogram of the construction law, which was submitted by Mr Šumarac on behalf of the DOS government, when we analyzed what we were saying about the law, it would be quite clear that the amendments and additions of this law would not be necessary if our amendments and arguments we had offered were then respected. I know who was the creator of that law, who contributed to it. I also do not know, I respect the profession, that there are strong lobbys that have an interest in certain solutions in the law being exactly what they propose to the amendments, or what they are already incorporated into the law. I just want to say it, so someone doesn't think we're not frames to notice it. So, it would make sense for anyone who offers their license to proceed, to add the M2 form to that license, to be able to determine whether he is engaged in a particular firm and under what conditions. Also, please, Mrs. Bosnjak, I very much respect you, do you know that in various tenders photocopies of licenses delivered with tenders are being abused in thousands, that some people have no idea that photocopies of their licenses are being approached with tenders in different places and that, in this way, the harshest possible way, the law is being misused. So I'm not against how this works, but I'm against how this is happening, because it's not enough to control what anybody does. I can list the appropriate examples for that, but it's not a subject here anymore. So, one thing is whether there was a good intention and a good desire. Of course we advocate that the most educated personnel do the most extensive jobs, and when someone designs or builds a house, you have an interest in him doing it in the best possible way, but I draw attention to you that there is room for manipulation about it, and I know that you know that, as everyone else knows. There are no sinners here. One question is how things work in Belgrade or Cacca, and the other is how they operate in Serbia, and unfortunately, I have to say that it is in a large number of situations of improvisation, which causes great damage to the profession and is playing the law in the most harsh way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25427	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25428	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that all MPs have the same attitude when we think about how to regulate this law. Surely the first and most basic criteria are professionalism. We also have to admit that maybe the previous 2003 law, which arranged this matter through the Engineering Chamber, through an institution of licensed engineers, actually stepped towards Europe. I remind you that almost all European countries have their own engineering chambers and all regulated European countries have engineering chambers where members are exclusively licensed engineers. The 2003 law may have been too ambitious and may have overly arranged this matter, unaware of the situation in the interior. I agree both with the exposure and attitudes of my predecessor colleagues and with some amendments that may analyze the matter's conscious situation on the ground and a small number of engineers with inside licenses. In that sense, I think that the previous law of 2003 may have been somewhat unrealistic, that through transitional provisions it was meant to correct the law through reality, but I would also like to point out that the proposed changes, where it was proposed that construction engineers working in certain categories of objects, for facilities of smaller investment values, less investment interventions, could be engineers with two years of college, discrimination against other engineers. Here we have electric and machine engineers, which also in the same category of objects should be able to monitor the performance of works and should not only apply to the category of construction engineers. I plead to be aware that this country must go in the direction of professionalism and the law that we passed in 2003 should not now go backwards, but through certain transitional provisions, through certain instructions under the existing law or possibly within these amendments of the law realistically look at the possibilities. The fact is that the abuse of a license has, but I have to tell you that no one in these three years, as much as I have a license, has asked me to put my license on someone's mind. The abuse of licenses can also be when we determine that engineers with powers, earlier categories before these licenses, people who used to have high school and were able to monitor and sign something as designers, and then there was abuse. Believe that people who are prone to abuse are not only in the category of engineers, so then there were concessions to their powers. We're all thinking exactly the same and we're all going through professionalism, that as many professionals as possible are actually fighting their license to affirm our profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25429	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25430	I take this amendment to Mr. Rajko Baralic as an attempt to regulate something in this article that should essentially prevent the abuse that stems from several previous members of this law, and that is essentially the worst variant. The worst variant of one law is when it is known that five or six previous provisions of the law allow manipulation, abuse, acting, and then giving the sixth member a condition to stop, prevent or eliminate harmful consequences. What Mr Baralic said here, in support of his amendment, above all about public funds and the fact that some virtual reality is created through records and responsible contractors, which is known to everyone, certainly this example deserves special attention and makes this amendment should be supported. But when we hear different attitudes about this bill, then we all have to worry. We all absolutely know that in 2003 a bad law was passed. The story of professionalizing falls into the water, because someone would have to prove to us that those people in high school and high school when they were building this building were extremely unprofessional. They were professionals and, as you can see, this building is extremely good, it's not going down and it's not going down, so now it's a mixed story. If he only has that engineer's license, only he can have a license, he's got a really exclusive right to trade his license, he, but also the other one to abuse his license. I am absolutely sure that Mr Baralic will agree with my findings – if the amendment to Article 36 is adopted, any variant proposed by MP Djordjevic or MP Jovanovic, that Mr Baralic is willing to give up this amendment, and here is why. In this amendment to Article 36, where we have called off the discussion due to the riots introduced by the president by extending the debate to 20.00 hours, it is stated that licenses should be granted to people with higher school preparation of the construction profession and is indicated, please pay attention and I think it is particularly important this position 5 – building facilities for which the building approval is granted by the municipality, or the city of Belgrade, the basement floor plus four plus the attic, whose total surface does not cross, we have said 2,000, and others have said 3,000 meters, etc. In this way, it is possible that there is no trade in licences, and the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that only graduated engineers get licenses, with one exception being made for people with higher school qualifications that they can, because they do not belong to the license, to be responsible builders, so they said P+2, to 800 m2. Increase the square... And here was the responsible contractor, the builder's chief, probably someone with a higher school or maybe at that time a simple construction technician. The building was very high-quality, because the construction technician was able to read and understand what was written in the project and organize the site, build such a beautiful building. Well, here, private houses are made 800 meters square; take any more serious object, that's two or three thousand squares up. If this facility could be successfully built and held accountable on behalf of construction engineers or motor engineers, I don't know why they would become incapable of changing the law. The problem is that you support one lobby, which increases the cost of construction. In Belgrade, it is a public secret: to get a building permit is given another 100 euros per square square, a corresponding amount of funds is given because the construction inspection will close to making another floor past the project. Everybody knows that. You can't convince us here: professionalization, profession. What does this have to do with professionalism and profession? This has to do with crime and nothing else. Anyone who comes out for a pay phone and says they're pro-professional and can't understand these amendments, I have to tell you that I'm interpreting it as protecting criminals. I can't interpret it any other way. Why? Because reality is exactly what we're saying to these amendments. It's a reality. So it means that the licenses of a narrowly defined number of people are being misused, that on the basis of these licenses they are being paid illegally and building permits, they get a higher floor, they end everything and we end up with a square, of course, jumping. The price of a square meter of living space jumps. Citizens who need to buy also pay for the racket, pay for what is the price of a fictitious presence of one who has a license and what he signs there in those books, pay for that reference. In some municipalities, however, it is now moving from porters to the president of the municipality. What they say, when he was a SPS, the chief knew himself, so the job ends, and now he has to go from porter to president of the municipality. Everyone's got their own tax. You laugh, but you know, 25 people in Belgrade get permission wherever they want. You go down the street and you see some empty space, and the next day you see a banger and a machine and it's already done. Then the inspector comes to you and says - I have to come to you and tell you, they got permission to build there and they're gonna make two floors up. So you know all that and then you say, professionalism. What professionalism? In crime, if we protect that part of professionalism, then tell us to get out completely. We don't want anything to do with it. If any of these amendments are accepted to Article 36, where people who actually work on a construction site are allowed to organize a construction site, are responsible for building a building, have that status, get a license even though they're higher school equipment, that's where we make that compromise with you about that license, then believe me, it'll be cheaper building probably for a few thousand euros, as much as someone is fictitiously just for signing, and it doesn't show up at the construction site. If you bring order and urgency again, you will reduce the cost of construction and if, and I hear you're on your way, and for two years we've been inviting you to arrest that Kljajevic. I hear you arrested him today. All right, keep going, but you know, the next one's Labus. Kljajevic has to talk about Labus. Oh, oh, well, that's how you made "au" for Bogoljub Karic, so you started the procedure. "Au" you also made for Kljajevic when we pointed out what was going on in the Trade Court, you didn't want to solve it on the Great Personal Council, you stopped, and now we're telling you, a box opened and now it's going to move on. Just keep going. We're not stopping you here. Very simple and simple. The proof of real professionalism is that you adopt one of these two amendments to Article 36, because they are professionals who are on the construction site with higher school supplies. If one of those two amendments were adopted to Article 36, I am sure Mr Baralic would have given up this amendment on this article. I'm absolutely sure. Why? Because this amendment wanted to restore the reality that had been lost in the previous members. Take care of who you keep professionally. I got your attention yesterday, and I took an example of a street that needs to be paved and the infrastructure that's following that street needs to be handled. Find me who's the responsible contractor and what school supplies and what profession they need. Is it a car accident, is it a hydroengine, is it a constructor? What's the direction? Tell me, how are you going to apply it in Bosilegrad, as in Belgrade, as in Vrsca, how are you going to go to Nis? I remind you more, if the investor is a city, a municipality or a public company, where they will provide the expert, in Crno Trava, in Bojnik, in Bujanovac. Do not write regulations towards Belgrade, Serbia is not Belgrade, it is not a Belgrade circle of two. Tell me how you're gonna do this. Do you want to export these engineers with a license there to sign? How can he be present in Majornik and at the same time attend 10 construction sites in Belgrade? Isn't this what I'm talking about advocating professionalism, not some virtual reality you're presenting to us? You all know that the Forestman deliberately made a bad law. The law is so bad that those who used to steal felts, workcoats, sell, mess with used cars would today become Belgrade's largest investors. This was made possible by the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party has made it possible for its own, and you are now blindly committed to protecting some of the provisions of the bad law confirm not only cohabitation, but also complicity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25431	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25432	I'd really like to try to avoid controversy, even if it's about this important law. I want to talk about this law professionally, but that's what I do when I'm just forced to have some views of the first party, and then I try to get my professions to grow. At least now it's necessary to mention the president of the G17 Plus party and drag him into this law, and so baseless accusations, and I don't think there's any point in getting into some kind of analysis and defense of your objections. I went out to defend the position of professionals under this amendment and this member of the law. The fact is, abuse in our profession does. The fact is, corruption does. The fact is... I'm really trying to attribute my authority to the name - the urban mafia. The fact is, that's what he's got. Also, the responsibility to the license and the liability to the abuse of the license, it seems to me that this law makes it useful. You know that if someone who owns a license had disobeyed their rights in this way as my predecessor said, or as we heard in yesterday's and today's discussion, the only way to punish him is by either suspending his license temporarily or by being the one who fits the proper body of the engineering chamber. Abuses, the possibility of overbuilding, bribery to inspectors, that's something that exists completely independent of having a license. On the contrary, these petty little officials who are able to influence once in a while what someone with a license is actually going to decide are perhaps at times additionally able to choose whether to act by law, by the money they get from one investor or another, but if someone is prone to corruption, he may have a license or not have to have a license, it has nothing to do with one another. So I'm really asking you, when you analyze these laws, to analyze them in the spirit of practice, in the light of what's really going on. We can't favor... So, somebody explain to me why he's more prone to corrupting an engineer who has a license than he doesn't have. You know that there's an entire category, maybe there's even more engineers who have a license than others and there's no difference between their moral qualities based on the possession of a license. I really want to analyze this law with the real needs of property or the lack of licenses, giving licenses to someone with a high school or college. Let's talk about the real facts, not spread the subject to the area of corruption, where we're all completely consensual – means root out corruption. Is there a bigger fighter in the area of urbanism and construction than I am? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25433	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25434	I didn't say anything personal, I didn't call, but I have to draw attention to one logical lack of previous discussion. If the law forms a monopoly, it has made very suitable ground for corruption. If something could have done 120,000 people, and now it can do 10,000 people, then it's up to this smaller number of people. The Shumarce Law created a kind of monopoly that is not justified by anything; it is not justified by professionalism, by profession, and why is it not? Because it's impossible for the waist to express itself the moment the law was changed. I guess even before that law, some people built buildings, these buildings were successful, even getting people and rewards as good construction heads, responsible for building buildings. But by the very fact that out of the 120,000 people who could have done this job by 2003, by passing the law, only a few thousand of them could have been made, or the land was harvested to develop corruption. The law allowed an even bigger expansion of corruption, since despite the one with the higher school at the site, there is now another virtually standing in that same place, and at that point it is in 15 - 50 places by paper. I'm not talking about those examples, I totally agree with you, Mrs. Bosnjak, that no one asked you to, I didn't dispute it, I didn't talk about you at all, your profession and your profession. I'm just talking about the bad consequences produced by this law. This law has created a new monopoly. What monopoly? Twelve times he reduced the number of people who could sign some journals and then she jumped the price of those people. Since you've made all the facts known about corruption, about bribery, about building up, about the way security works, I just can't figure it out, it's known, and everybody knows that this law can't solve it. Then he's appealing that we accept something, that we don't attack, but we have to attack. This is more expensive both for the state and for that credit insurance corporation of yours, for the banks and for everything else. Why? Because this law installed an unauthorized monopoly for one type of people who say they are experts and they can sign 15 books every day, they are present at all construction sites, and they are not there and that is our objection. So to adopt these two amendments that we have proposed to Article 36 or one of those two amendments, then 120,000 people would be in a position to sign what they do in fact and then there would be no possibility of bribery, corruption and other illegal things. As for Mr. Labus, please, two years ago, Kljajevic had to get rid of all the laws. He is not resolved because G17 plus has exerted influence in the Great Personal Council that Kljajevic does not touch. If you don't believe me, ask the minister of justice, ask these others, because on the Justice Committee we asked questions – and when will the proposal to resolve Kljajevic come, and they say – it can't pass in the Great Personal Council because of G17 plus. Which is why you know what kind of privatisation was in Sartid's bankruptcy and not to spread the subject further.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25435	The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanović has the word, and Aleksandar Djordjevic, then Milka Silaev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Mr. Baralic's 37th is certainly to be supported for several reasons, because this is also a bad proposal, when it comes to self-control. This law doesn't exactly regulate the most important thing, which is legalization. The member mainly speaks about the control of funds spent on the budget of local self-government and donor funds. What I'm saying is that in my municipality of Lazarec, like many other municipalities, there are problems in the urban and construction mafia. In fact, to point out that in Lazarevec, the godfather of the municipality has five five-ways in a very short time, and there is also, not to say like every government, because there is always one number of tycoons that get rich overnight, and this one I mentioned... It should also highlight another tycoon, which built a castle in a year and a half and bought several cars and trucks. This society of local self-government, especially the Serbian government, should take care of its local tycoons, which are the activists of the parties in power, that I do not refer to people or parties individually at this time, but should draw attention to the fact that this is really happening in the Lazarevic municipality, and I suppose in many municipalities throughout Serbia. What I'm saying is that they're given on the party lines of building permits, buildings are built, and that's how many party activists, which should be prevented, have no such phenomena in the future. Mr Baralic wanted this proposal to specify the control I was already talking about, and previous speakers mentioned it as well. I therefore believe that this would greatly improve this bill and specify things about self-control of spending. When it comes to legalisation, it should also be pointed out that we have not been precise enough in this law to bring out the key things, which are necessary for the state of Serbia, because we know that we have a huge number of tens of thousands of objects, and this certainly tortures the Lazarec municipality, so that we don't get to an unpleasant situation and use force here and then on some party line again to tear down objects and leave someone behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25437	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group feels it is necessary to adopt an amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I will read to you only one part of the 6th session of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction of the National Assembly, held on 12 May 2004, with the agenda where the first point was - the reply of the Ministry of Capital Investments to the conclusions of the Committee from 30 March and 28 April 2004, and everything related to the work of the Engineering Chamber. "In the opening remarks, the Assistant Minister explained that the Ministry of Capital Investments, in general, on the basis of all reports delivered on the work of the Engineering Chamber of Serbia during the specified period, concluded that the work of the Engineering Chamber was illegal, when it came to selecting members of the Supervisory Board by the Management Board, not by the Chamber's Assembly, denying the authority to perform certain professions for which they were trained, and giving authority to certain professions for which they had not been trained, that the provisions of the Chamber of Commerce statutes relating to the issue of licences are not in line with the Law on Planning and Construction and that the amount of funds paid from the report provided to the Ministry differ from the amount of funds paid in earlier reports." I only gave one copy of the report of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, which speaks precisely about the work of the Engineering Chamber, established by the Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted in 2003. The Serbian Radical Party submitted to the National Assembly a bill to put aside the Law on Planning and Construction, in November 2004, to overcome the vacuum until it passed a new law, which would solve all the problems created by the existing and valid Law on Planning and Construction, in order to correct all these things. The reasons for the adoption of laws and an explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions – above all, we thought that the proposed law would prevent this existing law from a major robbery of citizens of Serbia. It proved to be the aim of the Democratic Party, which was ruling at the time and which passed this discriminatory law. So, the amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS is about the nature of the law. A colleague from G17 plus spoke – my God, we considered this a transitional solution. You had to propose a new law here that would correct all injustices against the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, brought by the Democratic Party. Of course you didn't, because you're with them at the local government in Belgrade. Mrs. Bosnjak, you're also a member of the city council, as far as I know, and you say you care about your expertise. With this law, you've put all the propulsion engineers in a position that is, above all, unconstitutional. You took away their right to work. Everything Mr. Krasic said about this pay phone is absolutely correct. (President: Time.) ) These construction engineers and other engineers designed all the facilities in the former SFRY. You have proved by this law, which you support, that you are no better than those of the DS who ruled before you. Of course your stakeholders within your party G17 plus and DS are interested exactly not to touch this part that you wanted to protect from these proposals. You haven't changed anything in the existing law by amending and supplementing the law. The essence of these proposals has only cosmetic changes to that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25439	The People's Messenger Milka Silaev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25440	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, I would like to say that in many cases I agree with Mr. Baralic, but in this case I do not. I'm from a family where there are three knees of engineers, which are building, which is electrical engineering, which is telecommunications. In the end, when you are in such a family, you live with many things, with problems, and accidentally adopt the terminology and problems that are present in those areas. All I know is that before the war and after the war, for many years, the rules of construction have been respected, and these are that design and surveillance must be done by graduate engineers. Performing works, running a construction site, it's a job for an engineer without a degree. Everyone found their place in that business hierarchy. Although it was thought that there were not enough engineers after the war, they were there for these jobs and there was no problem. Surveillance and design, it's a huge responsibility. The failure of the project is absolutely behind the prison. It's on surveillance, too. Building books is necessary. Why? Because the construction book is a document from which the work inspection, as well as a construction inspection, can determine where mistakes occurred and thus enables law enforcement. If, as a society, we are committed to respecting the law in society, respecting the norms, we must adopt such a law as it is proposed. I absolutely support the law proposed by the Ministry. We must not deviate from what we have done well, and for a time the law's disrespect was absolutely absolute. Maybe that's when the mistakes happened. Maybe that's when there was a deviation in society. It's undeniable, it's possible, but let's make it right, let's not let that happen. It's all up to us. Let's let the inspection have insight into our business, and they'll have insight if they run the construction books well. The construction book absolutely provides an opportunity for these insights to be created and to know exactly what was done, how was done, and to respect legality. I'd say control in our society is necessary. This is a form of respect for control and avoiding the possibility of various machinations. There may be major failures in construction. The construction book is proof that the leak won't come. Why? It is possible to install materials that are not projected. Therefore, there is an inspection to determine which materials are identified through the construction book. If we want legality, I think we need to accept what the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25441	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25442	Mr. Vice President, I will return the compliment, and I also greatly respect my colleague Silaev, but that doesn't mean that I should agree with all the arguments she's offered. I remind all respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament that Yugoslavia was then, and Serbia, a projective and building power, that so many buildings were designed and built, that almost no larger country could be initiated, with greater financial potential; that construction and design were the most important export brand; that buildings were built across the globe, from the Asuan dam to various special congress centres, to various industrial plants, almost every point of the globe, from the hot belt to Siberia. Have you ever heard that with any of these buildings, say, a fallen terrace or that some kind of kick happened? I remind you, a few years ago, under the new law and new procedures and licences, terraces fell like pears in Belgrade and, unfortunately, people died. It's not about self-proceeding, it's about whether we're responsible people. A man can be responsible even when he digs the most common channel. I also remind you that many construction workers who were engaged in black have lost their lives, because here in Belgrade, around us, the trenches that were not provided. Just please, I'm speaking a language that everyone understands, it's not about driving the max to the end, there's something else here – someone knows or doesn't know how to work, and someone unfortunately has more paper for what the other guy doesn't have, so on that basis can do those or these things. If no one were to transfer us, I would want every supervisory authority to be a professor of construction college, I would love to see all of this work as it is proposed here and in law and as our distinguished colleagues advocate. Life is one thing, and practice is something else. I remind you and warn you that today in Serbia, existing buildings in the form of flat roof adaptation are being built on several floors, that new buildings are being set up in the former Trade Street on Ban’s hill in front of buildings that were previously built, that things are happening again that I am not sure whether quality will be able to provide what is the elemental security of citizens etc. So, let's finish the story about this. It'll be the way it has to be. I want to believe that it is possible for Serbia to wash all this out, because Serbia is a country where it was possible to finish college and when you're a nerd, if you've been motivated, and if you're worthy of working, but objectively in the field there are problems with that. There's going to be an opportunity to re-analyze the changes and additions made to this bill in a year, so we're going to tell you who was right. I wish it were you and it would be my pleasure to say - okay, I made a mistake writing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25443	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic and Stanisa Stevanovic together submitted an amendment proposing that Article 37a be added after article 37a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25444	No minister, he'll give him a message, I hope, but it would be really nice to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday we found out he couldn't do it, but here I am going to say what I have to say about the amendment to my 39th colleague, Peter Jojic. The amendment refers to the original Article 140. The Law on Planning and Construction, and Article 140, says that the building inspector in carrying out inspection checks, then lists what he is checking, among other things, whether the start of the construction of the facility, i.e. the execution of the works, has been reported in a regulated manner. We asked the amendment to say that the start of the construction of the facility, i.e. the execution of the works after the approval has been granted, has been declared in a prescribed manner. So the difference between what is in the bill and what is the proposal for our amendment is that we think it should be precisely said that this provision refers to the reported works for which the building approval has been granted. If we just say it refers to the performance of the papers reported in the prescribed manner, what does it mean? This means, registered in a regulated manner, writing a notice to the municipal authority of the administration, to be submitted in the office and in a prescribed manner, the investor informed that the construction had begun. We just insist that it be specified, that it refers to the application of the construction for which the building approval has been granted. So what you suggested in this article 140th is fine and we haven't touched it, but we think it's necessary to accept this amendment. I don't know, I'm surprised you missed accepting it, because you can really make sure now it applies to only one legal provision, and that's exactly one way to avoid everything we've heard here today from a colleague from the SRS and from a colleague who's going to vote for this law. No one suspects there is a so-called. The urban mafia in all Serbian cities. You yourself confirmed yesterday that you filed criminal charges against members of some urban mob, or people who violate this law, that's how we baptize them. So, you at the Ministry know what we're saying here, that there's this kind of problem, and we just wanted this amendment to help both the Ministry and the local self-government to have a clean situation. I don't know if any of you have ever worked in some local self-government; if you have, then it's clear to him what I've said – that what you've written is that something has been reported in a proper manner only implies a prescribed way of reporting, and that doesn't mean that the other conditions are met. You know, you sign up in a proper manner, and if you write that Marko Markovic has an improperly built facility on the plot and on the one, on the street and on that one, you've reported it in a prescribed manner, and the inspection goes on the ground and finds there's no object at all. So this is about the difference between essence and form. This amendment has only that intention to clear up this situation and that we have a truly precise formulation, which cannot question the authorities, or part of the government's body in local self-government, inspections above all. I think it's really high time we passed laws that will prevent as much abuse as possible and stop making laws that are always something with the possibility of broad interpretations, and whenever it comes to some broad interpretation, then there's certainly a possibility of abuse. Maybe someone will say, "Why do you radicals always question anything in advance?" I am going to tell you, in fact, to remind you, that since I've been in this House, and already in my second session, I haven't missed an opportunity when it comes to some subject in the area of justice not to ask the Minister, the President of the Supreme Court, of the High Council of Justice to stand at the end of Judge Goran Kljajevic, the President of the then Trade Court in Belgrade. I've always reported that he was still like a crisis chief who broke into the Trade Court and then kidnapped the seals and documentation of the then President of the Trade Court, then it was the Commercial Court, Mrs. Milena Arezini. I also spoke, and we were all talking about the famous one, and it already seems a bit forgotten, and here I am reminding you, the Mercedes-Benz affair in which the main actor was Goran Kljajevic, and then the prosecutor of the Fourth District Prosecutor Biljana Radovanovic, and then the one Nenad Milic, then the deputy police minister, etc. Why do I mention all this? Simply to draw attention to you that we Serbian radicals really say nothing just like that, but for everything we say we have absolute and evidence and documentation. The fact that it takes the authorities a long time to collect the same documentation or to be bold to take one step, such as the arrest of this Goran Kljajevic, is the problem of the one exercising power. As part of this arrest, let me inform you, respected colleagues and the public of Serbia, that some Brasnevic has been arrested, I think, Miki and Milenko. I think they own a company called Ecotrade, or I may have misnamed it, but they are Brasnevic, for sure. I don't know why they're arrested, but I know it's the people second in line, the first one is Dragan Djilas, and the second one is Dragan Sutanovac, who recited these Brasnavic for plasma televisions he took for himself and Boris Tadic. They can probably watch these big thin screens arrest these people. Of course, we'll find out, probably from them. I really hope they too will say that Sutanovac has recited them for these plasma televisions for themselves and for Tadic. Some others have been arrested, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. We hope, although we do not believe that these arrests are not just political conflicts and that the country is indeed going to fight crime. That's what we'll see for ourselves and believe only when all the criminals are arrested. There's a lot of people who are still walking around, still stealing money from this people. Some are at the top of the government today. I don't think a real crime deal will come until after the next election. What is also interesting is what is happening in Novi Pazar, a decision to disband the City of Novi Pazar. You may not think it has anything to do with this subject, but I think it does, because that urban mafia is spread across all municipalities, unfortunately, in Serbia. So, the decision to disband the assembly in Novi Pazar is certainly a political decision and we do not want to, and we do not think that we are taking sides with Rasim Ljajic or Sulejman Ugljanin, but the fact that these two MPs of Sulejman Ugljanin allow the authorities of Vojislav Kostunica to continue, and that is probably the real reason why the assembly is disbanded. A very interesting statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus, who told the media that such a decision by the government is scandalous. Imagine, this Labus signed the government's decision. So that's what it says about different arches and dual morality. It is more proof of our claim that it is indeed high time to end this farce and that this government is finally defined as the only right decision, which is to call the elections and stop wasting time on such laws, as is this bill of planning and construction. Indeed, we listened today and yesterday to colleagues who would vote for this law probably, which I respect as experts in this area, but it was obvious that they were not thrilled with the bill, or that they had quite an objection to this law. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government's representative in absentia does not accept amendments to the SRS, then at least it should accept amendments from the parties to vote for this law, which have submitted really valid amendments, with the obvious intention of making this law as much as possible and that its adoption really makes sense. Now, this will be one in a series of laws so that someone can boast how much legislation this House has passed, and I don't remind you now, that I don't list how many laws have been passed, and not apply how many commissions and various bodies should have been formed under the various laws that you adopted, and not formed, how many sublegal acts under these laws should have been passed by certain ministries and not. So, unfortunately, we are wasting time here convincing the government of the Republic of Serbia to start doing something serious, but it has no effect. Here, today we are discussing this law in particular, and when we spoke in the principle of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction of Minister Velimir Ilic, a representative of the Government, clearly said what we Serbian radicals are up for, and that is that the government is preparing a new bill. The new bill is indeed necessary, but a proposal that will be entirely on other grounds, which will indeed benefit the citizens of Serbia, will allow for simpler and faster obtaining approval for construction and approval of buildings built without a building permit. It's the only law that would make sense. All this other stuff is throwing dust in your eyes. I also ask those who defend this law, or who will vote for it, and I ask the representatives of the ministry, if they can stand for this pay phone and tell the citizens of Serbia, if this law is passed – Serbian citizens, you will be able to get building permits, and then say within what time; you who built the buildings without a building permit will get so-called. Licences for legalisation, please state within the time limit. I claim Serbia's citizens that this law does not allow it and that this law, I'm sorry, is the beating of empty straw.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25445	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25446	Just one explanation for these general purposes that are understood in all terms: the Deputy Prime Minister is obliged to sign all government decisions, even if he did not vote for them or be abstention, etc. In the absence of the Prime Minister, he's the only one who can sign - Deputy Prime Minister, so don't give false information here and create a bad picture when that's not true. If you want to talk, then just the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25447	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25448	First of all, let us clarify these frequent remarks "the ambassador of general purposes" or as "the ambassadors of no purpose" call the MPs who do their work; to clarify that the MPs who have their own parties, and these parties have political programmes, which is the case with the MPs of the SRS, can indeed talk about any topic and should know how to speak, because each topic of the SRS has its own position and has a programme commitment. That's exactly how the MPs of the SRS speak. For information to some who think that maybe I'm not competent to talk about this law, I'm going to say that for many years I've been head of the Department of Property and Legal Affairs, then that's what it was called, in the Municipality of Zemun, and that I'm confidently more experienced and knowledgeable about this matter than the writers of this law. As to whether or not I had led the public astray if I said that Deputy Prime Minister Labus had signed a decision to disband the Parliament of Novi Pazar and you confirmed it, so that's true, but I was talking about Mr. Labus' hypocrisy. I know, of course, that he, as vice president, should sign a decision made by the government and, of course, that he should sign a decision against which he is personal, because it is the government's decision, and he is the Deputy Prime Minister and it is not controversial, but it is truly scandalous for the Deputy Prime Minister to say that the government has made a scandalous decision and that he has signed such a decision. A moral man, a moral vice president of the government, if he were aware that the government in which he is vice president is making a scandalous decision, I would say - my dear colleagues, I cannot sign that decision, because it is scandalous and instead I am resigning. For such an act should be moral.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25449	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment proposing that members 39a and 39b be added after article 39a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation on the amendment by opposing my opinion, imagine, my colleague, Alexander Djordjevic, of the SRS. He said this - you had to propose a new law. counterpart Djordjevic, they did not have to propose a new law, the Serbian Radical Party had to propose and propose it, you know, two years ago. Why did he have to be proposed by the Serbian Radical Party? Because after the adoption of the previous, or still valid law, scandalous law, Serbian citizens recognized in the SRS someone who struggled for their interests and gave it a million signatures and thus obliged the MPs of the SRS to propose a new and quality law. I'm not surprised, nor am I disappointed that there is no minister here today. I assume he's in Bora today. Mr. Rankic, have election activities started in Bora? He's free to go, I guess he'll spend the next month there, but you, Mr. Rankic, will probably be President of the Bor Municipality. Who's to blame for this number of illegal buildings? At least it's the citizens of Serbia who built these facilities, I don't mean construction and other tycoons. It's not their fault, it's the administration's fault, it's the ones who asked for some money to issue certain building permits. I'm surprised my amendment wasn't accepted. When we suggest that something be deleted, they say – they suggest that it be deleted, and when we suggest that something be added, changed, complemented to make this law that is not good... I will also use some statistics: 59 amendments to this law have been filed; the SRS has submitted 16, adopted four, and that is 25%, and Minister Velimir Ilic said 40% was accepted, or 50% in the first version. And to inform this Smederev, whom the Minister of Capital Investments has promised, that is, to the citizens, only that he will win and be well-being in Smederevo – will not, Minister Velimir Ilic will forget half of it, throw half into the river and then there will be nothing. I hope that when I explain my amendment to the representatives of the government, that is, the associates of Mr Velimir Ilic, the experts from that area, their knowledge and expertise, will accept that amendment. Minister Ilic told us, in explaining this law, that he wanted order in this area, and that would be good. First of all, the SRS and I, as the applicant of this amendment, also want to build roads so that Serbian citizens do not trample mud. It would be enough to begin with that Minister Ilic and his government stop dragging Serbian citizens into the live mud, and since the majority of Serbian citizens are not wearing 600-euro shoes like Tadic's tycoon, but are wearing quite ordinary and decent shoes, they are proudly living in this Serbia, they will be able to cope and the Serbian Radical Party will give its role to the maximum when it comes, with the help of Serbian citizens, to power and to address these problems. This law has great importance for us because it needs to help a large number of Serbian citizens who are in some period, and most likely because of poor and bad administration, it starts with the ministry itself, as it was called during the time of Minister Šumarac, Ministry of Construction, and beyond, because citizens were expected not only to provide funds for the construction of these facilities, but also to pay someone who would give them and sign certain papers. I suggested that Article 141 should be amended in one position where it is said that during the inspection supervision, the inspector ordered a solution to the collapse of the facility, if the building was built or completed without the approval for construction, application of the beginning of works (in the sense of Article 114) and the main project, after 13 May 2003. We wanted this way for citizens who have already started and finished building objects without having proper papers and permits, May 13th is definitely the last time when it can start in such a way, because we want to establish a positive and good practice. Then, after Article 39a, to add Article 39b, which states that Article 142 paragraph 1 after point 3) adds a new point 4) which reads – that works for which no construction approval is granted will be carried out, it will order the investor or contractor to immediately suspend the work until he has obtained a certificate of application of works (in the sense of Article 97). Article 97 of the applicable law refers to the ban on certain works, and this is certainly about auxiliary buildings whose construction does not require special permits, but the investor, or whoever finances the execution of these works, is obliged to report the execution of such works. I don't see any big problem here, but because of the establishment and establishment of a good and new positive practice, it shouldn't start with construction or auxiliaries, and that, since the law has prescribed, there's only a obligation to inform, not to start building before it is notified. In the end, I must say something: when it is said "the ambassadors of general purposes", there is one MP who has a moment of presence in this House quite good, except for a replica, or perhaps a Rules of Procedure after the speech of the MPs of the SRS. I don't know if that MP meant only the MPs of the SRS or others, he says – until when will he lecture us those who use two or three downfalls? The Serbian Radical Party could bring 82 professors to this parliament, or professors at universities, but not only science doctors and university professors live in Serbia. In Serbia, decent citizens, workers, farmers, peasants live, and therefore the SRS has led Branko Rankovic, one of Serbia's largest fruit producers. Other peoples and peoples live in Serbia besides Serbs, which is why the SRS brought Sulejman Spah to this parliament, which is the best possible way to represent and protect the interests of the citizens of the Serbs of Muslim religion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25451	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25452	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the SRS who submitted the amendment, Sreto Peric, explained the SRS amendment to Article 39 that members of 39a and 39b were added after article 39a. It is a logical trail of amendments submitted by MP Petar Jojic of the SRS. So, these amendments we made to the National Assembly, we tried to fix this bill, which is a bad legal solution and will not fix, of course, this discriminatory law that was passed by the DS in 2003. And by what someone here said and when I read a letter from the Association of Construction Engineers and Technicians written to the SRS yesterday, I read it clearly, where they asked for the resignation of Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic precisely for the reason that these amendments and amendments of the law are not meant to correct the possibility of giving drivers the ability to work and design and to get licences, we received a letter from the licensed membership of the Engineering Chamber. I'll read only part of it, where they've written that they're asking the Engineering Chamber not to share our professions with more sub-structures, because we've been finishing colleges, not sub-faculties, and giving more licenses for one profession is a big shame. In that sense, we suggest that the money from the second and third licences be returned to us or transferred to membership fees for next year, because then let the total price of all the licenses of one profession be higher. It is noted here – if more than one pair had to be added to the work costs of the Engineering Chamber, it was more correct that one license for the whole profession cost, for example. 21,000 dinars, the first 10,000 dinars, the second 7,000 dinars, the third 4,000 dinars. We all know how to add together, and none of us are going to give up any part of our profession, because that's his basic source of income. After all, how is the line drawn between these soles when they intertwine? If that were to be sustainable, then there should be separate colleges for each substitute. I only read one section of the letter of licensed graduate engineers and architects given to our MP group. So, what was I gonna say? The establishment of Serbia's Engineering Chamber has been welcomed by all engineers with some joy and a high-quote engineering profession. However, the Law on Planning and Construction, which was in force, did not just resolve the status, but brought in the position and graduated engineers to depend on a society that gathered into stakeholders behind the name of the Democratic Party. It's mostly the urban mafia, which in all the major cities of Serbia does what it does. This is very well known by Mrs. Bosnjak, who tried to nimble this proposal to amend and supplement the law. However, what my colleague Mr. Peric said, you did not have a clear concept and did not have a program. If you had it, you would suggest here legal proposals that would solve all areas, both urbanism and construction, as well as others. It's just a formal change, cosmetics, in the sense that something would change. Nothing's really gonna change. You will continue, until the citizens of Serbia show you in the next elections who they will vote for... Of course they'll vote for change and for the SRS. Such legal solutions only further prolong chaos, especially in this area of urbanism and construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25453	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Nedimovic submitted an amendment, with corrections, which he proposed to add Article 40a after article 40a. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction, the Urban and Construction Committee has accepted an amendment with corrections, without corrections since 5 April 2006, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with a correction since 5 April 2006 legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 42a be added after article 42a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Planning and Construction brought by Dragoslav Šumarac has met with a very negative echo among millions of Serbian citizens. We Serbian radicals, we who have been able, as we will be able and your authority to drive before time, have replaced both the Dossova furniture and the Schumarca and all those who did not want to listen to what we told them, we have implemented a short-term action in which millions and 100,000 citizens throughout Serbia have been identified and demanded that the Law on Planning and Construction be put out of effect. We insisted on it when this assembly of the Serbian Parliament was established and you did not want to accept it. We think we should have done a whole new project. My amendment is only a trace of the beginning of our whole story – to delete a member of the 84th existing Shumartz Law, or Article 27. This was the amendment of counterpart Milan Stevovic. It is now going through Article 161 and 42. I propose that Article 42a be added to this amended bill, in order to enable the transport of land, because we as a party, unlike almost all actors on the political scene of Serbia, when it comes to changing individual constitutions, are strictly committed to what needs to be changed in the Constitution, and one of these things is not only permanent use, but possession of city building land. However, neither our proposals nor the fact that we were the first to go out, or Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in the constitutional committee with concrete solutions to what should be done, or even saying that it could change the amendment around social property, around building land... We are now coming to the fact that we have such a principled attitude in terms of the Law on Planning and Construction and that the public will rather accept this solution, because it is actually the product of our long-standing work on these and other issues, on the problems that citizens have and are facing. This law on planning and construction, i.e. changes and additions, and in a qualitative sense, and especially in bureaucratic terms, will not make any moves for the citizens of Serbia. Something symbolic, which is nothing, in the problems they face. Coming in this morning after this huge rain and a shower from Kragujevac at a session of the Serbian Parliament, I expected that at 10 o'clock above all to provide that famous 84-day quorum of yours for the start of the week, so since it was delayed by 11 o'clock, it would happen with the presence of Minister Velimir Ilic, who is now in charge of this area in the famous Capital Investments Ministry. He's gone and no one has an answer to where he is. Yesterday, this DS president and Pajtic walked along the Danube coast, only to see what the Danube looks like. You know, some things a man must see for the first time in his life, I believe that he never took a Zemun keam for a walk, yesterday he was walking to New Zealand's keam; because, if a man who was born in Montenegro, he said, wore it as a kid, twice went to Montenegro, where his father came from, he just shows up in such situations, then it's amazing that the minister who's in charge of all these troubles, and the locals of many towns and settlements in Serbia, is not here today, and it's talking about this law. If you don't have an answer and if you don't know the chairman that he's on the ground, where the most vulnerable part of Serbia is now, unfortunately there's a lot of them, then it's amazing that you're telling us that he's somewhere, why he's stuck in a rat hole. I'm telling you this because Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, who chaired the assembly session yesterday afternoon, is not now in a position to come here, but asked me to inform the public on her behalf about the next one. Thirty people, it is the seven families from the village of Beveji boat from Zemun, who were moved from their homes a while ago when the water came and when it became evident that these were unconditional housing facilities; the municipality of Zemun, the military and primarily the citizens of volunteers who helped Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic and the municipal authorities in Zemun had done everything to enable these people to have electricity, regular medical checks, to give them aid in the supplies. Then he appeared, after many days since it happened, Velimir Ilic and said that he himself would take up half of his family's budget (repeated, Bovine's settlement, Zemun, seven families, 30 people) to build houses; because, he took up half of his republican budget and you gave him such arrogant behaviour and that he promised everything and everything in his own name and said that he himself, Velimir Ilic, would take up that as soon as he started building houses for these people, all he needed was the crying. Gentlemen, you who have come from the Ministry, because your minister is not here, and that black purse is not his obvious, and this material on the table, who knows where he is and what he is doing now, has sent you to keep your mouth shut and to nod or no air, but I am informing you that Mrs. Pop-Lazic, and today in this storm, along with volunteers, citizens and members of the army and with all these good people who defend and are ready to defend against the upcoming wave of water to the municipality of Zemun, told Velimir Ilic not to deceive and lie to the citizens of Serbia, nor these people from the village of Beef Ship. If he's already said it's only necessary for them to have plaques and he's going to start building right now, she's ready, as far as today, to say she's coming in half an hour, in an hour, sending someone from the Ministry to Zemun municipality to sign contracts for the award of wages and the start of construction... So to tell us some stories, those poor, unhappy people, they whine all day on all the news, they don't have boots, they don't have boats, they have nothing to move. Every city in Serbia that is more flooded has been transformed into Venice. What's this all about? It's about the irresponsibility of a man who jumps into Ibar allegedly, so he comes out dry, and now he promises people he'll build them houses, they just need the crying. Here, the woman is responsible, the president of the municipality and says, "There's crying, let her come, because if you promise someone you'll build a house for him, there must be a contract on that." This is the same Bogdanović story for three settlements in the municipality of Zemun, for Busije, Grmovac and Blue Horizons. Serbian radicals, led by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, when they freed Zemun from the previous government, so now we've released her again from this Dosmanian 2004, were going to build new settlements with the intention of doing everything in accordance with their municipal powers, the city's municipalities, to get the necessary infrastructure. All I have to do is this fellow who's out, who's on the surface and on time in politics, to warn that such politics is not free, but completely wrong, because it's like nothing and never, so you better let him raise his hands. He found that he respected Verica Radeti, who worked for years as head of the construction relations sector and served as deputy minister of justice, or was talking to Serbian radicals, who are trained and specialized to talk about all topics, and you know why? Because it's amazing for us to have a citizen come to us and ask us if, what do you think about that member of the Labour Act, what do you think about a member of the Seed Act, veterinary, agriculture, about what, and that someone, whether Radisa Ilic, Četrović, Milajić, Dr Dunjic or Moma, is competent to say - you know, I'm not competent. But rather than being competent, all areas are competent, because the work of the MPs is to learn, to work, to fight for the citizens and to know every law. I'm asking you if you're allowed to sleep, you're on the other side of how many of you there are, or here, those who are correspondents, and you don't know what's on the agenda and whether you have conscience and responsibility to know how much the law is and who's on the agenda. Now let me ask you, here's to starting with the poll, what's on the agenda on Monday, since this chairman has been quick to schedule a session, you have no idea, and if you know what that law is, so it's just amazing. We come out here, we representatives of the people who go without any protection, because we don't fear anything but God, we protect the citizens, we go among the people, we travel to our houses, we go back, we walk the streets of Belgrade, we say the Brasnavics were criminals before, we tell the Sutanovac that he's recited them, we tell Kljajevic that he's a criminal, for Chumeta, for members of this clan, because we're honest and honorable people, that's what the party president is, that's his deputy, that's what we Serbian radicals are, and that's the difference between you and us. When I say that Minister Ilic should come here and those who shout "thank God," and the question is whether they pray to God and whether they know the Father, you better keep your mouth shut. As for Minister Ilic and his not being here, tell him, gentlemen, because I see you following all this with attention, that he does not mess with the fates of people and of these families and that he was personally told by Gordana Pop-Lazic, because if she comes to him here, and he shows up, make sure he flies feathers. It is truly amazing that someone suffers such a minister and where we are not in power, and where we are, where he does not take matters out of his jurisdiction, he lies to people who, in this rain and at this temperature of all four degrees outside, have to stay in tents, and all thanks, first of all, to the engagement of these people here. You know, I got to tell you, you don't just have to mess around with some stuff and you're doing your own class. I remember, once, Cedomir Jovanovic, with all Micicka and that failed DOS, had some performance, some action on the Tasmajdan prosthesis, the shaming of some seedlings; and, imagine the irony of fate, where they went to have a drink – the restaurant is called "The Last Chance". Your last chance has gone long ago, because you haven't done anything, nor have you tried at least to show by setting up sacks that you're ready to protect the citizens and help them, and for those of us who are doing it and for the people who are now in the field, Serbian radicals, you know you're saying that we are like this, that we should be exported there or here. It's a shame and a shame and the biggest shame is that the minister isn't here, that he left you to sit down and make a front for him and that you approve of all his bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25455	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, essentially in the same text, MP Meho Omerovic, with correction, and MP Rajko Baralic, submitted. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 48th Amendment together include the mid-term MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragan M. Jovanovic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25456	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me say something about the amendment to Article 48. This article refers to a new cycle of application in the legalisation process. With these amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, this very article is intended to approve a period of three months after the adoption of this law, as a period when citizens who built without an appropriate building permit, or building permit, as it relates to the period before 2003, can apply. The legislator took into account the experience of the practice by which a large number of citizens were in a situation that, living abroad, there is no knowledge that the legalisation process exists or for some other property-law reasons was prevented from applying for a permit to build under this new law, or there have been cases where someone was prevented from using his law under the 2003 law because of his absence. What does that mean? This means that the legislator, respecting the practice, created the possibility in this law for the number of citizens to apply, but only for buildings that were built without an appropriate building permit by 2003, i.e. until the entry into force of the 2003 law. Formal-legal and moral, professionally, there may have been reasons for that. We have submitted the amendment, and by commenting on the amendment of colleagues who submitted an amendment to Article 48 of the Law, we wanted to point out that practice has shown that the opening of a new registration cycle in the legalisation process is actually a new signal to those who are the easiest and best aware that they abuse the law that allows them to apply for legalisation. By 2003 and in the legalisation process of the 2003 law, the most beneficial were people who had built for the market without proper permits; using the opportunity to legalise these objects under the legalisation process they had achieved enormous benefits. On the other hand, the 2003 law in this segment has another illogicality. In fact, the G17 plus party wanted that segment to change and maybe it had to step up in that direction. The 2003 law stipulated that registration in the legalisation process is done by the owner of the property, not by the builder. In fact, the offence was done by a contractor, an investor, all those in a row, using a non-solid procedure, an illegal procedure, having achieved immaterial benefit, and the impact of the law came from people who came out of ignorance, being deceived, buying real estate. In fact, it was they who had to apply for legalization and they had to pay those compensations. What was going on in practice? It is clear that the buyer of the property must be sound enough to consult a professional in the purchase process, check the status of the property, whether what he buys has an appropriate building and use permit. You also know that a large number of customers are relatively ignorant, that in a large number of cases, the real estate contractor puts out a copy of the plan, and puts it on construction permit. At the end of the line, when you buy a property based on a building permit, you don't know if the builder will build his property and turn the three-story into a four-story building and make the facility illegal. I'm afraid by opening a new application procedure in the legalisation process, we're going to give a signal to those who know best how to abuse these holes in the law, we're going to give a signal to these same non-solid builders and investors that what they've been doing by 2003 can now, with false testimony, come true again as their own benefit. I know we can't write the law in a way that is not compatible, but since this law in Article 48 has already gone towards practice and the cases that I mentioned at the beginning of my presentation, I think this member should have taken into account everything I've already said and that much more is being corrected in this direction to protect against the abuses of the very least-needed ones in the legalisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25457	Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 49th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Branko Bosnjak, Vladimir Milankov and Vladimir Homan. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Branislav Blazic submitted an amendment to Article 51. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. In Article 51, the words "until 13 May 2003" are replaced by the words "until the day of entry into force of this law", and the words "until 13 November 2003" are replaced by "in accordance with Article 48 of this Law". Reason: the amendment complies with the proposed Article 48. So, the Serbian Radical Party submitted an amendment to Article 51, which says that the facility used for housing, whose construction, i.e. reconstruction was completed without a building permit by 13 May 2003 and which its owner reported to the municipal, or city administration by 13 November 2003, may, under the prescribed conditions, be temporarily, until the issue of a building authorisation, connected to an electricity, thermal or telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. So, this amendment, in a precise and clear way, we have tried to fix Article 51, because we believe that this article 51 is not a good solution. We hope that in the voting day you will vote for Mr Branislav Blazic's amendment. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, I especially want to point out that Serbia is one of the few countries in the region that has no elaborate plan and regulation plans, and should have them. Of course, you agree. As an example of what the Serbian Radical Party pointed out and what we stand for and where we ruled and where we rule at the level of local self-government will only mention the period from 1996 to 2000, when the president of the municipality was our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj and Zemun municipality, one of the municipalities that functioned in the best possible way. It was an example for all municipalities in Serbia. So it can't be any political party of the ruling coalition to deny it, because then we're in Zemun... Today you can see these results of the reign of the Radicals in Zemun, so after four years the Radicals won again in Zemun and do again as they did. The people of Zemun are pleased. All that needs to be done in terms of legalization, which could be done, what you were saying in the campaign that the first law you passed would be a law on planning and building, it was your duty, since you formed a non-discipline coalition government with opposing programmes. In this area, you had to have a clear concept of how you would solve all the shortcomings and laws passed by the Democratic Party, which put in one position, let me say, especially engineers and graduate engineers, because only here are a small number of people who were around the Government of the Republic of Serbia and then Minister Šumarac used in an illegal manner, and so concluded the Building Committee. I've read, I won't repeat, a copy of last year's session and how all the MPs who were members of that committee have appointed themselves. At that time, the Committee had a clear vote in all its views on the Engineering Chamber. What's disastrous in the current amendment and supplemental proposal is that you haven't solved the issue of the Engineering Chamber in the right way, you haven't solved the legalisation issue; these are the parts of the laws that are very important and there has to be changes. Of course, we have tried these amendments to fix a legal solution that is not good. We hope that you will be so aware of the situation in which Serbia is and the citizens of Serbia, because the law in force is a bad, discriminatory law for all citizens of Serbia, and that you will support all of our amendments to the National Assembly, regardless of what Minister of Capital Investments Mr Velimir Ilic said that you accepted 40% of the Serbian Radical Party amendment. You accepted out of 16 amendments only four, as my colleague Peric said, it is 25% of the amendment. So all the amendments we've submitted you've had to accept, because this amendment and supplementation of the law is not a good solution. Of course, there is a political group in this assembly -- G17 Plus, which has its own interests with the DS government in Belgrade in the way it rules. The political urban mafia in Belgrade is ruling through DS and G17 plus, and that is the essence. That is why you did not want to amend this discriminatory law passed by the Democratic Party as ruling in the previous meeting. There is a letter from construction engineers that I read yesterday, in six points, which they wrote with a request to resign Mr Velimir Ilic's capital investment minister. I just read the reason number one that they listed, and I'm going to read another part of the letter, and that's what they say -- you're responsible, Mr. Minister, for not building a system that is more effective in protecting the citizens of Serbia and their property from disasters and natural disasters. Your system, you call it flood defense crisis headquarters or some other accident, doesn't work, and our claim confirms the effects of the flood in Banat. The existing system of crisis headquarters to defend against floods or some other accidents is pure amateurism, and it only proves two examples, and we could list a lot more. In the case of a local community president, Jasa Tomic, who said he had asked for a helicopter to be hired to determine where the water went to the village and, of course, the helicopter did not get it. It is logical that by order of the president of the local community, a helicopter cannot be hired because the presidents of the local community function in a system where they do not even know the number of mobile phones of their president of the municipality, let alone the responsible person in the military and the police who can issue an order to use the helicopter, but it is not logical that there is no responsible person at the level of the Republic of Serbia, who will be able to engage in the necessary personnel, equipment, technique, and helicopters, if necessary. So I only read one part of the letter from the Association of Building Engineers of Serbia why they seek the resignation of Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic. Therefore, the SRS considers that this proposal to amend and supplement the Law did not separate the primary matter, because the primary role of this Law on Planning and Construction is to be the role of supervision above all and control of construction. So you haven't decided to correct the current law in a way that would allow the area of urbanism and construction to be properly resolved in the legislative sense. We have tried amendments to correct this legal solution and this proposal that you have submitted to the National Assembly as far as possible. It's true you didn't have a concept when you formed a government. In the case of this law, you can see exactly what concept you had. You have entered unprepared to exercise authority in this country, and of course the most harmful are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why you will be punished by Serbian citizens in the next elections. You can say you did this or what, say it one way or another, but the results of your reign are disastrous.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25459	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25460	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, firstly on the quality of the discussion testifys and the way in which the MPs are respected, when the MP does not let the lady pass, it speaks in fact of everything else. I went out on a replica. A few words only about the role of the G17 Plus party in the city government: I am a member of the city council, in charge of urbanism; about how the G17 Plus Party sees its role in the city government I don't think it takes much to talk, it's a little rude to brag about ourselves now and to talk about ourselves positively. I won't even do it. I think that how we personally and the party treat the city is best witnessed by the parliamentarians themselves who, in a few cases, address me for advice and professional assistance in the area of urbanism in Belgrade. I am pleased that some of you from the MP group who made objections from this pay phone to my account and to the party's account and the way we operate in the area of urbanism in the city confirms this. A month after I became a member of the city council, from Mr Krasic, and moreover, many MPs from the ranks of his party have called for professional help, and I especially want to point out never to abuse any of my positions; it is my pleasure to say that there is no MP to whom I have not helped. It's not about being MPs, my office is extremely open to all citizens. My office has two teams following me as a member of the city council: one team is a team of lawyers dealing with property, the other team is a team of urbanists and architects dealing with this problem. These are people who, in the afternoons twice a week, sit down for a few hours and analyze the subjects of all citizens completely free of charge, with a lot of enthusiasm. I think we've stopped counting a long time ago, it's a couple of hundred letters that these two teams have processed, and, of course, after that, I've professionally analyzed and signed and we've helped the citizens. There's a lot of abuse in this area. It is an area of urbanism where there are mafias, individual interests, wealth. I want to tell you that the shifts, given the deeply corrupt society we've been living in, have been piling up abuse in this area for decades. I see my role in the area of urbanism by moving in a positive direction of prominence. I'll be happy if my score is measured by the promiscuity. I stopped believing for a long time that I could help the percentages. I really ask that you strengthen my position, not weaken it. If you, who I express to me, a fighter for regularity, the correct procedure, a proven anti-corruption fighter, for some personal, day-to-day promotions, you're untrue from this pay phone, then I don't think this society will ever step forward in a positive direction. Anything positive that any of you from this pay phone excuse will have my absolute and total support. I totally don't care which lines the speaker is coming from fighting for justice, who's fighting for repairs in this society. Indeed, I have heard several times from this pay phone the right discussions of opposition MPs, in this case the Serbian Radical Party, as it is. (President: Time.) I was really heartbroken to help with that injustice you pointed out to me. You know very well how much I've fixed some things on your signals. So I ask you that when you speak to the people, you prove to the citizens of this booth that you know that we are all together, 250 of us here, on the same mission of positive movement. You can't put everything in the same basket, because when you're constantly making remarks on people, without criteria, citizens recognize you as people who really don't have their own personal dignity and their own personal criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25461	Mr. Djordjevic has a word, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is all this true what Mrs. Bosnjak said about this pay phone – of course it's not true. You are the government in Belgrade, G17 plus is in power with the Democratic Party. You are the most responsible for everything that is not good in Belgrade, or for what you have done well. But you didn't do any good. Of course, here in a heartwarming story you have brought forth a series of lies about this pay phone – that we or that one of our MPs was presenting some false information. I read a letter from the Association of Building Engineers of Serbia asking for the resignation of the minister of capital investment, Mr Ilic. I read a letter from the licensed members of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering that you are defending, and you know very well that the Committee on Construction and Urbanism also concluded at the session, and I read the minutes from that session where it is said, and where the Ministry has also given its opinion, that the Engineering Chamber has been working illegally. Mrs. Bosnjak, you were at that session, too. You are now telling a heartwarming story here about this speaker that you are working in the interests of the citizens of Belgrade and helping the citizens of Belgrade. You're the government in Belgrade. You are the most responsible that Belgrade has this traffic situation. Therefore, there is no difference between you and the Democratic Party. You're sharing power at the city level with them. So you can't tell a story that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25463	He's got a word on Branka Bosnjak's business.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25464	I thank anyone who gives me a chance to talk from this pay phone about the Engineering Chamber. The engineering chamber was formed under the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction. It formed a small group of engineers for the sake of its own interests and for the sake of obtaining personal financial benefit. The Serbian Chamber of Engineering in its business, from the establishment of the Chamber to the entry of this assembly, functioned by obtaining the funds of all of us licensed engineers. I must say to you, dear fellow MPs, and also to the citizens, that it was millions of euros that were in the account. I also have to tell you that these funds have been spent solely on the fees of the people who ran the Engineering Chamber, so this is the procedure that lasted until the moment of this call of Parliament's arrival. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee, Mr Radojko Obradovic, who launched the initiative and on two occasions asked for a financial report from the Chamber. All the MPs who participated in the work of this committee, including myself, supported the initiative as much as possible, and then went into the fight against the injustices that existed at that time in the Engineering Chamber. I have to tell you, and I thought some of you knew that, I don't know if, out of ignorance or infancy, you kept quiet that the only principled fighter to the end in the fight against such corruption was my pettyness. That's why I may have had a lot of inconvenience myself, but I have to say that I've put this process and this process of fighting with such an engineering chamber on my shoulders until the end. On my initiative and with the help of a large number of engineers who thought like me, but who for one reason or another were somewhere behind their backs and didn't come out first, we managed to organize an extraordinary assembly, to replace the Chamber's leadership. But, of course, you know that once a basic system is very difficult to change completely. At the head of the assembly was an honorary colleague of architect Branislav Mitrovica. It seems to me that his role changes significantly the work of that assembly, but I have to underline, when it comes to all the personnel that are, by law, found there, still most of them sitting in the Chamber. I would like to mention that Mr. Rade Obradovic has again initiated a check on the work and operations of the same Engineering Chamber. In all of this, we have a very strong support for the restoring ministry. Also, I would like to point out that again in the front line is my smallness. So it's least true to mention me as someone protecting the work of the Chamber. From this payphone I repeat very responsibly, and I also said in my presentation, I hope that colleagues who listen well to my presentation have remembered that I have regained the attention that there are over two million euros in the account of the Engineering Chamber, that these funds are not being spent. There is no real purpose drawn, possibly by any promotion of any profession, whether by making some library, whether by creating a book fund, whether by creating those or those investments. (President: Time.) ) Here, I end up with a sentence: I will fight, of course I have no power, but with my own recommendations, to use these resources by hiring young experts, that the Chamber finances the design of projects, firstly, in the recovery of all slides, and then in designing projects of all reconstructions and adaptations of abandoned facilities at the site, whether they are homes of culture, sports grounds, sports playgrounds, sports halls. That's our initiative, then. I'm not happy with the work of the Chamber, I've never protected it, a chamber like this doesn't work well, and Branka Bosnjak will advocate that her work will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25465	One piece of information for all MPs, as it is said about the work of the Chamber, in order to bring this replication thing to an end – the Committee on Urbanism is at its last session, and all MPs have received information, asking the Ministry of Capital Investments for a detailed financial report on the work of the Chamber for 2005, a plan for 2006, and reiterated the conclusion that the agreement on the Chamber's Statute is being reviewed. That's the only way to solve all the problems. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee's request from the Ministry of Capital Investments does not mean anything, because such a report either won't get it or will get it in such a form that it will not be a real picture of what is required. As president of the Transport and Communications Committee, I have been looking for reports on several occasions and I have received them as is said in Nis – round and round. Of course, I support the amendment that Mr. Djordjevic defended, which was written by Mr. Blazic, but it is the least important and I wanted to go out for it. Mrs. Bosniak, members of the SRS have never really called you for any abuses or anything like that. What you're saying about Mr. Djordjevic's relationship with the lady was an accident. What Albianic does was you should have criticized him, because he's harshly angry at the ladies; I don't know if it's his passion or his wife's, that's what you should have criticized. Secondly, why do you have the urge to defend what is indefensible? I remember you from a session of the Traffic and Connections Committee, where you discussed it very constructively, and very often we voted the same way, as you voted, so did I, or vice versa. So you didn't bring anything personal. Why now that we mention a negative phenomenon, when we mention something that's wrong, do you need to defend it? Believe that many of the things you're trying to defend are indefensible and believe that no one will defend Labus. Why do you get involved when no one touches you for it, no one said you did this or that?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25467	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 51a be added after article 51a. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25468	When Mrs. Bosnjak said it was the engineering chamber that was formed in 2003, when she began to list the characteristics of that association, I thought it was G17 plus. Of course, I respect Mrs. Bosnjak's professional qualities as well, and I think that for the urban mafia, for the construction mafia in Belgrade, she can at least bear responsibility. The others are the culprits. Bogdanovic, for example, promised in a pre-election campaign that one of his first tasks would be to bring Belgrade down to the rivers. Thanks to the professional construction of the market on the Green Wreath, one, his Green Wreath was on its way to Sava and we can expect the houses from the Green Wreath to descend to Sava very quickly. Of course, I don't want to talk about Belgrade, I'd like to talk about the law and the Ministry of Capital Investment, about how the minister misunderstood the name - capital investment, means, as much investment and as much capital as possible. Of course, he's not here today, I suppose he's opening up some tenders or he's got those who need to arrange concessions for the already built Belgrade-Nish highway, or the ones from Sweden and the Netherlands, where those trains were from that imported them. By the way, in front of Serbian citizens, ten years of younger trains, Croatia bought from the same country for two and a half million euros per composition. We paid ten years of older trains three and a half million euros per composition and, of course, we went diesel to get them, because they were infractions, they weren't even able to get here and then they were in Shinvoz - Zrenjanin for six months, and they were bought past all the procedures, because they had to be imported. Let's get back to the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, if you adopt it, will prevent the municipal mafia from getting rich, petting money. It is temporary facilities, which are normally in every local self-government, in every municipality of the city and meet some of the needs of the citizens of the municipality. It's a very different story when you have ten empty corners where you can buy newspapers, cigarettes, any product that sells, it's much simpler that you can buy something to eat on the way home. The Zemun municipality shared 1,500 locations for the construction of temporary construction facilities in the first term; about 500 remained. Tried with newspapers, didn't go, started with healthy food, with fast food, mostly to meet the needs of citizens of the municipality; then came that "buldozer revolution", that flood picked up everything alive, cleaned up first by four or five bars and objects from every neighborhood to show the others how it would be solved. Of course, temporary building permits should be issued in order to disable the mafia. Then they entered every kiosk with – good afternoon, I am from the municipality, that your kiosk we will not lift today costs you so much and so much. That's what you do on local self-government. Look at New Belgrade, they cleaned up the entire parts of New Belgrade and only those who didn't want to pay. There's only one facility left, and that martyr has to agree to pay. This is about the mob in local self-government. Of course, this amendment should be adopted which reads: "For objects which, given their purpose and location, cannot be aligned with the urban plan, i.e. in areas for which such a plan has not been adopted, a temporary building permit will be issued if they meet the requirements of stability, security and hygiene-sanitary protection. "All three conditions that close that cycle are required to be met. "The objects referred to in Article 1 may, on the basis of a provisional permit, be used until the land is brought to the intended purpose... ". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have so many lands in Belgrade, and if there were any plans for certain parts of the city, it was planned for some purposes that another 50 years would not come. You know there are planned airports in Belgrade, you know that all of New Belgrade and today there are swamps, no matter what 50 years people live there in blocks. So, there are some plans once drawn, and no intentions have been brought in. That land can be used just for this. This was in the law, so Schumartz's law erased this. So I suggest that the possibility of issuing temporary permits be re-emerged in the law. These facilities would be used until land is brought to the intended purpose, i.e. to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for their compliance with the prescribed urban and other conditions until an appropriate urban plan is adopted. As a result of the fact that land planning in some cases takes tens of years, it is necessary for facilities in such territories to be treated through temporary permits. In our current practice of issuing temporary permits, we have not seen any shortcomings and problems, so we see no reason not to allow temporary authorisations to be re-issued. A new member has been proposed in this direction. I suggest that in the voting day we adopt article 51a and put it into this otherwise bad forester law, so we can at least give it a little bit of courtesy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25469	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 51, seems to me to be the only concrete member who would indeed, if these two amendments were accepted by colleagues Blazic and Momir Markovic, have some meaning for the citizens of Serbia, which is why we must be passing laws. In Article 51, you have well predicted that these facilities which do not have a building permit under the prescribed conditions can be connected to the electrical, thermal or telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage temporarily, too. This is both human and practical, because it's been terrible what the last few years have been such objects, where people have been forced to live, because no one would live in an unfinished facility and in an object without electricity and water to have any conditions to live in a better and more conditional object. I mean, this article in 51 is good in this last part, but I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment. You predicted that this applied to buildings whose construction, or reconstruction, was completed without a building permit until 13 May 2003. Then why did you not accept this amendment to refer to objects that were built until the entry into force of this law, because you had already provided for the possibility of legalisation and such objects. Also, this amendment to Article 51 that we wanted to add to Article 51a is indeed something that is so present in practice. If you have an object without a building permit and if no urban conditions have been done for that facility or if the facility is in such a place that urban conditions cannot be brought in, why does the facility not intend to normally join the infrastructure until the land is brought in? He's here, so he's here. It won't be torn down, at least not in some normal community with normal authority. People live, so why not allow them some normal conditions, of course, with solutions, where they will be obliged and aware of the fact that when they are brought into custody, that the facility will not be legalized and that they will not be able to charge any costs. Here you say - the amendment is not accepted because units of local self-government, which are competent to adopt an urban plan, or which are authorized to edit space on their territory, are able to coordinate where it is possible to illegally build objects with the rules of regulation and construction, i.e. urban planning. We all know how long it takes local self-government to do and bring these plans; I never understood why it takes so long, because I think it can be done much faster and more efficiently. We've got the situation we've got. From here on out, I suggest to Mr. Lonchar, when he's passing the law on the capital, to transfer these jobs to local self-government, so we'll show in Zemun how quickly we can do these plans. Since this is the last amendment to this law, I'd like to say a few sentences at all about the law. So, you boasted that you accepted a number of amendments from the SRS parliamentary group meant nothing, and especially that you selectively chose amendments, just so you could say that some amendments were accepted. If these amendments and amendments to almost all our colleagues are not accepted in the voting day, I would say, from other parliamentary groups, because the amendments are much better than the government's bill itself... With amendments so accepted, maybe this law would make some sense, especially if we knew it was temporary, as the minister told us. I don't expect you to do that. You will pass another law that will essentially mean nothing. I repeat what I said yesterday and this morning, with the law passed, we will not allow Serbia's citizens to obtain construction permits faster and easier, we will not allow citizens of Serbia to obtain permits faster, easier and cheaper for buildings without a building permit. Several colleagues here said they were expecting Minister Velju Ilic. Of course, Mr. Velimir Ilic had to be here. The fact that I drew his attention yesterday to the statement he made... Velimir Ilic told reporters about the media – what he told me, as minister, to steal five kilometers of highways, so in Smederev, I paved several streets. That's what I reminded him yesterday and asked him how many times he stole the highway, and he didn't pave the way for any street in Serbia. For our Sasha, that was for Smeder. And Mr. Velimir Ilic, like this, from the place of the flood, barely looking at the saying – that you are not ashamed to bring it up. I really don't see why I should be embarrassed. Iliæ steals and I'm embarrassed. I didn't vote for him as a minister, nor does he belong to the SRS, I really don't see what I should be ashamed of. Mr. Velimir Ilic has no right to behave like an offended bride. He must sit here and listen to what the MPs will tell him. Although, today, it's possible, it cures hangovers, since last night he had a guest in Chačka, so he had a lot of work to do. I don't know if the Croat dumped him with that heels. Also, I don't know what the Ministry of Capital Investment has to do with these events that take place in Chačka both last night and before last – The spring is singing. Of course, we have nothing against Sleeping Spring, we have nothing against a beautiful event both last night and night, I don't understand the role that the Ministry of Capital Investments is in, because on television I saw Vela Ilic share some awards there. The fact that he was born in Chačka really has nothing to do with it, there were many smart, honorable people born in Chačka, much more worthy to appear on that stage than Velja Ilic. That's where Velija Ilic was found. I'd understand if he was doing that... (President: Time.) I end up, thank you, that he did it at the time when he was president of the municipality, but in the role of the Minister of Capital Investments I really don't understand. I'm asking you gentlemen to tell Velija Ilic, since I guess the day after tomorrow, when we have amendments to these counterguarantees to come and tell us what role he was doing, how much capital he has allocated from capital investments for these manifestations and whether you think, or whether he thinks it's okay. Did we adopt the budget that he makes the national money of such a event or builds roads, so let's see also the responsibility of those in the government who made the Veli available half of the republican budget, so he "drinks half, half the Charcos gives".
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25471	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The fifth item of the agenda will continue after the break, which lasts until 14.40 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We're continuing our afternoon work today's session. We'll start in a minute, I'm sorry the break took a little bit longer, I didn't have the exact details. Please accept my apology. Please allow representatives of the Ministry of Mining and Energy to come in. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Dragoljub Stamenković, Blagoje Krajinović, Milorad Mirčić, Milan Vesenović, Stefan Zankov, Tomislav Penezić, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Đorđević, Dragan Zivkov, Zoran Krasić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Stevica Dedjanski, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Buha, Darko Glisić, Sulejman Spaho, Ljubomir Kragović, Milovanovic and Radiša Ilic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Assembly of the Republic of Vojvodina and, on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Finance. In accordance with Article 146(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as untimely, rejected the amendments of the People's MPs Radmil Milosevic to the article 16 and Dusan Prophetovic. 13th and 16. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the same time, I would like to inform you that today we will only be working until the debate is concluded in the particulars of this law, that is, the fifth agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25473	Mr. President, dear colleagues, I wanted to inform the National Assembly before the debate was launched that the Committee on Industry opened the question of Article 46 when considering the draft law, with the possibility that the Committee, acting unanimously to the Rules of Procedure, should submit an amendment to this article. A meeting of the Committee was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, who unfortunately could not have required interpretations related to this member, and concluded on the Committee that the Ministry would, as soon as possible, forward a written interpretation of this member before the start of this debate, on the basis of which the Committee could use its business right to submit an amendment to this article. Since we haven't received, at least after the Committee's secretary's assurance, that interpretation, I would ask that, if possible, we hear an interpretation of the details at this time before the debate begins, and I'll just remind you in a few words of what this is about. So, Article 46. The proposal for this law provides that the Law on Payment and Guidance of Assets for the Use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and production of oil and gas (i.e. the 1990 law) ceases to apply at the end of the period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law. You see what the uncertainty is: the law on the use of goods of general interest regulated the question of the obligations of energy operators to produce electricity located in the territory of certain municipalities and which therefore pay certain financial resources under this law to those municipalities. When this law ceases to apply and that obligation ceases. I must say that the Mining Act, whose changes and additions are now under consideration, regulates the issue of compensation, but only for those municipalities and territories where mineral raw materials are exploited. The law does not cover the question of compensation for those energy operators working on electricity production, conditionally speaking, has nothing to do with the exploitation of mineral raw materials, but on various other grounds they have a obligation to pay compensation to municipalities. I'll give you an example of the municipality where our largest power generation capacities are located, it's the Obrenovac municipality. According to current information in this municipality, by virtue of this law, a monthly payment is made on behalf of this obligation of three to seven million dinars, depending on the amount of electricity produced, as it is the legal obligation of the manufacturer to pay compensation to the kilowatt-hours produced according to the law. It's about serious means. The second thing is that in this municipality these funds are used in completely non-purpose ways, so these funds have also been financed by NGOs, bought by apartments and cars, but this is not the subject of this debate. I would ask, that we could establish our full attitude towards the law, and especially towards this member, to hear definitely interpretation, since there were certain indications that this obligation is now being taken over by some other laws, but we did not get convincing interpretations about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25474	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. If I understand correctly, the Committee did not finally submit an amendment for all of this. Please, we'll ask the Ministry to give you and the board an interpretation. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25475	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act reads "Article 1 is deleted". For what? The existing Mining Act defines what the Mining Act refers to, the basic provisions define the concept of mining goods, namely the terms and conditions of and the way the mining goods are exploited in the country and on its surface, on the river or lake floor or below, as well as the construction, use and maintenance of mining facilities. Paragraph 2 reads: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the exploitation of sand, gravel and water-flow troughs, springs, abandoned troughs and areas of threatened erosion, which do not contain interference from other useful mineral raw materials. "The Proposer of Amendments and Supplements to the Law suggests replacing the term "real treasure" with the term "mineral raw materials". According to that logic, the Mining Act should also be called a law on mineral raw materials or on the use of mineral raw materials, especially what we will later, through a debate on amendments, see what is left out of this law, what the law should apply to. When I spoke in principle, I gave you an example of something from the mineral treasure that only after extraction, in another stage of processing becomes mineral raw material. This is also the case with oil, which only in the second phase of processing, through fractional distillation becomes mineral raw material, or does not become, but while located in the country it represents a mineral treasure. Here's another example that should be convincing why the term "real treasure" should be kept, why it shouldn't be so easy to give it up. You may not know that aluminum is one of the most widespread metals in the earth’s crust. Of course, they didn't exploit it so much because it's been deployed in the measles and its beds aren't so common, but wherever, even on agricultural land, you bury a little land, there's aluminum in there. It does not represent mineral raw material in the form of it being distributed like this, but perhaps the times that are ahead will bring new technologies, where it will be possible to get aluminum from such raw materials and then it will represent the mineral treasure. I'll tell you about it, since it's my opinion that changers and supplementers haven't figured out what ore treasure is and how broader it is to the concept of mineral raw material, why it didn't have to be changed. It would look about like if, for example, the Sports Society "Partizan" in a change of statute that defines what the Sports Society "Partizan" is to use the term "Fubol Club Partizan" instead of the term "Sport Society", where you are all other clubs that have been excluded by the Sports Society. There are many more examples and reasons why the term "real treasure" was to be kept, but when it went through the amendments later, it is clear to me why it is done, because in Articles 14 and 15 you have already cleared the space that if you give someone a contract or in any other way the possibility of exploiting mineral raw materials, then you will not be able to bind it to a kind of mineral raw material or anything else. Then he will use everything he can to explore and exploit, all of it will be mineral raw materials, because we do not have the term "red treasure" and let's say, "you got to exploit this raw material and you didn't get to exploit the total ore treasure." There is one more thing, we do not always know what is in the crust of the earth and why the legislator should keep the mineral treasure. You may not have heard from the Ministry, but you could have asked around the Geomagnetic Office for the so-called so-called evil anomaly. It's an area around Zlota, a village in Bor municipality, where there's an area of maybe a square mile where the compass doesn't point north. In addition to the cock anomaly in Russia, which is a huge area, perhaps the surface of Serbia, where the compass can't show because of the presence of ore magnetite, in this part we don't know why the compass doesn't show the direction of the north, or needles on the compass. In 1999, actions were taken to examine what this evil anomaly is. However, after that, there was a shift of authorities and a detailed examination never occurred, but the assumption is that there is something there that is an ore treasure. Then, if you don't define and give someone that can exploit mineral raw materials, you can also get into a situation where, when researching potential deposits of mineral raw materials, there are archaeological sites that are important and that can have very rare valuables in them, and then you can't consider it a mineral treasure or a treasure state, but you can consider it in this narrow sense, as you say, mineral raw materials. You can see why the term "mineral raw materials" hasn't changed yet. There is a decision on concessions, where three locations at the Black Summit near Bor are given to a concessionary for research and exploitation of copper or mineral raw materials. Regardless of these three locations that are given, shooting, drilling and research are being done both outside and three locations. In search of copper, they go wider, because you did not specify which mineral raw materials are subject to concessions, but were left to be hit by helicopters and at all possible locations are doing research, probably preparing for exploitation. If they find something else that is not mineral raw materials, let's say it's not mineral coveline or some other copper mineral, then you'll get into a situation that they'll exploit what they come up with, because you're throwing out the term "red treasure" and then, practically, everything they come up with you can think of as mineral raw material. I'd like the promoter to keep this and, subsequently, to the amendments to the SRS, to accept that this term remains in circulation, because this will later show you that this term should have been kept.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25476	Anyone else on the same amendment? MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25477	Dear President, honourable MPs, perhaps this topic under this amendment will come out of the agenda a little bit, that is, what is the subject of the amendment, but life issues are such that we MPs must respond at certain times. Before I move on to what I came forward for, I would fully support Dragan Jovanovic's discussion, a fellow member of the SPS parliamentary group. All that he said about Obrenovac in a smaller volume is also true of Kostolac, a city that is strong in energy potential and which is yet to get the right place in Serbia's Elektroprivred; I don't mean by chance the right place in the EPS, but to be treated in view of everything it provides to the EPS. I say, life's questions make us MPs have to react, too. I was very sorry to be in Bor on Thursday, it was April 6th, and the principle debate on the Mining Act was on Wednesday or Thursday, where I took part in the stands where several hundred citizens from Bor and surrounding villages, above all from the village of Zlot, were extremely concerned about what was going on around Bor. They didn't ask questions about the situation that Bor's been in, given that there's been a lot of difficulty living there for the last few years, and the question is, what's going to happen to the combination? What made these citizens go along with the signing of certain petitions is certainly negligent to the current situation of what is there. I will try to explain to you in the shortest possible way, that the entire public hears that more than 4,000 inhabitants are in the area – the village of Zlot, the largest village settlement in the Bora municipality, are performing geologically and other works, which are claimed to be uninhabitable, according to the feasibility study. Also, 1,800 residential buildings near Lake Borsko are not treated in a feasibility study. It is certain that everything that happens, which is that a helicopter conducts research, and nowhere in the local self-government is presented to the fact that this research has all the necessary permits, and the harassment of the public and that population, does not go hand in hand to the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the executive body of this legislative assembly. The area where the mining body called Tilva nugra is considered a significant economic and tourist potential of the municipality of Bor and Serbia. For these reasons, the construction of a large tourist facility, a complex called "The Jelen Ridgens", which should be a future alternative for both Bor and all surrounding settlements, began. Even the Bor Machine-Made School was transformed into a Food and Tourism School several years ago, where children are trained who, despite the fact that Bor has left three or four thousand people over the past few years, still have certain conditions, that is, a certain perspective. For all that is natural wealth, and it was the idea to form a national park that would primarily rely on Zagutica, the Black Summit, the Bor, the Borsko Lake, this research will be a major problem, and that research will contribute to making eastern Serbia, with a certain tourist potential, even poorer than it is. Current and future works will endanger the water streams whose springs are in this area. First of all, it is about the Brestovac Banja, the Gambigrad Banja, the Borsko Lake, as well as the Beljavin River, which is the main supplier of the pine municipality with drinking water. Experts warn of drastic quality reduction and even the disappearance of these thermal waters. The pollution of drinking water would be absolutely certain and without the possibility of alternative solutions. What is very important to say in this further part is that the investor of these works is not at all legitimate, i.e. local self-government in Bora, which lies ahead of the new mayoral elections, which will be, if I remember it well on 22 May, is not at all in the situation of knowing which investor he is; the investor is illegal, illegal, or never presented a decision in which and how he got to do so. According to the findings, the tender, which is being prepared and possibly called, is made of incompetent persons, i.e. it can be suspected that the interests of citizens in the context of a tender for a particular justification have not been implemented at all. I would ask the representatives of the Ministry, and we will be able to communicate, and above all, by the arrival of the petition of those citizens of Bor, that through the inspection bodies of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and all state authorities, all that is currently going on in Boro and the environment. I believe that we will get a positive answer, but the bottom line is that one area that is important, which once supported Serbia, I mean, first of all, Bor and Majdanpek, comes into a situation that and what little comparative advantages it has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25478	By the Rules of Procedure or about the amendment? On the occasion of the amendment, please. The election for President of the Municipality of Bor has been announced for May 28th.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25479	I would refer to the previous presentation of a respected colleague and I would say that the entire Bor municipality had a lot of beautiful natural goods. The mining operations began in 1903, and the explosion that was going on at that time, more than 100 years ago, broke one part. This part has been maximumly damaged in the previous period since 1945, when the area, i.e. the Borska River, was polluted, large ruins were made, and then the country's grotesque and surrounding Bora were destroyed. As far as these concessions are concerned, I think the government and the rest of the ministry did it quite legally and the commissions were quite competent, so you don't have to worry. As far as the Black Summit is concerned, when your leader flew to the Black Summit and an illegal hotel was never completed, then there was no compensation for environmental, or environmental, and now there is an alternative for worn out ore beds in the city itself, or in the vicinity of the city, we are now putting everything under the glass, something that is perfectly quality and competently done.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25480	Replica, Mr. Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25481	I must say that I am an MP from the Fireman, but that I know very well Eastern Serbia, because I lived in the Frog until I was 12 years old. I don't know what you've been hurt on the basis of my discussion, if I've come here representing 300 citizens of Bor and surrounding settlements, your fellow citizens, who wrote this to me, sent it to me by fax, and I will certainly be the promoter of the petition that will be delivered to my address. Unfortunately, at your address, that's although you're from Bor, I don't know where you come from, that you claim something is true, so you're talking against 300 citizens of Zlot and Bor. As for the leader who made something, I don't see any reason for you to object if a few million euros are spent. I had a chance to see the settlement, or hotel complex "The Jelen Ridjensi", that would be a Dick not only for Serbia but also for Europe. So if you're against the development of Bor, or the Black Summit, with such a complex that might be stronger than the Copalnik, then I'm really surprised that you don't represent your territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25482	National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25483	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the law also reads as "Article 2 is deleted". Why? What Article 2 has defined is what is actually a mineral treasure, now it's just changed. Instead of "red treasure", the term "mineral raw materials" is used, as a consequence of Article 1 of these amendments and additions proposals. Finally, in Article 2(2), these mineral raw materials are practically not defined in a valid manner, according to the Serbian Radical Party. Look what it's all about. The current law says: "The mine treasure, as a natural good in the state property, can be used under conditions and in a manner established by law. "All of this is retained, only instead of "red treasure" stands for "mineral raw materials," and "this law" instead of "legal." "For the use of the mine, compensation is paid, in accordance with the law. "It now says: "For the use of mineral raw materials, compensation is paid, in accordance with the law. "But what is the change, which I was talking about when the subject of this law was in principle, is that in point 3 is said: "Mineral raw materials, within the meaning of this law, are considered all inorganic and organic raw materials in a solid, liquid and gasy state," etc. Now you have mineral raw materials in a plastic state, such as baker's clay, which only requires thermal processing practically and you get building material, and it is stated that all raw materials of which can be obtained are practically mineral raw materials. How will you now consider baker's clay, which is not in solid, liquid, or in a gas state, by the provisions of this Article of the 2nd mineral raw material? Of course you won't be able to. That's when I said there was another form of aggregate states, like plasma states. It did not exist in the previous law, nor in the applicable law. Why you shouldn't have done that. Do you see how much more serious the mining treasure has treated the existing law, it says: "The mine treasure, in the sense of this law, is considered all organic and inorganic mineral raw materials in solid, dispersive... "; and if I were to tell you now about powders, especially dust metallurgy, to see that there are fine powders that are measured by nanometers and that do not behave as solid, nor as liquid, nor as carbonic, nor as a state of plasma, then you would see that this "breathing" has a very great meaning when defining the mineral treasure. So, in a loose, plastic, liquid and gasy state. It is then said to be "or in natural stages located in the primary bed, in applications, mining digs" etc. What my colleagues were saying about the amendment to Article 1 before me is probably why you threw out an ore treasure and it's becoming clear to you, just mentioning one part of what was put into concessions, how much attention did it give here? Indeed, the citizens of Bora, the public of Bora and the professional public, unfortunately not only the citizens of Bora, have no information on how these three locations were released at the Black Summit. What was heard on the Industry Committee a few months ago is that the price for research and exploitation is two euros per ar, which will say 200 euros per hectare. It's an area of rich forests; it's enough to cut down that forest and get rich, it doesn't have to do anything else. What is where the existing law is violated, and you prepare these amendments and additions to legalize it – that is, that and what is prescribed as concessions, do not adhere to the location, so that the research work on the site Tilvas and Minesk, which is otherwise located by the air line hundreds of meters, and this way for miles, which was not at all the subject of the concession. Whoever approved it, no one in Bora knows. Of course, local television can't talk about it, but that's why RTB CEO Bor can come out and say that there's some privatisation coming up, and yet we don't know when the tender's being called and that in 80 days, 2,500 people should be out of work. Those who turn themselves in willingly shall have the advantage, and those who do not go astray will be forced. Again, Bora's public doesn't explain, no one's answering the Ministry to say what's the point and why with these amendments and the additions of the law came now, why they're being potent. I'm going to try to explain further, through the explanation of the other amendments, that in fact everything is designed to go into depravity all the natural wealth or ore treasure we have. I will have time through some other amendments to show you even what happens to the production of copper in Bora, as it is compared to a period of ten years ago, what production is compared to the period of sanctions and wars, what production is compared to the period of the 70s and 80s, and why it happens. I think that this law, under this Article 2, where it insists that the term "real treasure" is eliminated, is precisely intended to sell very cheaply everything that we have as future potentials and to come into a situation where we become import-dependent on raw materials that we can produce ourselves, or from metals or non-metals that we can produce ourselves, by making someone else use it, export, and we will be forced to import and pay at a much more expensive price. What's most important is that we won't be in a position to profit anything from our natural resources as a country, and you could see that in the case of the sale of springs and springs of quality water etc. So much for this amendment, there'll be more opportunities for me to talk a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25484	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Blagoja Krajinović submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25485	You can see that our intentions, when it comes to the influence of the law, were very fair and that the amendments are not like that, that we're asking for the removal of all the members you've proposed. There are some of these amendments and additions that could be good, but that's mostly because the existing law, unfortunately, is bad, that it can't even be considered a mining law. What is expected of the Mining Act? To regulate the state's relationship with natural goods, especially mineral goods, to regulate the mutual relationship between the state and those dealing with the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the mutual relations between local self-government and those which exploit mineral raw materials or mineral goods in its territory and relations with each other in this respect, financially and each other, between state and local self-government, government and local self-government. By making changes to the existing law, you have entered into defining areas such as mining measurements; these are special items at the mining college, very complex and you cannot possibly enroll in several members. Then, you have defined the details of what it is to exploit mineral raw materials, which is why you always risk practically getting into a situation, since in this field the technology of exploitation, extraction and research of mineral raw materials is changing, to leave something out, not to predict what can happen in the future. One huge area of mining called mineral raw materials preparation you completely threw out, one member you shut down, and the processing of mineral raw materials, as one procedure that is also used, by this bill you threw out. What are we looking for in Article 4? Article 4 paragraph 1 changes and reads – after the word "opening" the word "worked out" is added. Article 4(1) explains what is the exploitation of mineral raw materials and says: "The exploitation of mineral raw materials, within the meaning of this law, is considered to be the execution of works on opening, preparing, developing and excavating beds, as well as the transport of mineral raw materials and carrying out other mining works in the country and on its surface." You've thrown practical work out of this definition. Why does it need to come back and stay the way it is? So all of this, since the opening, preparation and development, has its place and those involved in the exploitation of mineral raw materials know how important the stage of development is, so, after preparing the stage of development for further exploitation of mineral raw materials. It's obvious that whoever suggested this amendment has no knowledge. It's a normal procedure for exploiting mineral raw materials, and without processing it, it can't. The development represents one technological phase in mining. It was not only inserted to be a term, that the law would be wheezing, but it was a new phase in the cave exploitation, first of all, and that, as stated in the explanation of the amendments, when the pit was divided by objects on horizons by height and revira in the horizontal plane. So whoever threw out the elaborate didn't know how to get in the underground exploitation, when it comes to the cave exploitation, they're working out, of course, the beds of the cave rooms, and they need to be returned. If you are in a position to accept this amendment without consulting anyone, accept it immediately. If you're not, you should definitely get it back into the law, because the law with this is practically incomplete. You'll see, if you adopt it in this area, that one whole technological phase in the cave exploitation will practically put it outside the law, it won't be in the law. But, I see, that doesn't concern you, because there are only seven caves in Serbia, instead of, like, sometimes, more than 30-40, and the tendency is that those seven, which primarily refer to coal exploitation, except for lead and zinc mines, are shut down. You probably assume there won't even be a mining in the future, so you don't need to work it out. This really does not exist, such a stage, in these spears when it comes to these carbon spears, which are interesting for the state, primarily because of electricity production, but in mining in this sense should leave the development, even if the ministry, or the government, invests money in the opening of new coal mines, above all. I spoke in principle, which is why – because of the preservation of natural resources, above all the forests in Serbia, we are not coming into a situation where we found ourselves this spring because of the rain, that there is an enormous erosion of terrain, rinks, etc. It's all the result of cutting down the forest that's been running at a huge rate over the past few years. Forests cannot be restored, and by opening mines, and by those investigated, who once existed, where there are certified beds, could be prevented at least from cutting the forest to that degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25486	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25487	The amendment to article 7 submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic says the words "and preparation" are added in article 7 following the words "description". When I said that you had completely thrown out of one piece a technological phase, which is working out, you're keeping it in article 7, and it's really unclear who is and how he handled the writing of laws on amendments and additions to the Mining Act in this way. In one part, you've thrown out the work, and now it's showing up again that it's necessary to get in and there's and there's preparation, and it's working and it's opening. As Mr. Vesenović stated in his explanation, this represents, and you can ask about those who have great experience through working in mines (diplomed mining engineers, mining technicians and those who deal with this), A, B, C, in mining and this as you predicted by law looks like you are not building a house in order, but you are trying from the roof to the ground to get to what mining works are and what is considered mining works in the sense of this law. So, after the word "description", the words "preparation" should stand, so the right member should read: "opening, working and preparing." If you accept what you have proposed, or if you do not accept the amendment, you will have the words "preparation and opening" and they are mutually modified order. This means that you will not be able to achieve what the Mining Act should achieve, because the works of opening and working out, when it comes to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, are investment works, while the preparatory work burdens excavations when mineral raw materials are already being used and they are considered as costs that do not belong to investment works. So, if you dropped this, it would be necessary to accept Mr. Veselinović's amendment and return it to the law if there is a possibility. If you don't do this, it's really gonna be hard for this law, if you adopt it in the form you've imagined, to be considered a law in the right sense of that word, it's going to have to happen very quickly to its changes and additions. If the SRS comes soon to power, and it will happen, we will have to pass a new mining law or a law on the exploitation of the mine treasure or just a law on the exploitation of mineral raw materials. If a mining law is passed, it will only describe what I have already said: the country's relationship with those involved in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the mutual relationship between local self-government and businesses, and local self-government and state, without entering professional and scientific analysis by members and the definition of what mining works include, what they represent, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25488	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25489	In Article 8(1), paragraph 1 is deleted. The words "in point 2)" shall be replaced by the words "in Article 8(2)". Indeed, when it comes to this member, I think there's been a technical error that hasn't been discovered in time. I don't have a report from the board of directors on whether or not he was considering it. Generally, the amendment should refer to the fact that the definition of objects and facilities has been rejected in practice by the term "device", so since a large number of devices are used in mining that do not represent either objects or plants, this should not have been excluded from Article 8. Of course, the gold treasure was replaced with mineral raw materials again. Again, it is a matter of not knowing the technique and technology of the legislator, because it is a category of means to work. So, mining facilities, installations and devices, within the meaning of this law, are considered objects and facilities, without devices, and machines and devices are classified under point 2), intended for all phases of the technological process of underground and surface exploitation of mineral raw materials and for the preparation of mineral raw materials. Here's an example of Stefan Zankov cited as something that would represent a device: a steel protective grid on the mine window can be placed, but it doesn't have to, which depends on the technology of gravitating ore down to a lower level. So, this device can be set up and it doesn't have to be, but it has to be defined what devices are, number one in point 8) the devices are out and it should know what devices are, without which of course they can, but if there's no need to throw out the terms then they should be held back and we should have the right meaning or the right interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25490	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know what's going on within the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but I can't believe we're already discussing the second law in particular today, and there's no minister in this room. I think it's high time the government got serious and spent these last days with dignity and the way it was expected and acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act says that, after Article 12 of the basic law, a new chapter is added – the mining agency, and a new Article 12a, which reads: "The mining agency is educated, as a special organisation for the implementation of professional activities related to the achievement of the objectives set out in the strategy for the management of mineral raw materials of the Republic of Serbia" etc. Then at nine points, it's listed what all that agency you're planning to set up with this law is supposed to do. Of course, I must state the principled principled position of the Serbian Radical Party against the formation of agencies. Everything we've talked about so far about agencies about all the laws - and I don't suppose there's any law that's been passed here without predicting any agency, any special commission, etc. – turns out to be absolutely correct; either those agencies do not do their job or do not comply with the deadlines laid down by law. Serbian citizens also have problems precisely because of your agencies, and the essence is here, as so far, that these agencies are formed to strengthen the government of Vojislav Kostunica, i.e. to place people from a new coalition at the top of agencies. It is obvious that you now have some need for such an agency, because you probably need to meet some more needs, given your lax congregation majority, regardless of how much you boast about the media that you've never been more persistent and that you've never had a firmer majority. Then I ask you why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to disband the Parliament of the Municipality of Novi Pazar, if we know that there was no reason for such a thing, since an initiative was launched to vote non-confidentially on President Sulejman Ugljanin. Of course, I stress that we do not intend to side with Sulejman Ugljanin or Rasim Ljajic. We simply advocate a principled relationship and wonder how someone like the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Labus, can say that the government has made a scandalous decision and then sign the same decision. As far as we're concerned, it's primarily immoral, inconsistencies, but that's Mr. Labus' problem, and I'd say Mr. Minister Naumov, who's not here today. That's why I mentioned this now, because Minister Naumov was in the paper yesterday, and the day before in Nis, I said that what Mr. Labus said had nothing to do with it, because, says Mr. Naumov, the state cannot make a scandalous decision. Who's right about that, whether Labus when he says it's a scandalous decision or Naumov when he says the state can't make a scandalous decision, it will be decided by Serbian citizens. I'd tell Mr. Naumov that he's here, and this is how I tell him that he's made a scandalous decision, too, and he made a scandalous position a few days ago when he explained the power collection. Notingly, Serbian citizens are well aware that from the Friday-October "buldozer revolution" to today's current in Serbia has accumulated 10 times. That Mr. Naumov says it is high time and that he will push for the price of energy in Serbia to reach an economic level, a European level. It is scandalous, in conditions in which Serbian citizens live, when Serbia's citizens continue to be fired every day, when it collects everything, when wages fall, when pensions fall realistically, when crime and corruption in Serbia is growing and increasingly taking hold. Today we heard that the arrest of crisis chiefs of the five-octobar revolution began. They say Goran Kljajevic was arrested today, and this means that preparations for Mladjan Dinkic, Vladan Batic, Miki Savicevic and other crisis chiefs who have been entering various businesses and institutions are being arrested. I recall that years ago we said that Goran Kljajevic, then the president of the Chamber of Commerce, and by the time the President of the Trade Court (there was a change in the name of the court), as head of the crisis staff with the Surcinian clan, fell into the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, that he had literally taken the stamps, the book of the court, all the documentation since the then head of the Milena Arežina court. Since then, Goran Kljajevic has been burning and burning in bankruptcy, registration, printing; everything that has happened in that area suspiciously, where there was unclear who was listed as the director of a company, old, new, everything under suspicious circumstances, there was too much, everything was under cover and under the conductor's stick Goran Kljajevic. From October 5th to the day today, I hope there has never been an opportunity that has been related to this and when the judicial debate has been debated, and we Serbian radicals have not talked about the necessity to remove Goran Kljajevic from the judiciary. We wrote entire studies on the Mercedes-Benz affair, where Goran Kljajevic was the main actor of the affair. There was, of course, Biljana Radovanovic. You laughed when we mentioned Goran Kljajevic, and now you smile when I mention Biljana Radovanovic. She is the prosecutor of the Fourth District Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and when you find out in the next day that she has been arrested, then you will bow your head like today when we talk about Goran Kljajevic. There's this Nenad Milic, then the deputy police minister. So, all the five-eyed first fighters. Now, the time has come to realize what we of the SRS have been saying since that October 5, 2000. It's that date that you marked as the beginning of some new era or, even better, as the beginning of the world, because everything that was before that didn't exist for you and you didn't admit it. Today, according to information that came out, along with the five-octobar crisis chief, some Miki and Milenko Brasnevic were arrested, and they are the owners of some Eco Trade firm. What are they characteristic of? I would like to have any information as to whether they were already heard by the investigative judge and whether, within their statements, they announced that Dragan Sutanovac had recruited them, and that is the other tycoon, Boris Tadic. His first tycoon is Dragan Gilas. Dragan Sutanovac recited these Brasnevic by taking their plasma televisions for himself and for Boris Tadic, so they are sitting in front of TV screens today and waiting to hear in the news that Brasnovici told the truth about that racketeering. As a result, it should also be the arrest of Dragan Sutanovac as a racketeer. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what has come to the public today should serve you as a science that what we Serbian radicals say about this pay phone and in public at all is indeed true and that sometimes you have to accept that truth and that at some point, you will see even within the current government, there is always a reason to face such criminals. Of course, it will come out as to why these people are arrested, when they will be and whether others are arrested, whether it is personal matters, because indeed, if the government's position is to finally start arresting the heads of crisis headquarters and if Goran Kljajevic is arrested, there is no reason to waste time not to do the same with Mladjan Dinkic. We will see, time will show what the real intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is. The Government of the Republic of Serbia's intention, when it comes to Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act is the arrest of someone else who could go before the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in order to stay in power for another day, and that someone is likely to get a good place in this agency. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have proposed to delete this member and in my explanation that if an agency is being introduced, as you have provided for in Article 12a, then a mining body should be abolished at the Ministry of Mining, then two mining institutes and a sienna of small private design organisations, as well as two mining colleges, in Belgrade and Bor. What's in the explanation is not our sincere intention to abolish these two colleges, but to show you how far you go to put one agency in these nine points in charge of all of what these institutions are doing listed in the light of this amendment. You really need to define yourself: either the agency or all of these organs that already exist. I know that you who represent the congregation majority will not accept this. Minister Naumov obviously doesn't care, he's probably calculating somewhere on the European electricity price and other energy sources, to surprise Serbian citizens, because he said he would invest all his abilities in choosing for the economic price of energy. God, I don't know who's going to pay him, where the Serbian citizens are going to pay for it, but I'm sure they remembered that sentence well, as they remembered for a long time, remember that statement by Kori Udovicki, when she was in his place, that whoever couldn't pay for the electricity sell the apartment and pay for the electricity. Kori Udovicki and those who supported her then passed as they passed in the last elections; the same fate, and worse, awaits those who will vote for this bill, for such a proposal, for the foolish ideas of Minister Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25492	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25493	I think the most important amendments to the existing law are given by deleting Article 14 and Article 15 of the existing law. I tried to avoid it by amendment to Article 14 where I say that Article 14 is deleted, because this article provides for the erasure of existing Articles 14 and 15. I have to tell the public what those two members of the existing law were referring to. In fact, Article 14 speaks of mineral raw materials being given to use by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't even have to know now what part of the territory is being betrayed, which is mineral raw materials that are potentially being used, because the agency was founded, so the government has a parallel body, which with the government doesn't have to benefit at all. Usually any agency when set up, it's said to be an organ that doesn't depend on anyone, a parallel organ. Therefore, the government will, on its own initiative, have no insight into what is given and under what conditions under concessions, but this member predicted that this was given by the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that act determines the type of mineral raw material given for use. I was already talking about this when I talked about the previous amendments, that you would simply be decided to give an area, so what anyone finds buys; whether it's the subject of research or the use of mineral raw materials, it doesn't matter, because you won't even control it, there won't be anyone, and the agency employees won't be very interested in what's exploited. This prescribed a type of mineral raw material to be used in, a space where mineral raw materials will be exploited. As we can see, it is already not respected under the existing law, but this law is being applied, which has not yet been adopted, and this provision has been abolished by the fact that I have just set an example for you that in the area of the Black Summit, practical research works are being done outside those three areas that have been set by the concession agreement. So he's not wondering about space. The conditions of the use of mineral raw materials and the time on which mineral raw materials are given for use – in these concessions mentioned at the Black Summit, no one announces the time for which it will be used, or to exploit mineral raw materials. That notion of time is so stretching, and it looks like in the government that some claim from 29 to 99 years, everything depends on where you come from information, and you have sources, because they're all off the record. There is no Minister of Mining and Energy to go out and tell the public and citizens of Serbia – it has been issued for use, under these conditions, in this and that area, only the mineral raw materials and nothing else will be exploited and so much will be exploited. After only following this act of the Government, the acts referred to in Article 1, the company which has been granted the use of mineral raw materials and the Ministry shall conclude a contract that is closer to the conditions for the use of mineral raw materials, deadlines, the manner and conditions of payment of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, as well as the rights and obligations to take measures to ensure general safety, environmental protection and other measures in the use of that type of mineral raw material. You see, you're ousting a full act, and there in the concession agreement, the government will still be making some kind of contract, but this contract that the government is making is nowhere near as well defined, which it must contain, as contained in Article 14 that you're erasing. It's even more devastating that no one can understand why you're erasing Article 15. Article 15 says in the first position: "Giveing mineral raw materials to use is done by public competition or by collecting offers. "No one living knows by which key, without any public competition, some companies received concessions for research and exploitation of mineral raw materials at the Black Summit. It's never been published – now we're starting, so let's gather offers on who's interested. It happened that there was a company that had friends in the management or on the RTB board, named from here in Belgrade. Unfortunately, even before the chairman of the board was Nemanja Kolesar, and even now, when they come to Bor, they don't even know how far Bor is from Belgrade, they don't even know the basics about RTB, and the board presidents are, since the authorities in RTB have been suspended. So it's no wonder that today RTB Bor produces three and four times less cathode copper than it did at the time of the bombing and the time of the sanctions. Take that the price of copper is $5,799, three and a half times what it was in that time, so you'll easily calculate that it's a ten-fold loss for a state that shouldn't stand, since you're boasting that we have the world's support in everything and everything. In the end, it always comes down to the fact that this support is intense and constant only when it comes to the collapse of the state and our economic system. Article 15, which said that it would be awarded by public competition, further well-defined what it contains and says: "The public tendering ad contains particularly information on: the type of mineral raw material given to use and the area on which the bed of that mineral raw material is located... ". So when you give mineral raw materials to exploit copper, if you haven't made such a contract, then all the production of gold from the so-called. Anodous mud must belong to the state, or RTB Bor, if it still has state property or majority, and copper will be the producer. However, when you delete this member and make a contract, then all the following metals, which often have great value, if they are precious metals that follow copper ore, will be owned by one who exploits mineral raw materials, because you have not specified what kind of mineral raw material can be exploited, you delete a member that regulates it. It is said further – the area where the bed of mineral raw material is situated, the conditions for the use of mineral raw material, the conditions to be met by the applicant of the offer in terms of technical and technological equipment, personnel and other conditions for the use of a certain type of mineral raw material. A concession at the Black Summit is said to have been awarded by a certain company "Dandi", a Canadian firm that you can find out on the site for 20 years without dealing with anything that would concern a little more intense mining. The largest number of pages on that site is dedicated to the company's CEO, Dandi. They have two years ago a mine of less capacity owned. For one such giant or such potential findings and beds of copper ore, it is truly unusual that without any background checks of human, technical and other potentials and without public competition, without anything, it is easy to assign. Then you can't convince anyone in Serbia that it wasn't over certain lines, monetary, party, political, blackmailing, who knows what kind of lines. You also delete that participants have the right to submit tenders within a specified time limit and have the right to be informed within a certain period of time about the results of the competition. That deadline cannot be longer than 15 days. So if you come into a situation to betray yourself on the use of mineral raw materials, there was a very effective way to do the details very quickly, and what you're erasing and later trying to do through the members that you're following, that's where you're really giving in to all the criteria. Simply, that part of issuing concessions or issuing for the use of mineral raw materials leaves chaos. It seems to me more and more that it's a planned mess, because it's obvious that some people only cope in a chaotic state without being able to handle themselves in orderly systems. What else does Article 15 say? "The collection of offers takes place in the event of the use of mineral raw materials of strategic importance for the Republic, for which exploitation is similar to a small number of enterprises." Now I'm going to tell you that, just when it comes to the Black Summit, mineral raw materials at the Black Summit are strategic for the Republic of Serbia and that the state would have to make sure who it gives to use, research and exploitation and mineral raw materials, because millions of revenues (in dollars) for the state can be provided. I can't figure out who wants to give up the potential that exists in the Earth's crust without public competition and without these conditions that are prescribed. Of which the state will certainly not benefit, I suppose it will have some individual. "Offers for the use of mineral raw materials are collected by the Ministry. "That's erased, of course. Under this new law you're proposing, the Ministry doesn't even need to exist. You have this agency. It's a surplus agency, and given your behavior, it seems to be a surplus and the Ministry of Mining and Energy. If you've done something so far, it's something in the field of energy, mostly when it comes to increasing energy and electricity prices, and when it comes to mining, you've absolutely done nothing, because if it were, it wouldn't be on the lowest branches since it's been there, in the last 100 years in Serbia, since it's been developing intensively. The law stipulated that the priority in obtaining mineral raw materials for use is, under the same conditions, an enterprise that has been researched in the area where it will operate the exploitation of that mineral raw material. So it's perfectly logical that whoever did the research and became convinced of the reserves that exist has a priority in obtaining mineral raw materials for use. You're erasing it for what reason? You'll let someone do research in a particular area. When research is completed and data is obtained, if you can get the information that there are significant findings of certain mineral raw materials, that they are economically profitable for exploitation, then you will only be able to sell it well, and you do not commit to making it a priority for whoever invested the money in the research to obtain the right to use and exploit mineral raw materials. "If the right to use mineral raw materials gets an enterprise that has not done research, the research company has the right to claim the funds invested. "Of course, if you did not respect that priority, then you must by law provide a company that has invested its money in investigative work, so that it can ask those you then give the right to research. I don't understand why you're erasing this. I believe that, if you're well-intentioned, it's also unclear, because this just leaves a huge amount of space to suspect that you already have the largest number of locations for which certain mineral raw materials sites have been certified, you've already been distributed and distributed to certain companies. It's mostly insignificant companies, like the one I cited as an example, that got a concession at the Black Summit. So companies without those parameters that would have to fill for such important mineral raw materials. You probably made a deal with them, all you have to do is pass this law and say that it's not binding on us that anyone's investigating, or the money they've invested, doesn't oblige us to public tender, to collect offers, to see who's best – I'll give it to you, and you'll give it to me and that. I don't mean you personally, I mean someone close to you, and maybe you don't know about it either. You'll say it costs so much and so much, bring in the pricer, and that's how you'll take the money. If it wasn't for the harm of the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I wouldn't be talking about erasing these two members, but I'm saying because we're going to have to pay out of our pocket, and these are your whims, the whims of this government. If you delete these two members, you'd better say that the Mining Act doesn't exist, but that it exists in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25494	National MP Rajko Baralic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25495	Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen from the Ministry of Energy and Mining, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the authorised representative for this item of the agenda is distinguished counterpart Dragan Jovanovic, and he will also talk about this amendment. I came forward because I spoke to you five or six times about the subject of this law and this amendment by speaking to you from this pay phone, and this is about how to privatise the cements Popovac, Beocin and Kosjerić, the famous "Jelen Do", about how to privatise mineral waters in Serbia, and this is here and how the topic is. I remind you that I spoke about this in the adoption of the 2005 and 2006 budget and that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, speaking to us when adopting the 2005 budget, said that, on the basis of the unpaid revenues from the exploitation, above all, the laporac and limestone states were denied by 50m euros. Now I want to say a few things about it. During the adoption of the Privatisation Act, which in the harshest and worst possible way has disrupted the entire economic structure, not the owner's, but the qualitative one, it's made possible for the new owners of cementers, and you know how they are privatized, in which way, and procedures are conducted... I don't belong to people who pass judgments, but procedures are being conducted for privatising Popovac cementery against two senior DS officials for corruption. So, the new owners of cementers, who, by my understanding, bought rotational furnaces, property, porters at the gate, documentation, etc., became the unauthorized owners of the Mayan lapora. I remind you, in Drinska Banovina there was a regulation that said that the owner of the cadastrian plot owned only what is on the surface and up to 40 centimetres, everything else was owned by the state. As a result, the owners of the vineyard, because of a procedure called rigoring, which is the most important procedure in the preparation of vineyards and implies double rining, paid an increased tax in the bank because it was believed that they were thus using the right that is exclusively the right of the State. I've looked closely at the solutions in this law, and I've listened well to a distinguished colleague, Rankic, whose waist this is and who speaks very competently of this. My question here today refers to the following: does the state have the power, the power to collect what they took from our country, based on this law, based on the existing Law on concessions, on the basis of the Law on Privatisation, what they took from our country, and they took away the non-renewable natural resource, cement, kretch, a lot of other things, every day amounts to water that is a national treasure; do we have the strength to charge at least as much as is prescribed? With that in mind of you, gentlemen, I ask you to understand this as a parliamentary question as well. So, is it true that in 2004 and 2005, the Government of the Republic of Serbia failed to collect 50m euros on this basis, as the finance minister claimed, and whether the shortcomings in these regulations were removed, in several laws, in the Law on Privatisation, the Law on concessions or some others, and whether we, on the basis of what we are about to adopt here, are going to provide legal tools to the state of Serbia so that it can charge what is its national wealth and what is spent and is coming out of our country? I remind you, the Lafarg Company has 27 cements, none in France. I don't need to explain why it's like that or what it means, and that's why I'm asking you, this is a very important question. I argued about the Privatisation Act that several laws were violated, the concession law. I remind you that the Mayan of Beocin cementery is located within the framework of the Fruska Mountain National Park. It's a violation of another important law, for me it's incompatible and inadmissible. So the important questions are, and in this place, it was time for me to say it, and I ask everyone who is competent to give us an answer not only because of the funding, but because of national self-esteem. We do not have the right to develop our own country and to leave our descendants empty and empty Mayans, and that someone else has an extra profit and that Serbia's national wealth is being poured into other people's hands, beyond the borders of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25496	I'll only ask you tomorrow morning to make sure the question is correct. Here you are, Mr. Jovanovic, and Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25497	Just a few sentences about this amendment. Thus, eradicating Articles 14 and 15 from the applicable law at first sight may lead to some doubt, since Article 15 in a fairly correct way regulates this issue of authorisation for exploitation. However, if we want to, and I think that's what we said in the principle debate, that this law is a function of creating new conditions for entering these over the necessary investments, then we have to bear in mind that giving the right to research or to grant a concession to research is treated by another law, which is the Law on Geological Research. We should also bear in mind that these are very serious jobs and that we already have some research that employs financial resources at a level of 10 to 20m euros. It is not realistic to expect that someone who is willing to invest so much money will enter this business with the knowledge that tomorrow, in one open tender procedure, they will depend on this procedure and that they can certainly lose their participation in the business itself. It's objectively not realistic in today's conditions. But what's worth noticing here is two things. The first is that the Geological Research Act, which regulates this matter, is also in the management of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and that's good. So one ministry sees both sides of this problem, but it's not good that this matter is regulated by two laws. I think it would be quite instructive that in the next period, while respecting that this is not a simple procedure, this matter is slowly brought to a single legislative regulation, which could then, in a better way, answer these questions. I repeat, when members of the 14th and 15th are read in the current law, there is an impression that they are good at editing this area, but when the overall problem is considered, and that it is a matter of geological research, in fact, a necessary condition to even consider future exploitation, then I think that a new solution is simply extorted, that otherwise at this point cannot. I say once again, I think it would be a good idea to be the subject of a legal regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25498	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25499	Here is how serious these investments are, to start with this amendment: I have already told the previous speaker – two euros per ar or 200 euros per hectare, so you see how serious these are the investment of those who do research. It is understood that they also have equipment, technology, technology or would not apply for such jobs. Of course, however serious business and investment must be, there must be competition, because we always come to what I have already said – that there will be one number of people who will be privileged to receive the right to exploit mineral raw materials. Article 15 is deleted and applies to Article 16 of the existing law. It is that the existing law regulated the amount of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, as well as the closer conditions for the use of mineral raw materials, which was determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there are criteria according to which this level of compensation is prescribed, among other things: the type of mineral raw material, the quality of mineral raw material, the quantity of exploitation reserves, etc. This article shall be completely deleted and a new member shall be written instead, although this existing law has been regulated to the extent that the types of raw materials can be charged for the use of mineral raw materials. A new member says, "The company that exploits mineral raw materials pays compensation for the use of mineral raw materials in accordance with this law." Then it states what it is and what values are paid. It could survive, however, that something has entered the member again that should not be found at all in this member who regulates the amount of compensation when it comes to the use of mineral raw materials. Why? So, after this attitude, the fee referred to in Article 1 is determined according to the following basics: for all types of coal and oil shale 1% of total income; hydrocarbons in liquid and gas; radioactive raw materials; all metal raw materials, and below stands - the income from the solvent; technical raw materials; non-metallic raw materials, etc. Special attention causes this under 12) - all metal raw materials, and 3% of the net income from the smelter. Lastly, you say, "The net income from the smelter according to the position of the 2nd member is the total income from the sale of the finished product, reduced by the cost of melting" etc. I'm asking you, what's this got to do with mining? Does anyone in your ministry know that mining ends from the moment the concentrate is finished? If you want the final income from the smelter, what's the final income from the copper smelter in Bora? Anodous copper, which has no market value and is not sold. Only when anortic copper goes into the electrolytic refinement process, so electrolytic purification is done, so cathode copper is obtained, or as it is said -- copper with four nines of purity, it has its own price, which is $5,779 on the English metal stock market, is still announced by copper growth. The production of copper in Bor is unfortunately falling, precisely because you from the Ministry determine someone who will be there on the RTB Bor board and who will run it, you determine people who don't even know how to stab Bor and show where he is, but that's why they know, when they get to Bor, to stop by a luxury car to ask – do you know where RTB's Directorate is. If a Boranin asks him by accident – what do you want him to say – you know, I'm the chairman of the board there. That's why all this is going down, and you're writing in the law that it's going to be all metal raw materials - 3% of the net income from the solvent. How you're gonna determine the heath's income, I don't get it. As long as we're here, I'll tell you what it's like to have a solvent's income. So let's say, maximum production, at least so far it's been in Bora, from the concentrate, so as to put it, that factor that can be converted from 100% concentrate, about 92% of the maximum can be obtained from copper, from that copper containing concentrate, the rest goes into slag, etc. You've even got a slag around here, where you name ash as part of mining, which also has nothing to do with mining. Mr. Zoran Drakulić dilutes the import concentrate in the Boro smelter and signs a contract with the director of the smelter that the coefficient of exploitation is 96%, and in the best days when the melting room was fully operational and it could have gone to 92%. What's going on now? In order for him to settle his, then Bor from his own reserves, he must pay his own concentrate to Dracula, so that the service that the melting room should charge in the name of what she did to beat up the concentrate practically pays with its concentrate. And then Mr. Drakulić gets a full free service, the Borans get heavy metals in the air that they never had, because concentrates that the country of origin, which have been traveling around the world for years, and no serious country allows them to approach their ports, are only us to accept it in the Dust. Then you get into a situation to hear the report in the evening on a local television diary, which reads – there are so many and so many sulfuroids in the air, it is said that it is 400 times, say, more than the quantity allowed; there are so many and so many, then nickel, cadmium, mercury, etc., what has never been in Bor, or in a pine concentrate. At the end of this article that you are proposing, practically changing that member who was good, you say, "The way you pay the fee of the 1st member's position", although you have prescribed it completely, and the quantities and what kind, "the closer determines the minister in agreement with the finance minister. "I guarantee you that the Minister of Mining and Energy and the Finance Minister will never agree on how they will prescribe the amount of these fees. First, because whoever deals with mining, the Minister of Mining and Energy, doesn't know mining; secondly, the one who deals with finance also doesn't know mining, but knows the financing in that domain how much he's going to ask and take, no matter how much he gets in advance. Since you stated here that it is also charged for radioactive raw materials 2% of total income (to be understood, the old law predicted 2%), do you have any knowledge of the presence of radioactive mineral raw materials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Do you have any knowledge of the presence of radioactive mineral raw materials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Representative of the Ministry? You don't want to answer me. I'll give you one brief piece of information on how things are with the existence of radioactive mineral raw materials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In 1949, I guess because of the political situation at the time, the then state decided to form a federal commission for nuclear energy. The president of such a commission was designated Aleksandar Rankovic, who established four institutes to deal with finding possible nuclear mineral raw materials in the Republic of Serbia. These institutes were: the Institute for Geological Research of Nuclear Raw materials, the Institute for Nuclear Raw Materials Technology, the Institute for the Use and Application of Nuclear Energy - Vinca and the Institute for Health Protection "Dr Karajović". These institutes still exist today, with a slightly weaker technique, with a slightly smaller number of experts than they had back then. But the results that the commission has come up with are impressive. They ordered immediately in 1949 to go into geological research in the Old Mountain area and determined by 1966 that there were 42 occurrences of nuclear mineral raw materials and three ore beds. Of these three mine beds, two mines were opened for the exploitation of uranium and uranium concentration plants and the acquisition of so-called "species". yellow cake or sodium diurants. What's this about? A total of 14 tonnes of yellow cake was produced by 1966. It was sold to some foreign nuclear force. I didn't get the data, but it's huge money. Today, the Kalna mine near Književci is preserved, especially the Gabrovnica mine within the mine is fully preserved, can continue to exploit at the moment, can even on these concentration plants, making yellow cakes, those who deal with these jobs know what it is, and can make huge revenues. I believe that you just copied this from the old law, because you did not convince me that you really have information about that there are more serious locations of radioactive mineral raw materials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia when you were talking about the need for significant resources to mainly do research and to determine whether they exist anywhere in that amount of mineral raw material. I can give the Ministry names of at least four, five people who have in their computers, and I have on me, researching German geologists from 1926, 1930, 1932 and 1934, very serious and very large, where there are smaller beds, not as large as surface spears that have been opened in Bora, but where copper concentration exceeds 8%. Even in 1903, then the French exploited the pine mine, and without any fleet tore through the ore directly, it did not exceed 8%, and we have areas where it crosses. We have fully completed geological research and certified reserves in Neresnica near Kučeva, in Blagoje's stone, a gold mine where gold has 450 grams per tonne. The quantities and how significant an income for the state would be if it were to become serious and pay attention to the mining of Serbia is the fact that in the 20th year, a stock company from France produced about three tons of gold in just three years with 20 employees in a modest mine. There are a large number of mine beds that are polymetallic, where there are not only copper, where there are other metals (I'm talking only about the area I know best) where they can have a special process of fleeting or redecorating existing fleeting plants to separate their concentrates and get much better results in mining, but that's what it takes to get someone interested, to at least know something from these areas that we're talking about today. It's a very vague situation for me to be talking about the privatisation of RTB Bor for five years. I said that the restructuring process in RTB was introduced against the law and that there was a decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia that the restructuring process was introduced against the law. Besides, you're moving on. Yesterday and RTB CEO Bor says 2,800 employees should be fired. No serious state that has copper production has ever wanted to drop copper from state hands in history. Let me give you an example of Chile, which may be the world's largest copper producer, whose annual production of copper has crossed four million tons. Multiply that by $5,700, and you'll see how big that is. Exploitation, further sale and production of their copper exclusively for a company owned by Chile. Iran is also a country that produces large quantities of copper and also does not think of dropping out of state hands the production of copper, but they have a stock company, but the state is a majority owner, and not only with 51%. The company's name is Nico, and it records huge results, mostly financial, when it comes to copper production. Since copper production follows and gold production I have asked one parliamentary question when it comes to the production of gold. We used to make 30 tons of gold a year. About $18,000 is a kilo of gold; just multiply it, and you'll see millions of showers for those who know how to earn them. But that could have happened when we produced 30,000 tons of copper a year. Now we produce 1,000 tonnes a month from our own concentrate, we produce 12,000 a month, and when all of Dracula's concentrate is recalculated up to 3,000 tonnes, which means twice as much of its concentrate as RTB Bor, and until just five years ago, the situation was completely different: RTB Bor processed three quarters of its concentrate, and one quarter imported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25500	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 16. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25501	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, as my colleague Radeta says, we are waiting for this amendment, and we are waiting for it because it is important. The Finance Committee, although not the parent committee for this law, analysed the economic aspects of certain provisions of this law. Tax policy and any changes that must follow must surely increase the tax burden on non-renewable resources. It's something our country has to do, and I agree with a large number of predecessors who have spoken. On the other hand, you have to take care of the interest of local self-government, and this amendment talks about exactly that. It is that natural resources are state resources, but the biggest, irreparable damage is currently being suffered by the municipalities on which these resources are located, and in the previous period, the least useful have just had the territories on which it was happening. The proposed Article 16 shall have two positions. One concerns municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia without the territory of Vojvodina, while the other concerns municipalities within the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and in the part of Serbia. The member was expected to place municipalities in two categories: those that were in one part of the Republic of Serbia and those that were in the other part of the Republic of Serbia. The two groups of municipalities were in an unequal position; the municipality that was in Serbia's territory without the province of Vojvodina received less money if some raw materials were located on its territory, unlike the second part. What did we suggest? We have suggested that 50% of the fees go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 50% at the expense of the local self-government unit. All environmental damages to local roads being destroyed by truck transport are units of local self-government. The municipalities have to get more funding to deal with all these consequences that remain after the exploitation of certain raw materials. On the other hand, it was predicted that 40 per cent of the funds would go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 60% of the funds to go to the AP Vojvodina budget, and then the AP Vojvodina Assembly would decide which municipality it would assign and how much, which means it could allocate all 60 per cent, and to some municipality it could assign zero. We have suggested that the provisions of this law give all municipalities 50%, and if the raw materials are located on the territory of the Vojvodina 10% of the funds go directly to the AP Vojvodina budget. The Finance Committee believes that this is a proper distribution, a fair one, and that in this way all municipalities come into the same position, they get more funds than before and they can take care of all the needs that citizens have, which are the result of all these things that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25502	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25503	We are not surprised at the separatist and other tendencies that come from the AP Vojvodina, which is currently in power, not in the water, but in the authorities of Karic and Boris Tadic, Canka and others. We wonder what the Finance Committee proposes. Why are we surprised at that? Afterwards, when my amendment is in order, to explain where everything the RS government has done is wrong, I will break the Constitution when it comes to Article 18. It's a bill of law. I have to intervene on what the Finance Committee has proposed as an amendment. This amendment is essentially no different from the text offered by the Government; it differs only in some percentages, as to who and what it shares. I need to remind you of one thing. The existing law, regardless of how you changed it, and what you changed in Article 2, reads: "Mineral raw materials, as a natural good in state property, can be used under the conditions and in the manner laid down by this law." I'm saying it's good in state property. Perhaps Mr Rajko Baralić, when it comes to the mineral treasure, described in the most picturesque way with that story about the vineyard; the first Ash is something you use as the owner of agricultural land, and the second is already some mineral treasure that is in state property. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that he is the holder of property rights, one who appears on behalf of the tenants in some situations the Republic's Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and in some situations, mainly in most of these cases, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Only individual rights which do not question property, such as use and lease and use, have been passed on to someone else who also represents the state. I must warn you that local self-government is not a state government. All the fees to be paid... And then I'll explain to you that you were wrong about that fee. You tried to make something right, but in Article 16a, you said in your third position – forced payment and control of the billing and payment of charges for exploitation... There's no such thing as a fee. There's a fee to be used. In all your members in which you are looking for a change of law Mr. Rankic tried to explain an engineering and technological aspect of the failure, and I am trying to explain this founding-law aspect of the total failure. Those who wrote this law, these changes and additions, don't follow this matter at all. In three members, there is a fee for use, and in two members there are charges for exploitation. Now you ask that Radet Naumov of yours what's the difference between those two fees, he won't know how to tell you. Let's assume that this is a compensation for the use of, as you say, mineral goods; it is the income of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia can legally give part of the income, an analogy is some as entrusted by a part of the business of its jurisdiction to local self-government units, and it can give up the works of compensation in favour of the local self-government unit where the exploitation is carried out. However, when the Republic is denied, and this is how the ministry proposes and what the Finance Committee proposes, someone who is not a unit of local self-government appears. Turns out the AP territory is being exploited twice, once in the municipality, and the second time in the province, which is not true. I don't know why you're filling up Bojan Pitiæ's money and everything. On what grounds? What is their responsibility in terms of this law? It doesn't exist, it's no responsibility. Secondly, one mistake has just been made, it is said – the local self-government unit has an obligation to maintain a path that destroys someone who has a mine. No, he's in charge, he's in agreement with the Ministry, among other things, and the measures he needs to take, and these measures have been followed by financial resources that he needs to separate from his current business in order to preserve the ecologically correct environment. Mr. Matić, you haven't read the law and I can't help you. I'm just reading to you what the Ministry wrote. In the next article, you will see what the contract contains and what they propose. (President: Please, no discussions with each other. Go on. There is no need to challenge what your government wrote. I understand you're against your government, but there's no need for you to attack me for it. Sit down with Minister Naumov and then agree on what he wrote and how he could write. Don't call me for it. He wrote here a man to conclude a contract that regulates rights and obligations, especially height, deadlines and how to pay compensation for use, as well as rights and obligations to take measures to ensure general security, environmental protection and other measures. Look, I quote, please don't count this time. I quote Minister Naumov. So what you've suggested is that 50:50 percent go between the Republic and the municipality, and when it comes to a municipality on the territory of the AP Vojvodina to go 50% to the municipality, 40% to the Republic and 10% to the AP, forget it. We don't support such a thing because we don't see the AP Vojvodina in this business at all. We don't see what kind of damage she's suffering. You are bringing into an unequal position of the municipality, and you are bringing the Republic into an unequal position because it does not act in the same way in all of its territory. I'm not surprised at Palitić, Canka, Kasi, and Simic, the one that holds him, I'm not surprised at them. It's their strategy, their policy. But I warn you, who are making the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you cannot have that selective approach just to save yourself from a possible political attack by someone who is working there in the AP Vojvodina. When I said "something works", it's not disdainful about the jurisdiction of the AP, it's humiliating about people who are currently doing the job or acting like they're doing the job; Pajtic, he's just painting a man, acting and painting himself, setting up figures, taking some positions. I'm sorry we didn't get him here when he was hanging out with the cards. It doesn't matter either. You have one virtual power in Vojvodina trying in every way possible to exhaust as much as possible. I would prefer that you, as the Committee of the National Assembly of Finance, have defined these estimates to be distributed from this fee to determine that this part belonging to the Republic is a dedicated source of funds to be used for, and then two points and that you have cited geological maps, research, mining science, etc. The start knows the intentions of a part of the funds that are in the role of the development of the Republic of Serbia, development, discovery of its potential, etc. This is how it is said – we share in equal honors, please excuse me, depending on what happens and what local self-government is in. Mr Jovanovic initially asked a very principled question about Obrenovac, as something was exploited in Lazarevec, and something was happening there in Obrenovac. By some logic, things under one law need to remain there for local self-government, and by the other law, this one should remain. The man said, between 3 and 7 million, depending on the production, etc. It's not a matter of unintentional use, because it's stuck to the principle of this. Unintentional spending of funds, financed by NGOs, who knows what they're doing. He only figured it out on the way to explain how local self-government is there, but I express the principle that this municipality whose territory is being exploited, what happens to Obrenovac, is probably similar to Kladov, Đerdap, probably what Mr. Kekic said when it comes to Kostolac. So, this community whose territory has some natural wealth, and I use and spread the term, some natural wealth, should get some resources not only to solve the consequences, but to make people feel the benefits of what is there, but not to compromise the basic concept of the Republic. Here someone like Bojan Pitiæ is going to get some grace by playing Santa Claus. So I'm up for it: if it's to be divided, let it be divided. We were very careful about this article, and we couldn't stand the amendment so that someone wouldn't call us for everything and everything, because they hit us with some label and attached something we thought we were thinking about, and we didn't mean it. If that fee is already defined, it must be defined as intended, which means that the amendment must specify what it serves. It probably settles some costs, serves to develop in an area, and that's acceptable. Now, my dear brothers, something happened on that and that territory, let's divide: 50 percent of the municipalities, 40 percent of the Republic, 10 percent of Paititi to keep quiet, not to call us. I won't vote for it, I won't take it. It's not just a political stance, but I tried to convince you on the Finance Committee that this attitude is based on facts, because you didn't define it as a dedicated compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25504	The first word has the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Obradovic, a replica. Mr. Zivadinović, you'll talk about the amendment, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25505	I thank Mr. Krasic for giving me the opportunity to discuss this exactly. You've ended up with the most important one -- it's a political stance, and that's your political attitude, and that's what we differ most about. In the end you said - I will not vote for it, but I would very much like to hear what you voted for; of the 208 laws, you voted against 208. By the law of large numbers, at least one had to be good, and 208 wasn't good. In that it is a difference, the state represents a set of powers, a set of functions, not a set of individual functions, and the responsibility of all these people who are presidents of the municipality is to define what priorities are in their municipalities. A few days ago, I was in Požega, and I saw that your president of the municipality, who does a very good job, sits down and talks to people from the Ministry and defines priorities. Why would any committee of any assembly define what the priority is for Beocin, for Pozega, for any municipality? The people who have been elected, for whom the citizens voted, have the task of choosing what their priorities are and this should not be done by this committee or by any committee of any assembly, and that is our political position. I'm sure it's the only way to get Serbia on the right track, not by us deciding what the priorities are. For years, it has always been decided in this assembly what is the priority for Dimitrovgrad, and for Bor and every other municipality, and that is why these municipalities are in such situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25506	According to the Rules of Procedure, I assume MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25507	It's not snow that's not time. It's snow to see clues. I am very glad, Mr. Obradovic, that you said that the Serbian Radical Party did not vote for any of the 208 laws. Tell Mr. Tadic and tell Sutanovac and those who lie to the nation about the SRS voting for your laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If that's settled, Mr. Radovic, we're going to the second stage. You have to make a difference between the Republic government and what's called local self-government. Local self-government is not in the right sense of the word exercise of power, you need to know that. As far as local self-government is concerned, where mainly those jobs that mean life in a particular area that is bordered and called the municipality, do not involve such terrible political divisions, does not involve principled divisions, but involves respect for the voters' will. Because it respects the voter's will to ensure the functioning of the plumbing, sewerage, construction land arrangements, of course, that these parties in the restaurant should respect the will of the citizens and there are no expressions of that great political difference. The third and most important thing that made me come forward, you didn't understand me at all, because I didn't talk about priorities at all, that this law should prescribe what to do with that compensation by doing local self-government. On the contrary, I even said that you were wrong when you said it belonged to a local self-government fee so that she could fix the roads some mining truck ruined. No, it's a mine obligation. I told you something else - if you think you need to make a split of that fee, then the part that remains with the Republic, in your version it's 50 percent, should be a dedicated fee and for that part that belongs to the state, the National Assembly is the only one empowered to prescribe a purpose. So I haven't talked about priorities at all; what's more, my concept of local self-government implies that only laws can prescribe some frameworks in which local self-government is completely free to behave and don't twist what I said. Priorities not, but the purpose of the funds, and those that remain in the Republic and represent the income of the Republic. I also said that the part of the fee that remains for the Republic should be defined for development, so I even gave a few optional ideas, and these people in the profession could work out much better, whether these are maps, whether it's research work, whether it's opening up some new spaces for some new research, whether it's aid in the development of mining, etc. I didn't define it, I just gave an idea how to do it. So, I didn't talk about priorities, nor that the National Assembly should legislate with local self-government what to do with this 50% of this fee, no, I was just criticising the concept of Bojan Pajtic being stimulated by certain means of silence and not attacking the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25508	Since this was according to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to the replica Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25509	Yeah, I'm entitled to a replica. This has nothing to do with the support of Bojan Pajtic by the Republic government, this has to do with the AP Vojvodina. That's exactly the part you obviously didn't understand. There are certain responsibilities that the AP Vojvodina has. These powers must be financed, and in some previous period we have most often passed laws that certain parts of Serbia, the municipality, the provinces were given jurisdiction, but did not receive the means to implement them. We differ in what we think every part of Serbia should have the resources to develop and these funds should not be centralized, they should not be decided here, but should be decided where the problems exist and that is the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25510	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Mr. Krassic, what is it now, Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25511	Since Mr. Obradovic finally ran out into the clearing, and that was my intention, now to tell you why you're detaching those funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25512	Before you tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure, I could decide if you'll get a word in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25513	Article 100. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25514	Article 100 — Injured dignity by representing your views? Wrong interpretation, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25515	Now the public of the Republic of Serbia will hear what is done. You see, there's a secretariat in the AP Vojvodina that deals with these affairs, I mean mining. There's a man out there who's a little Karicev, a little someone else's. You arrest it, I don't mind, just you arrest it. Let me explain. This gentleman, in co-operation with Mr. Bojan Pajtic, a few months ago or, to be precise, in September of last year, wrote a letter to an investor from the United States and was told this way – we considered your interest in participating in the privatisation process and buying the possibility of coal exploitation at Kovin, with a special reference to the offer of creating a coal factory to make oil products. In order for us to develop this project to the end, it would be good to pay the AP Vojvodina (even the account is given) as a deposit of $10 million. You have to bear in mind that we're about to have an election, and if we stay in power, you'll get that job. Mr. Obradovic, you may not be informed, but by the way you have formulated the amendment of the Finance Committee, which is in principle not more important than the amendments submitted by Mr. Pajtic and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, you are practically allowing their election campaign to be financed. I'll give you a letter, see what you may be unwittingly complicity in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25516	The amendments differ dramatically. Replication of exposure to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25517	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Mr Krasic, I would like us to have everyone, not just me, but to share that letter with all the peoples, to see what the province's government is doing and if there is any reason for the competent institutions of the system, which apparently do their job very well, to react. The fact that someone doesn't do their job in the municipality - then let's cut our incomes to all municipalities, to centralize it here at the Republic Assembly, and to do the work instead of everyone, because my God, in Black grass, there's a community official who doesn't do his job. There's something called state, there's something called local self-government and there's something called crime. For what it's crime, if you're suggesting there's a crime, then you need to respond to competent institutions. Let's not abuse our citizens with laws because someone in a community doesn't do their job. There's a way to fight it. That's what we do. The minister has just come and he will give you all the explanations you asked for, but let's not replace the thesis and that, because of individual cases and abuse of position, we will mutilate our citizens and units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25518	These amendments differ drastically, so now we're going to move on to the amendment that solves the same matter. On the basis of Article 140(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry tabled an amendment to Article 16. He's got another solution, 50%, and we'll all talk about it. Thank you for understanding. We find that the amendment of the Industry Committee has been accepted by the Proposer, but since the Legislative Committee has not reached its decision, it does not affect the debate. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25519	Mr. Chairman, I understand that the amendment submitted by the Finance Committee has not been debated yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25520	Let me get this straight. There is an amendment to the Vojvodina Assembly which differs dramatically, which is with the proposal of this division, not to go into details now, an amendment that distinguishes three categories: the Republic, an autonomous province and municipalities. In both cases, it's the same percentage for municipalities. It's an amendment that's been explained so far. And, an amendment that only distinguishes the Republic of Serbia and the municipalities, is made by 50%, that is the amendment we are now talking about, which is the same article, or the proposal to add a new member. Just so there's no confusion, Mr. Naumov, you've accepted this amendment to the Industry Committee and we're talking about it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25521	I think we're complicated here in one thing -- that the distribution of the compensation provided for by this law should be half - half - half: half of the Republic of Serbia, half of the municipality on whose territory mineral raw materials are used. That's the main question for me. I think it's a lot fairer than was anticipated in the proposal, where the relationship was 40% for the municipality, 60% for the Republic. There's been a lot of controversy here about how to deal with the AP Vojvodina. I just want to open one more question, just because it's not closed for discussion in principle. I asked a question, at a time when there was a debate in principle, what kind of relationship would be with municipalities that have the status of the city council. Mr Jovanovic cited the case of Obrenovac; I have cited and now cited the case of Lazarec, a territory that was absolutely brought into an extremely difficult situation: degraded land, elaborated infrastructure, destroyed environment, etc. Whose income will be that 50% of that fee? I repeat again, ministers, under the Law on Local Self-Government, the city of Belgrade and cities function and have the authority of the municipality. In a moment, I'll break the story of this, to help the gentlemen in the corner count. Here's what the bill says. In order not to be bothered about who better proposed for Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina Assembly did not propose a more favourable variant than the Government. The government has proposed 40% for a municipality whose territory is being exploited, 60% Serbia. Of these 60%, in the case of 100 dinars, 40 dinars in the municipality, 60 dinars in Serbia, 60% of which (36 dinars) goes to Vojvodina and 24 dinars to the rest of Serbia. The Duchess suggested otherwise. She proposed 60 dinars to all municipalities, including these municipalities, 40 dinars to Serbia, of which 80% and 32 dinars, respectively. Obviously inappropriate relationships, but 32 dinars is less than 36. For these reasons alone, this Mr. Obradovic escapes, a more favourable amendment to the Finance Committee is. He needs to be adopted here, not the Industry Committee. After all, mathematics does not suffer any political pranks. It's terribly stubborn, some strange science, numbers are clear. Anyone can calculate, it's not hard to count to 100. I'm going back to my question, Minister. Lazarevic is the city municipality of Belgrade. All the municipality's authorities, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, have the Belgrade city. The revenues of the 50% will be the revenues of the city of Belgrade. Please don't nod my head, write it there. Is this the city of Belgrade's income that functions as a municipality? And then the city of Belgrade distributes funds to city municipalities. It's not the same status as the city council. When this income is obtained by the owner of Belgrade, Mr Bogdanovic, it will then be different criteria for how it will be divided into municipalities. Then Lazarus won't have much of it. The municipality on whose territory this is happening suffers damage, and it is just that they have these assets, that income. Last time I asked that question. Once again, I ask the public – will that income be income and city municipalities, without the influence of Mr Bogdanovic, or will he still have to go through Mr Bogdanovic's hands, and then there is not much of it. It'll go to some Nemina, some underground garage or some kind of underground.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25522	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25523	Dear People’s MPs, we have received two amendments to Article 16: one of the Committee on Industry, one of the Committee on Finance. This amendment, which came from the Committee on Finance, came a little later, so it essentially explains the amendment of the Committee on Industry. On behalf of the promoter, I will accept, once the Legislative Committee has dealt with it, and that amendment to the Finance Committee, as it has been given here. In response to the question of who is benefiting from the revenues made in the municipality, I can say that the law is made universally, not for Nenad Bogdanovic, not for any individual, but for that reason the law regulates relations universally. It is very clear here in the whole law, only municipalities are mentioned, there is no city municipality, no municipality, only municipalities; simple and very clear two places are stressed – municipalities on whose territory are exploited. Very clearly, I don't think any further explanations are necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25524	Minister, we just need to find out: so the minister is withdrawing consent to the amendment of the Committee on Industry and giving support. agrees with the amendment of the Financial Committee. The debate on the Finance Committee was, in fact, that there was no inequality of municipalities, regardless of whether it was in Kanjiza or in the Shop, no matter what part of Serbia it was in. That's our intention on the Finance Committee. National MP Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25525	The minister didn't understand what I was going to say. I cited Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic as one example of what it would look like in practice, but Mr. Minister, under the Law on Local Self-Government, the city of Belgrade is doing all the functions of the municipality. The municipality's territory is the entire territory of the city. So under the Law on Local Self-Government, income will be made to the city of Belgrade, and the city of Belgrade will then share in the city's municipalities. There are no, as you said, municipal municipalities; the city municipality is a category established by law. I didn't ask for anything but to make it clear, to tell me if Lazarec will get that money or Belgrade will. You say Lazarus, I'll say it. It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25526	MP Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25527	Mr. Angelkovic, I'm not taking the train, but I hope since 17 May, when the airport of Ponika is in operation, as well as the other MPs from Užica will be able to use it to get in and out of the Assembly. What I would like to say here before I welcome all the honourable fellow MPs and Mr. Ministers is that, in addition to having a six-time problem with the Committee on Industry meeting to discuss this law, we have made a joint decision, with the support of a parliamentary group that has the habit of not voting, that our amendment, 50:50 for the distribution of local self-government and state, has passed and in this way we wanted to fix the situation that is now present in this area. As someone who spent a year as a production manager in Jelen Dol after privatisation, I know that the situation was such that the previous ministry of privatisation with the company also sold the right to exploit, which is unacceptable here and some legal experts know it much better than I do, but I hope that our rule of law will respond to such situations, so along with Kolesar and Janjusevic some "yellow" people will come before the authorities. What's happened so far is that local self-government had 20% of those taxis. Whether or not the fees on use or exploitation will already come out uniquely in the regulated text of the law. But the people who run local self-government now have one very bad situation that they don't even get that 20%, as much as they do. Among us are some who are presidents of the municipalities. I can welcome a respected colleague, Banet Stevanovic of Požega, who has four spears, but cannot charge any of those 20% from the state. With this legal solution, he will receive much more funding and will be able to use that money to build roads, for the benefit of the people of Požega and the Goldibor region. I can tell you that I am not sorry at all that Bojan Pajtic will not get his 60%, 32, 36 over what some respected colleagues say, because we have to make a law that will be unique in Serbia, and that the AP will be what it has been until now – only one symbolic creation, and that Serbia will finally be what it is, so the community of municipalities with a unique republican authority, with a power that will do something good for this country, and this legal solution can also be seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of reporting for this amendment, but as the minister explained it, it's only a good intention and I think it will remain a good intention. God forbid it happens to the local government, just as we got our notice here, and how Mr. Obradovic, who soon got out of the O.R. because he couldn't stand what we were going to tell him, who also hurt local self-government, where someone from the opposition is in power. They say they don't know what to do, they don't know they're looking for money, they don't know what to do. I'll assure you that's not true. We who function as president of local municipalities also have problems, we who are in opposition, because the position is weakly accepting any of our requests, appeal; even the law that follows us to return our local self-government to our territory, and there is deafening. For example, Minister Ivani Dulic, I applied for a forest rent, since we are a municipality that has 26% of the territory under the forest and that lužnja oak, those who know what it means. Officially, I sent a memo outside the municipality, and I didn't get an answer. I sent a memo to this House, I thought, because it's from Parliament, we'll get an answer. I didn't get the answer. Madam Minister, when she was here this summer, when that Veterinary Act came back, I delivered it myself, and I didn't get an absolutely no answer until today. Let me remind you, one of the presidents of the municipalities, who is in front of the SPS, Mr. Smiljanic, the president of the Municipality of Apatin, said out loud and clear here, when the Law on Local Self-Government was being completed, that he would not support the law for the reason it belongs to a party that supports this government, and could not reach a single minister. Then how can someone get to a minister or a ministry, who isn't in a position? I doubt this will be just one good intention, and the local self-government will have any trouble getting their share that belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25530	I thank the People's Messenger Mitti Avramov. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25531	Amendment to Article 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act reads as Article 17 is deleted. It was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Article 17 of the current law was very short and said: "The exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out on the basis of approval for exploitation by the Ministry". The member could have remained such that the deleted members of 14 and 15 who were increasingly giving – the conditions and ways under which the approval for exploitation was performed and issued, where even a public tender for the right to exploitation was scheduled. However, since these members have been deleted, this amendment and supplementation required that something be written to replace the deleted Articles 15 and 16. That's where it was done a little, or what was left out? Article 17 and subsequent Article 17a, which is added, are practically trying to specify what was regulated in Articles 14 and 15. Of course, it deliberately leaves out what is most important, which the members of the 14th and 15th contained, which is the type of mineral raw material that is exploited and the space where mineral raw material is exploited. There is something that should not be said: "Acquittal approval shall be issued at the request of the holder of mineral raw material research in the area where the exploitation of that mineral raw material will be carried out." What if mineral raw materials researchers in a certain area don't want to apply for exploitation? Does this mean that the Ministry and the Government will be handcuffed, that they can't be seconded, because no one else can apply; or is it an attempt to give someone the right to explore mineral raw materials by giving them the right to exploit the package, because no one else will be able to apply for it? Mr. Secretary, since you've arrived to strengthen your team, last time I asked them, I'd like to ask you, you'll probably be able to answer me. Unfortunately, I have to go back, since you weren't here, to an article of the 16 that you deleted. You have made a new member of the 16th where you state the fees that will be paid on the basis of various types of exploitation of mineral raw materials, where you have listed – for all metal raw materials 3% of the net income from the solvent. I asked them if they knew, they said they didn't know, what was the income of a copper smelt in Bora. Maybe you do. If you don't know that, then I'm going to ask you if you know that there are metals that are produced by having no pyrometalluric process at all in production and having no solvent behind them. Here's an example of the production of gold in RTB Bor which is derived from anodic mud by the cyanization process, meaning no pyrometalluric processes. Here is an example of the production of aluminum, the most famous procedure in the world to be used – so-called. Byer's procedure, where the clay electrolysis is practically given aluminum, without any melting in the furnaces. When you say things like this, you touch metallurgy, then you should know that there are metals that melt in normal conditions by putting them in a human hand, like a germinium that has a melting temperature of 36 degrees. You should know that there are metals at room temperature in liquid form, as alive. You need to know a lot of things before you write something like this that can't stand by the Mining Act. I'm going to tell you that the product of the Bohr smelting plant is an anodic copper that can't get into the market, because no one will buy it, its transport to any electrolytic refinement plant in order to get a cathode copper that has its value on the world's metal stock market, can't be the product of a smelter. Therefore, you should have accepted our amendments, or you can accept them in the voting day, not to delete Articles 14 and 15, and to delete all these surrogates for those members, which are unsuccessful, to return to Article 17, whose removal is required, the last position you have proposed is: "The request for an extension of the period of approval under Article 1 of this Article may be submitted before the expiry of the period of approval. "I've already told you that it seems like the intensity of the whole member that you're proposing that whoever has the right to research is absolutely by the same right to retain the right to exploit. Of course, if the exploitation is economically profitable, there will be no need to wait for any next possibility when it runs out of time for exploitation, so that it eventually participates in an open tender, where someone else who would like to offer better conditions for exploitation would apply. It may extend before its deadline, under the same conditions, as far as this extension is concerned, because if it were not for you to introduce a kind of competition, which you have abolished in article 15. Since I have an amendment to Article 18 that speaks of Article 17a, I will not further explain this amendment, but in your absence, you have remained in my debt of many answers. I believe your officers at least wrote that down zealously. There, I remembered, when it comes to the proceeds from the smelter. In RTB Bor in the last few years has been intensely considering getting copper through the process of lying. As you know, it's a hydrometalluric process that has nothing to do with a cannon, it doesn't belong to pyrometalluric procedures. If any of these beds prove to be suitable for obtaining these concessions you've received, for obtaining copper through the copper ore lolliance process, then how are you going to be able to charge 3% of the total income for the company you've given concessions when people in that technological process don't have a smelter? So these are the answers you don't owe me, because I know them, but you owe the citizens of Serbia, and you especially owe it to the citizens of Bor who are really in a difficult situation. Another thing about Bora, did you get about 18,000 signatures from the citizens of Bora, employees and their families, which require amendments to certain members of the Privatisation Act and that the Constitutional Court regulation is respected that the restructuring process in RTB Bor was introduced against the law. Under the procedure, citizens, employees and members of their families lost their right to free action, which is obtained in enterprises that are not in the restructuring process. Does RTB Bor have your permission to talk about how 2,800 people will be out of work for the next 80 days and how the privatisation of RTB Bor will be completed by the end of the year. In what percentage relationship will be privatized, whether total RTB Bor or, after you have introduced the restructuring process, privatisation will be done by basic divisions, means copper and non-metal mines, refinements and melting plants, those processing factories. About three or four years ago, perhaps moreover, the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic visited Bor and, under the influence of his experts, said there was no more copper ore in Bor, the Borans must learn how to make chairs, grow peanuts. Now, as you can see, it's a lot of pressure from the world's companies to come to the Bor area to do research and exploitation. I believe that it was said on purpose and that he had good and reliable data, because at that time a certain Greek in Bor signed such an unfavourable contract on the production of copper from his own concentrates (which was later taken over by Drakulić) that Bor had to deliver to him a huge amount of copper that he was selling annually. One minute he came into a situation to give him a wire factory that's in the component, otherwise the most profitable company, RTB Bor, so somehow, possibly some godfather and other connections, managed to beat it up and get just one piece of the light wire factory. At the time, this certain Greek, otherwise another New Democracy man in Greece, was very close to then police minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who also often stayed in Bora... When you add up who in the last six years about Bor, who bought everything copper and gold, in which way gold was exported through the Bar to Greece, to Vanje Bocana, about it there's data in the police department in Bor, it's a wonder why someone doesn't take it, it's expected that you do it, to prevent the destruction of this once biggest giant and firm that's brought an annual income of nearly a billion dollars. You promised, Mr. Minister, personally, about a year and a half ago, that you would provide a 30m-euro RTB Bor loan within a month after the strike when the loop was blocked in Paracino on the highway. I reminded you a few times, unfortunately you never provided that loan, but four months ago, you said you made a huge success by making NIS and RTB Bor by investing in some percentages of money, somewhere around $30 million, a new company that will deal with the production of copper from a slag. You said that you were going into this business immediately and that you could expect results within a month, however, to inform you if you don't have information, it's been a few months, no one mentions it; there's no money in Bor, no RTB, no NIS is interested in it, especially because the technology of extracting copper from the slag, which is not complicated, is quite expensive. So all the Borans saw that in fact, the government's goal is that it's only a month-to-month delaying their problems and simply looking for a man who's going to think of something inexhaustible, but what would be good is for citizens to shed their mouths for a month, two days, to talk about it, that the poor people have hope, so when they're looking for a genius who's got such an attractive idea to get along with their citizens, to get along with their employees. After that migrating, all they're told is that in the next month there are less than 2,800 of them. Such social cases are full of Bor, and if these 2,800 people are out of work, we will really have no choice but to move to Belgrade. Another thing, it wouldn't be such a problem that those 2,800 people are out of work if there was any alternative, but that it could be an alternative by issuing concessions you systematically destroy. It wouldn't be a problem for those 2,800 people if they could understand people why it seems. I'm interested in how at a time of sanctions, with 5,000 more employees than now, with a higher salary than now, translated into the cost of living, inflation, and all that was a few years ago, with a lower grant from the state than now, lived and more people received a higher salary. Now more donations by the government to RTB Bor, much less production, less employees, higher copper prices, and still no money. I said earlier in your absence that the money went back two or three years to Dracula, who made a deal with Topionica in Bora, that the coefficient of use of copper production from concentrates would be 96%, and never did Topionica in Bora produce copper from concentrates with a percentage of 92% use. These are the things that should concern you and I expect, since that's where the campaign for the president of the municipality started, that you will inevitably come because you came to support the former president of the municipality. Then I'll try, if I'm in a situation, to organize a number of union representatives to ask you a few questions, to answer them directly, so I won't be a mediator, though I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25532	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25533	Mr. Angelkovic, the rest has been disputed around the airport, but Velya will make it up, it's not a problem. It wouldn't be his first time. He builds airports where possible and where it's impossible. Mr. Angelkovic, you weren't there before, I was talking about a letter about an amendment, so it might have been a little unclear whether that letter even exists or not. I have a series of these letters from Mr. Dragan Surducci and Lajosha Seke. This has been concrete since 27 September 2005, which was directed to the American partner, where they are represented as authorised to talk, are negotiating the exploitation of the mining treasure in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Of course, I'm going to give this to you for Mr. Markovic's sake, that you give it to him, and I'm going to bring Mr. Markovic some more paperwork on the second day, just to keep it public that the letter still exists, a series of letters exist. And being uninformed and uninformed, I can't really help it, and secondly, I'm not even authorized to support power by conducting an independent investigation as an opposition politician. It's none of my business, but I think there's a duty to give the president of the National Assembly, because this is still an institution to be respected. (President: I thank you, Mr. Krasic, to read to get the information... ) It is, Mr. Angelkovic, a letter in English, do not bother, there is no need to torture, there is an add-on – 10% of this investment should be reinvested by the two for the upcoming elections. Unfortunately, and at first I said, it turned out that Mr. Obradovic, as a representative of the Committee on Finance's amendment, might unwittingly support it. I know he doesn't support it. I've heard of a representative of the G17 plus who strongly opposes it and I support the general opposition of that parliamentary group. Let's move on to this amendment that I've submitted, as far as Article 18 is concerned. Proposal for a law adding a new Article 17a. It is really impossible to talk about this amendment without going back to that amendment that has been deleted from Articles 14 and 15. The law. This is Article 14. Proposal for this law which was deleted on 14 and 15. Articles 14 and 15 of the original text of the law prescribes some procedure to decide on the use of mineral raw materials. It said that mineral raw materials are given for use by the government of the Republic of Serbia act, which sets out everything that represents the content of the future exploitation contract. Article 15 stipulates that the procedure in which something is given for use is a public tendering or gathering of offers. With several previous amendments, we asked to remain members of 14 and 15. The law. That didn't work out for us, because there's a difference in concept. I just said that in addition to the professional stuff, since obviously the Ministry doesn't know what a smelt is, or what a mineral treasure is, or what mineral raw material is, or what it is to use, or what it is to exploit, there's nothing to know, it's to be handled by destruction, it's to tear apart everything that exists in this country. Now I have to remind you of something completely obvious and it's so obvious that I can't wait for someone from the DSS to come out on the line. I just told you that in Article 16 of this bill, where 16a is added, the company that is exploiting mineral raw materials pays compensation for the use of mineral raw materials in accordance with this law. Then in the next article, the new 16a final position is said: "Current collection and control of accounts and fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials... ". The exploitation fee, as far as I know, doesn't exist. Someone made it up. It's such an obvious mistake, or ignorance, it doesn't exist. The Serbian Radical Party advocates the concept that the act on the use of mineral raw materials is brought by the government on the basis of the previously implemented procedure. It stands in Article 15 when it comes to public competition and when collecting offers. Why? According to the new concept you're promoting, it's in the ministry's jurisdiction. The ministry can't decide to use state property. The laws need to be enforced by the government. This law, concerning the mining wealth and the special importance that the mineral wealth has for the state, cannot be left to the ministry, or to an individual. I will remind you of the Law on State Administration, the Law on State Servants, the Law on Ministrys, and the Law on Government, and the practice that has been going on for two years, where it should be written in law – the Ministry is responsible for jobs and, and writes, the Minister responsible for jobs and so on. There is a kind of inversion and identification of individuals with state authorities. It is much better and more correct for the government of the Republic of Serbia to decide such important matters. We have taken advantage of the possibility that the disputed Article 17a proposed to maintain the concept that exists, i.e. to remain in force, Articles 14 and 15. Why? It is prescribed in heading 1 – mineral raw materials are given to use the Act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which determines: the species, the space where the exploitation will take place, the conditions of the use of mineral raw materials and the time on which mineral raw materials are given for use. There's talk of use here. There's no talk of exploitation. It's phase two. Item 2: "On the basis of the act of Article 1 of this Article, the company which has been given the use of mineral raw materials... "and I have to say that you don't even know that the Business Society Act has been passed; we no longer have the term "business", we have the term "business". It can have different organizational forms. We don't have a company anymore. You're still pushing the company, it doesn't matter, because probably in your Republic Secretariat, everything can go through. There's one slightly wider and more free access to terms, essentially, not synonyms for the same concept. You can do all that. You think you're uninformed, and since you're uninformed, you can write anything and everything. I must return to Article 14 paragraph 2: "On the basis of the act of Article 1 of this article, the company which is given to use mineral raw materials and the Ministry closes the contract which determines the conditions of use... ". When it is said that a state body concludes a contract with some company under the law, then all elements of that contract from the point of view of state and state interest must be defined by a general act. In this regard, it may be a good thing that in one of the previous members, the level of the fee for use is defined. That was before he was left to the Ministry to determine. It's good when it's prescribed by law. I object to the way it's defined, to 1, 1, 3, and for the solvents not to talk, it's a scandal. All the ingredients of that contract that will technically, on behalf of the state, sign the ministry... I say technically, because the ministry cannot define the will of the state as foreign contractors. The will is defined by the Government that adopts the Act of Use. The will of the state is defined by this law. You turned it all around and gave it to the Ministry, or the Minister as an individual. What Mr. Rankic was talking about is the reality that happens in Bora, after this law, it will be even more painful, because under the system "holds water while the masters go" the minister will use this authority that the National Assembly is giving him, so he'll lock up the joints, how he falls, and how he goes, contracts. Someone will say, "You're talking about something called using, not exploiting, which is in article 17a." It's all causal-consequential. Therefore, by voting on amendments concerning Articles 14 and 15. Legally, there's an imminent connection to Article 17a. Just to remind you, according to this member that the Government is proposing, it must be related to Article 17 which is amended by this proposal, it is said: "The exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out on the basis of approval for exploitation, within a certain time limit" etc. "Authorization for Exploitation" etc. Article 17a: "A company approved for exploitation and the Ministry closes a contract that determines the rights and obligations related to the process of exploitation of mineral raw materials" etc. Please, if it remains a solution from Articles 14 and 15, then it does not need a contract, but the Ministry only issues approval under which conditions an exploitation is carried out as a state authority. There's nothing to negotiate. Negotiations are being negotiated for use, and laws and professions apply to exploitation. It's all turned around here so the minister can get that power. Here, more acts of use and is not significant, much more gets the importance of approval for exploitation and the contract the minister is due to conclude with the company involved in exploitation. This is where things are turned, but in what sense? In terms of handing out the minister so he can finish the job with Dracula, both Per and Mike. This National Assembly does not have that authority, according to the Constitution, that such rights are given to the minister and that is what we are looking at our basic objection to the whole series of members who preceded Article 17a, because this is a conceptal difference. We believe the minister cannot have the authority required by these amendments to the law. If anyone says – well it's for efficiency, for precision, it's a story for little children. In the current law, the concept is: an act of use, a contract of use, an approval of exploitation. There are no negotiations in the approval of exploitation, but above all there is an expression of the profession, study, analysis, and what is prescribed and agreed on by the contract on the use of mineral raw materials. The National Assembly is being devalued here, the government of the Republic of Serbia is being suppressed as a collegiate body, the minority is all being given into the hands of the minister responsible for these affairs. We believe that an individual representing a state body cannot have this much authority. If someone tells me that his powers are this big because he owns a strong professional service that prepares this whole thing for him, and you saw on the bill of this law that occurs, not only in terms, but in understanding of this matter. I have no tendency to talk about how the ore is exploited, I can talk about these relationships as long as the state can go, what the state can do from a legal and constitutional point of view to regulate and how it regulates and my discussion applies only to that. I have no intention of talking about percentages and how exploits are done, because I don't know, and if I interfered with those things, I'd probably lie to you. This is a legal aspect of the problem: what is the jurisdiction of the state administration, what is the National Assembly to arrange, what can be left to the government by law to arrange and what can be left to the ministry; this relationship is not in accordance with the existing Constitution, because it is completely disturbed and it is given an incredibly great power and great authority to the Ministry, or the minister as an individual, and then everyone will shake and everything will be drowsy because of the possible responsibility of an individual. Those of you who believe that apriors must accept everything the government proposes, I warn you that in this way, a severe violation of something that is prescribed by our Constitution has been committed. The executive post is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but in this way it passes into the hands of a minister. We don't have the authority to define it that way and transfer it from one instance to another instance.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25534	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. I informed Mr. Markovic about the letter, so that part is over. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, I pointed out that this bill, except for two things, which are the mining agency and the licenses it prescribes, does not bring anything fundamentally new, because everything else is pure cosmetics, only cosmetic changes. I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, which actually refers to Article 18 of the existing law. This Article 18 refers to the method of obtaining or obtaining an authorisation for exploitation, i.e. the conditions to be met by the undertaking applying for the authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In the current law, Article 18 provides that, with a request for the authorisation for exploitation, I will now submit: 1) a situational map of 1:25000; 2) a confirmation of the balance sheet reserves of mineral raw materials; 3) a project on the exploitation of mineral raw materials deposits; (4) a project on land recultivation; 5) an act of the authority responsible for urbanism's tasks in relation to the harmonisation of mineral raw materials exploitation with relevant spatial, urban and urban plans; (6) the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's department when exploiting agricultural or forest land; 7) the consent of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and 8) the consent of the Ministry of Water Management, if the exploitation of mineral raw materials affects the water regime. It's a solution to the existing law. These amendments change in fact the first three points of the existing law, by adding the words "or in an appropriate proportion" to the first point of the situation in which the situation plan must be attached. Who's the one who's going to judge which is the relatively appropriate one? Or, what if the company submits a request, fails to comply with this first provision to be 1:25000 and makes a plan in some other scale, will the scale, or such a plan, go to the ministry, and who will be in the ministry to determine and determine what is the appropriate scale and how can the plan be done? The second point has also been changed, according to a confirmation of the balance sheet of mineral raw materials issued under the rules on geological research. It is now deleted, and this certificate is found to be issued on the basis of research carried out in accordance with the applicable classification and categorisation regulations for mineral raw materials. Obviously there's nothing new and essential about it, it's the same thing, it's just a little bit different. The third point has also changed. Therefore, the existing point 3) which spoke of the project on the exploitation of mineral raw materials beds was deleted in a clear manner and, instead, is now under point 3) that it was a study of the feasibility of the exploitation of mineral raw materials beds, etc. I say again, without substance, only cosmetics and adapting to a new, probably European dictionary. Now I have to go back to what I was saying here and what was the subject of controversy about the amendment of the Finance Committee. I am sorry that Mr. Obradovic is not here, the minister is here, he changed his mind in the meantime, so he accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee. In the bill of law (that our viewers would be directed or 100 percent in matter, to explain to them until the end), it was said that the compensation from the exploitation of mineral raw materials was shared between the municipality of which the exploitation and the Republic were carried out, by the fact that the municipality belonged to 40% and the Republic 60 percent of that fee. Also, the law provides that if the municipality is on AP territory, then from that amount belonging to the AP, or the Republic, 60% goes AP and 40% to the Republic. This is what Mr. Petronijevic so plastically, in detail on one case and explained. Meanwhile, amendments have arrived, so one of the amendments was the amendment of the Finance Committee, which was now accepted, where, according to Mr Obradovic, a change was made to make the relationship between the compensation paid by the Republic and the municipality 50-50, or half of the compensation goes to the Republic, and half of the municipalities in whose territory are exploited. Now, according to the amendment of the Finance Committee, of those 50% belonging to the Republic, the autonomous province is 60% and the Republic is 40% of the funds. What is not clear to me (unfortunately, I do not have this amendment with me) – did Mr Obradovic explain, in the amendment, that the AP Vojvodina belongs to that part of the compensation funds? I don't know if it stands there, but that's how Mr. Obradovic explained it. If so, and the minister accepted it, then this ministry is the first state body to give up Kosovo and Metohija. The bill does not mention Vojvodina anywhere, but only "autonomous province" stands, and Mr. Obradovic has repeatedly come out for a pay phone and explained, persistently spoke of Vojvodina as the only autonomous province, which will only draw some rights under this law. I'm just asking the minister to tell us if he's accepted an amendment mentioning the Vojvodina or not. If it is, it's bad. If not, then to deny Mr Obradovic, who belongs to the same political organisation as Mr. Energy Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25536	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25537	So, I'm not going out to deny Mr. Obradovic, but just to say, since you spoke to the public and the viewers in your presentation. I think it's one way of trying to abuse a pay phone, because it never, in the course of a principle debate, or in any material, is potential or does not indicate the name of an autonomous province. It always says "autonomous province." That's clear to you. We've never, especially not us, been the ones who would make such a difference. After all, our ministry was one of the few or first to go to Kosovo with miners, in the middle of Kosovo, not only in the northern part of Kosovo, which is leaving and when it is not strikes, but when it feels the need to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25538	In order not to remain unannounced, I will read the amendment of the Finance Committee, since I participated when we worked and I said what our intention was, and I don't know what Mr. Obradovic was saying. It means: "The funds achieved from the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials in the amount of 50% are the income of the Republic, and at 50% are the revenues of the municipality on whose territory is the exploitation." That's because it was a difference, it was a smaller percentage for municipalities in central Serbia than in autonomous provinces. Item 2 states: "When the exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out in the territory of an autonomous province, the funds belonging to the Republic of Serbia, in line with the position of the 1st member, are 40% of the income of the Republic of Serbia and 10% of the income of the Autonomous Province," means no one says which autonomous provinces, just what you said, "and 50% of the municipality's income on whose territory is exploited." Therefore, it is a purely clean position and is not at all talking about Vojvodina, but about an autonomous province. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25539	Mr. Minister, I have fenced myself in my presentation and I said that I do not have the amendment and I said that in the bill you do not mention the Vojvodina anywhere, that it stands only "autonomic province", but Mr. Obradovic, who explained the amendment of the Finance Committee, mentioned exclusively the AP Vojvodina on several occasions. That's a fact everyone here could hear, and so could the viewers who followed over the TV screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25540	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would just like to underline that in the afternoon debate, we are having a comprehensive, constructive and well-intentioned discussion on the amendments that we all need to pay attention to. It's a very important legal project. I think what we are talking about today is about each citizen individually, as well as local self-government, so municipalities and cities, as well as the states of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased that the arrangement of this otherwise legally arranged area has taken place, but it has never been implemented into life. I must remind myself that earlier we had the provisions of the Mining Act, but that it was left behind by a sublegal act, more specifically by regulations, and by a regulation that was passed, to determine the amount and type of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. Life went beyond that regulation and inflation did its part, so the amount of compensation that was set there was indeed below every criterion. For these reasons, local self-government did not receive these funds, and local self-government remained deprived of what we are talking about tonight. Only this well-intentioned attitude of the Ministry can I interpret in such a way as to make up for what we lost in some previous period and what we had the right to do. If we have already included this in the Mining Act and we have already settled something in the existing regulation, then it was a kind of bond between the state of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, like those to whom this right was entrusted. If we thus interpret the previous period, we will have a restitution and compensation for what local self-government has received. However, if we put all this into another plan and talk about what we discussed here, which is that we had a well-intentioned position of the minister to accept this amendment and to divide the funds 50:50%, I fear that this legislative provision will also not be respected, precisely for those reasons why the SRS MPs were here in the afternoon debate, which is the final position of Article 16, which says: "The way of paying the compensation from the 1st article's position is determined by the minister agreed with the finance minister". This would further mean that there is a period in which payment will be determined, and that period can be delayed and that local self-governments are again damaged by such a legal solution. I would like that absolutely not to happen and to be as effective as possible, so that is why we have proposed a completely different concept of Article 16 and the way in which and how it decides on the type of these fees. Leaving this to an individual, no matter who it is, could be from the SRS tomorrow, is not fair to the citizens and to Serbia. There's something else I want to say. Although I am pleased with the view of my local self-government, I must point out one very important fact that Mr Krasic pointed out – that those 50% remaining in the Republic of Serbia should be determined by purpose both in how and in which way. Here is why: this moment can be put into the role of the president of municipalities that do not have mineral raw materials and which of our debates today and since the adoption of these amendments have nothing to do with them; what will happen to such municipalities? I remind you that there are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just as we are MPs here, just as in those local self-governments where there is this fee. So, those 50% received by the Republic of Serbia should, by legal text, stressing legal rather than sublaw, be done through a certain transfer, under the name of local self-governments that do not have such a privileged position and have certain mineral raw materials or mineral treasures. I don't think this has been taken into account, and if we who have these mineral raw materials tonight are a little satisfied, it's our pleasure to be clouded by the mood that arises in the minds of citizens living in local self-government, and they don't have such mineral raw materials or ore, or they don't have that extra way of funding. For these reasons, we have defined that this concept given in Article 16 should be done in a completely different way, just so that we do not violate the equality of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. From that point on, Mr Krasic also spoke when explaining the legal and constitutional shortcomings of this kind of arrangement. What I was about to say in particular is, in terms of Article 20, where I suggested that the provisions of Article 20 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act be deleted, because the existing law better regulated it, and that article was otherwise referred to as Article 19, where it clearly and decidently spoke of what the approval for exploitation contained. We can agree that approval for exploitation speaks of the type of mineral raw material, production capacity according to the balance reserves, positions and precise limits of the field of exploitation, all right, the time limit within which the preparatory work must be completed and the exploitation started, and then the proposal adds "a which cannot be shorter than six months". If we interpret this as life requires, we must say that this project of law is stretching that time period, and we are all struggling to get to those funds as quickly as possible and that the more urgent the Republic of Serbia gets the 50% and local self-government to get its 50%. If we said that the deadline couldn't be shorter than six months, it was logical and legally understandable to say what the maximum time limit is, to know how to limit ourselves, and to know what we're going to be able to do by some other means to achieve the resources that we normally belong to. So, by setting the minimum deadline, we put the local communities and the Republic of Serbia in an unequal position compared to what has been the current draft law. Item 5 is completely unnecessary. The term on which mineral raw material is given for use should be stated in point 5. See Article 17. It is said that the exploitation of mineral raw materials (the same project of the bill) is carried out on the basis of approval for exploitation, within a specified period of approval. Twice, just compared to three members, we're talking about the same thing, so the deadline is mentioned, it's contained in this approval and there's no need for point 5), it just complicates this situation. For these reasons, I suggest that the minister be truly operational, and if he accepts 50:50% with good intent, he will accept this as well. Because limiting someone to a six-month deadline, not predicting that deadline until they can do so, puts the local self-government and state of the Republic of Serbia in a position not to know when they will start using mineral raw materials. I don't think that's what we're interested in and that the Minister's discussion tonight was in a completely different context.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25542	National MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25543	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, which I ask to delete in Article 21(1) (new point 4). Since you are predicting the removal of articles 14 and 15 of the existing Mining Act, and you should not have done so, you are now trying to add points 4), 5) and 6 to Article 21. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act to specify the conditions under which the Ministry will lift approval for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. It would be normal to, in accordance with Article 14 of the existing law, cease the validity of the authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials by the Ministry of Mining and the enterprises under which the contract will cease to apply. In future, real experts could be used to write the law, who will do the law in the right way, in order to avoid any amendments or unnecessary discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25544	The government has submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24a. The Committee on Industry accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with a correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Raki.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25545	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 25. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act reads: "Article 25 is deleted. "Why? Because simple amendments are proposed, and they refer to Article 26 of the existing law, much worse than the existing law contains. The first position of Article 26 says: "Roading works are carried out in accordance with technical documentation for the implementation of mining works, which contains a long-term programme for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, annual plans for the implementation of works and mining projects. "This really defines the technical documentation that should monitor mining work. Without any need, according to the SRS, only a part of this position has been retained, the rest has been deleted, so the amendment and addition of Article 26 will read: "The mining works are carried out in accordance with the technical documentation for the implementation of mining works. "The rest of the sentence is deleted and the new position is as follows: "The technical documentation referred to in item 1 of this article is produced on the basis of the results of research works, analysis, the laboratory on mineral reserves A and B categories" etc. A and B categories are deleted and the term "categorated and classified reserves in accordance with the rules on geological research" is introduced. I don't know if those who worked on this law know what it means in geological research A, B or C categories. Obviously, since they've proposed to delete A and B categories, they don't know, and I'll tell you what it's about. And the category in the geological research means that the researched reserves must not show a greater error, or confirmed reserves, from 10% when the exploitation begins and by the end of the investigation, the error may be 10% in the assessment of the geological reserves, or mineral reserves. Category B implies that there can be no more than 20% error in the estimate of the position of mineral raw materials. What's that all about? First of all, which is not all the geological works that technology has at its disposal, in B categorization, for example, not all types of drilling or drilling have been performed as part of geological research are not done on certain depths or wells, as are foreseen and as must be for category A. Category C implies a mistake of up to 50%, which means that something, by some surface geological research, could show that there is, but only later, when it becomes categorized B and A, this is determined in a much clearer percentage. Therefore, this category A and B should not have been excluded because, in accordance with geological research, the rules on geological research are provided for in category C and others. If in law you had defined that technical documentation is produced based solely on category A and B, this means that this technical documentation can only be made where the error rate is at least 20%. So this shouldn't have been thrown out of the law, and that's why we submitted the amendment to keep this. This "categorized and classified reserves according to the rules on geological research", I'd like you to tell me what the difference is. These are, in my opinion, synonyms. In order to determine a category, therefore, if you have assigned a category to it, you have classified it, so there is no need to have "categorized" and "classified". Obviously, it was a desire to change something. Which is why it went into this kind of change, without previously consulting a geologist to explain to you what category A means in geological research, B or category C, but simply to say – categorized and classified. I don't know who asked you to do this, if it's in accordance with some laws or aspirations of some centres that want to change this, then you might as well cut the geology college, because after what I've been through today, when no one's answering to anything, I'm going to be forced to ask my professors at Borian College to pay me back my tuition money. Obviously, in those five years of brilliant study, I learned everything wrong, even though I had decent grades, even though teachers appreciated that I knew things well. Now I'm in a position to doubt if they were right. Maybe they didn't know. Because this obviously doesn't fit what we do where mining lasts for 100 years and where generations and generations of top experts have passed, starting with the Czech government and beyond. They've never experienced mining or geology or metallurgy like this. Now, by reading this law, I conclude that we are all mistrained. Or it will be that we have learned well, and that there is someone in the Ministry who does not understand the work that he does and therefore goes before the MPs with such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25546	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25547	The amendment to Article 26. refers to Article 27 of the existing law. We also believe that the solutions given in the existing law are better than those foreseen, and in fact, when it looks at Article 27, it is not some big change, except that, in paragraph 1 after the word "annual" added "operational plans", although operational plans differ from annual plans and should not be placed in annual plans. So that's where one mistake was made, in our opinion. Article 27 states: "On the basis of data on the determined quantities and quality of mineral raw materials and conditions of exploitation, the company is required to develop a long-term programme of exploitation of beds for a period of at least 10 years and annual plans for the implementation of mining works. "So, especially operational plans, and especially annual plans, are being made. There should be no annual and operational plans for the implementation of mining work. I need you to delete this O.R. You have a second position, where it is said, "The annual plans of the 1st position of this member of the company bring the company no later than 31 December of the current year for the following year." You deleted and replaced December 31st with the date of November 30th. You can see that you are not sure that there should be annual operational plans, because if there were, you would say in the second position that the annual operational plans set out in Article 1 of this article bring the company no later than 30 November. You didn't put the operation here, of course, you put it on a yearly basis. Now it's completely unclear on what system do you even make changes in laws? Why do you use different terms in one of the same terms in two different terms, you insert a term somewhere that shouldn't exist, and in the next, when you refer to that attitude where you put in that term, the term you typed in, you leave out. Why is it necessary to maintain December 31st as a date? That's why, Mr. Minister, in good mines, in good business mines, until the end of the year, planning is done for the current year in that so-called so-called. Fourth quarter. When you are doing quarterly plans for next year, you need to determine until 31 December what it is that you will do next year, because if you submit 30 November, in mining, some things are happening quite quickly, you will reach some data in that month by 31 December which you did not have on November 30th, and that plan that you would deliver would be much more practical and much more comprehensive. This is primarily done because of reliability and optimity when exploiting the annual plans. These annual plans, as you know, are often subject to changes in mining over the course of the year itself, so some other assistive, etc.; plans are adopted to change the side, some projects that change the original plans. After all, you get into a situation where what you were assessing the year you were planning next year you couldn't estimate well; it happened that you encountered groundwaters that you couldn't predict, so you have a big problem with draining, let's say, when it comes to cave exploitation and even exploitation on surface spears. There are many other things that you can't plan completely. This leaves the maximum time limit for the annual plan to be developed with as much data as possible, so that it does not have to be completed or changed later during the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25548	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25549	I have to use this time to ask one more question I asked in the principle debate, which I didn't get, unfortunately, the answer. Since the amendment has not been submitted to that article, and I no longer have amendments, I will use this time to ask the question of Article 46 again. In principle, I was talking to this article 46. The bill abolishes the so-called so-called law. The rent law. When I asked why it was done, I didn't get an answer, so I'd like to get that answer now. Several municipalities in Serbia are threatened with such a solution. In this respect, Article 46 provides that, at the end of the year following the entry into force of this Act, the law on the payment and direction of funds for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity and the production of oil and gas is to be abolished. Several municipalities in Serbia will be drastically damaged by such a legal proposal and the adoption of such a law. Among them is the city of Bajina Garden, from which I come. Namely, there are two hydropower plants in the Bajina Basta municipality's territory, and according to this law, the budget of the Bayin Basta municipality receives over 30 million dinars of electricity producers this year. In the same way, some other cities, or municipalities in Serbia, are receiving these funds. The proposal for a law as an explanation for what it is done is to provide compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and to replace it in this way. However, I said then, the water that is specifically used in Baja's garden for the production of electricity is not mineral raw material and there is no compensation under this law for it. Also, there is a problem between Lazarec and Obrenovac municipalities, because coal is being dug in the territory of the Lazarec municipality, and energy is being produced in Obrenovac. The citizens of Obrenovac have problems with smoke, ash and other products. I don't understand why this is happening, why this is happening. I didn't get an explanation. Given that there is no amendment to which this member would be deleted, the Bayina Basta Municipality Assembly decided at a session Friday to refer the initiative to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to ask the government as a legislator of this law, which can only intervene at this time, to submit such an amendment and withdraw Article 46. If that does not happen, several municipalities in Serbia will be severely damaged, and they have major problems because of the existence of electricity producers, oil and gas in their territory, which cause huge damage or harmful consequences for citizens in these municipalities. The rent law has nothing to do with this, and I don't understand why this is all about. The law stipulates that the funds are being spent, their intentions are quite precisely defined and there are mechanisms to control the spending of these funds that the government can use and to control the way the funds are spent. If that's motive, non-purpose spending, there are mechanisms for it and the government can do it. I would ask the Minister to explain the motives that are being abolished and whether the Government has accepted So Baji's Basta's initiative and whether this article will be withdrawn 46.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25550	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25551	This last article of 46 refers to the law on fees, as you have described and explained; for compensation for the use of electricity generation goods, and so far this compensation has not been made under this law, but under the Water Act and by the Water Act, this compensation is paid. This is a duplication, and that's why that member is withdrawing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25552	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25553	Mr Milorad Buhe's amendment requires the removal of Article 30. The draft law on amendments and additions, in fact, provides for a new Article 30a to be added after Article 30a, which speaks of licences issued under this law. Of course, those jobs are done by the agency. There are three types of licences issued by the Agency: a licence to carry out mining work and to carry out expert supervision of mining works, a license to design mining projects and a licence to carry out technical control of mining projects and facilities. I really don't know, since it's just mentioned that the agency is going to be set up, we didn't get in the bill how much that agency is going to hire people, or any qualifications structures, or any closer data on how we can simply not respond to this and say that some agency is going to license. I am convinced that this kind of license or permit to work can be the most successful university we have, two mining, geological, some scientific institutes that we have, the Mining Institute in Belgrade, the Institute of Copper in Bor, which has a special department that deals with mining, and even has a special department that deals with IT, and a special department that deals with metallurgy. In addition to all of our institutes and colleges, we simply give the agency the right to issue licences, to check someone's knowledge. When I spoke in principle, I only said that mining engineers were not placed there in the Engineering Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, which is incomprehensible, because the Engineering Chamber would possibly be more suitable for issuing licences than it is for the mining agency. I guess the agency will then have to be such a strong institution, with so many employees that they'll have to have one number of employed science doctors, professors from various universities dealing with mining or geology and thus be able to successfully issue a license. Otherwise, if the license comes down to one administrative store, where I assume the agency will charge, as well as the others who charge for the issue of licences, we'll be in a position to unnecessarily build up a kind of administration of some auxiliary state bodies and appliances. To support themselves, not to be financed from the budget or to be financed as little as possible from the budget, then they will practically slaughter the economy by asking them for big money to get a license, and by now I have shown that mining has been at our lowest branches since the beginning of their development. And, as you do any legal or physical person who wants to get a license, you can demand a certain price, which the agency will do because they will have no other choice, then they will pay maybe a thousand euros, maybe a few thousand euros to get a piece of paper that says they have a license. Speaking of which, I believe you understood, because you wouldn't let the agency do this, you understood what an American firm is doing, and I'll tell you what it is. It's one of the most successful American firms and has 12 employees. Every year in the second half of the year, they send hundreds of thousands of addresses around the world, of course using the Internet, at home addresses to professors, doctors, businessmen, etc. and then lead some action to choose, say, one of the thousand most successful businessmen in the world. From country to country, they charge a different price. Let's say, in Germany, they send a professor who works in scientific research at an institute and say the price is 2,000 euros to apply for the competition at all. In Serbia, they send someone and say the price is 200 euros. When you send it there, it comes to tens of thousands of these demands, with its biography, published works, they of course take one computer, 12 of them employees, sort it out, and they don't care much about the order and whether they do it right. It happened that in Bor, the director of one company, which is the most unsuccessful, whose employees had not been paid for four years, was given to include five thousand of the most successful businessmen in the world. When you look at the essence, it's a piece of paper A3 format, actually a bit of hard paper, on a chart that says that it and that one paid 200 euros. That's how you pictured this agency working for you, where some people are going to pay for a paper that says they're trained to do it, and there's no need. Given that you have brought higher education in Serbia into the situation that they have to commercially operate (I hear there has been a repurchase of scholarships for students), you could have left this job to the colleges, when they are already commercially doing business, some other profits, they are in a difficult position anyway, not to allow agencies, which you really need to start, to earn money in this way. By the way, all this is unclear to me, why is this Article 30a added, since the Agency will make a decision to put out of force the act on the fulfilment of the conditions for issuing licences if, yet again, there are several views, if that and whether or not to meet that and that. The candles come to mind whether someone has connections or friends at the agency or not. If it does, then it will have all the conditions met, whether or not it really meets them, but if it does not, and if all the conditions are met, the agency will say it does not. The fact that we are trying to fight corruption by law, etc., in fact, this law only allows it to flourish to an unsuspecting extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25554	Thank you. Just to ask, you just said, Minister, you're pulling a member. Did I understand you correctly or...? No, I don't. All right, then it's all right. Since the service understood it so that it wouldn't be miswritten. Here you go, Mr. Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25555	Thank you. It is a matter of agencies and licences; in the principle debate we had two days ago, it was found that the mining activity of a rare area that did not have that licence institution and that this introduction corrected this illogicality. So, the agency determines whether the conditions for obtaining a licence have been met, but it does not prescribe conditions for granting a licence. Those terms are prescribed by the Ministry. It is the same in the Energy Agency, which covers these other areas; the Regulation on the issue and withdrawal of a licence is adopted as one document, a sublegal act, and the Agency only checks whether all of this is fulfilled or not. From that point of view, I think this is a significant breakthrough. Otherwise, as we know, the agency is an expert body and agency that is established through this law, i.e. it is very briefly established, it determines its scope of work in giving, it is an expert organization of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25556	I thank Minister Naumov. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25557	A committee document that controls what is done in Serbia and whether Serbia meets the prescribed, plotted and imagined conditions, concerning Brussels, and it is publicly published, says that Serbia-Montenegro's state union, and a particular aspect of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia, there are 29 organisations, associations, state and para-state character, which are unnecessary; and there are nine double organisations, associations and some state associations at Serbia's level. They are not double the view of being at the level of the state union and at the same time at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are nine parallel organisations within the state structure of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't the crown evidence I'm calling for, because those who wrote found something. You call upon them and that you receive support from them and that you are leaders in everything and everything, etc. I don't like being watched like that, but they even had to figure it out. Why did I say that? For the simple reason that last year we here on the force, those who are most, have passed the Agency Act. They say the epochal thing was that the issue was now regulated by law by the agencies, not by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Then the Agency Act installed a double and even triple legal position of the Agency, and then it was after that law that some individual laws that were passed and where the prescribed agency with its structure and jurisdiction had to endure changes under the Agency Act. Other regulations have been laid down concerning professional work to be done on behalf of the state, and the state cannot do so through state authorities, but through its special organisations. In the state structure, it's called seductions and directorships. And now, to catch a connection with Europe, it is made up that they cannot be seduced or directed, but should be called agencies. We had a situation in a number of laws to do some licensing. I don't want to go to this energy part of you that you've been talking about, I'm just going to say that there are licenses that are regulated by the Law on Education, so the Law on Medicinal Products, so today we had a law on the agenda where there was also talk about licenses, that someone could be the responsible contractor. The license is given by the Engineering Chamber; it is given to an individual according to its qualification structure and work experience and the results achieved in the work. Then we reminded ourselves that once in the Law on Building Objects there was also something called a license, but it was about a company, a company, a company, a contractor. The construction ministry at the time issued a license and the license found that this company was qualified for a certain type of work, whether it was high construction, there were cranes, mixers, so many engineers, so many carpenters, etc. That's what it's got on one of its weights. I'm telling you this because, you see, as the agenda changes, we find out that, in fact, there is no single concept in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 30a, it says – a license for the design of mining projects. In the Law on Planning and Construction, there is also a license for construction engineers who are authorised to design. I don't want to put it in the same plane and say project, the power project for some high-rise is the same as the mining project. I don't want to get into it, it's probably some professional thing I don't know. The principled approach to something must be unique. That's what the state government is looking at. There's no different way of looking at something that's about the same or the same. In this government of the Republic of Serbia, whom it occurs to write the law, who, as it enters into some agreement, sits well and says – I mind the existing law, it bothers me, it does not conjecture the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's programme as a matter of size, the minister, it bothers me. So on Monday, we will also have an amendment to the Telecommunications Act, as one minister is in the way of a certain provision of the Telecommunications Act. I don't defend Karic, but I speak in principle. We've finished something and now let's fit it into the law. You can't run a state like that. It's not the National Assembly of Prosperization and that anyone who puts a finger on their foreheads, imagines and says: I don't like this much, why don't we leave this to an agency. Just to remind you, the ministries as authorities of the state administration, the original authorities of the state administration, by the National Assembly should, under the Constitution of the RS, be empowered not only to work, I don't know, strategic research, planning, control, inspection, etc., but also for part of the professional tasks, to approve and license someone who proves their professional qualifications. We had a mania agency, and according to the system we talked about last year, and it turned out again that we were right, so, from grandmother to grandfather, from uncle to aunt, from this to the one, the state is losing power. It's not decentralisation and deetatisation. This is a system that destroys the state. Now an agency will be created that will be authorised and will have some powers that are prescribed here, and an organisational structure under the Agency Act; it will apply a sublegal act of the Ministry under which conditions one can obtain a license, and in other laws in other areas we have a situation that even the Agency is authorized to prescribe the general conditions that one needs to fulfil to get a license. It just shows the absence of the concept and that it's working on the system – it bothers me in the law, let's change it, how, call the Assembly, we'll get a quick vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25558	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25559	Before I move on to the amendment, I would like to address the MPs and the public of Serbia: five minutes ago, I was called by the Loznica workers from the company Drina, they were in bankruptcy, dissatisfied with the bankruptcy manager, they went on a hunger strike, for several days. As I am informed, there are also sick and what hurts most is that no one from the local self-government has visited them, not even sent doctors or ambulances. It doesn't surprise me, it's a reflection of your democratic rule. Here is Mr. Andric, my dear colleague, president of the assembly; a hundred times, when we were in the assembly, the discussion was, I was explaining who was coming to you, those tycoons who are looking for nice tenders and full pockets of money coming to you, and those who have lost everything in Serbian radicals are coming to us. As soon as it's over, I promise I'll come with them, because that's the moral obligation of every Serbian radical to be where it's most difficult for citizens, especially the citizens of Loznica. As far as the amendments are concerned, the amendment to Article 32. The draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act refers to Article 36 of the existing law. Through point 5, the law amending sees the essence of the amendments to the whole law. In fact, it does not change point 5, but deletes, and the existing point 7 becomes point 5). Mr. Minister, they're not MPs in elementary school so you can propose amendments to the law without anyone noticing. In any case, the solutions contained in the existing law are much better than the solutions proposed by these amendments. So I propose that the 32nd law be deleted, not only this member, but the whole law, and I would like Serbian citizens to delete this government of Vojislav Kostunica. The reason is that, visiting Serbian cities these days, for the promotion of the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj, I have seen a lot of citizens being beaten, full of tears whenever Dr Vojislav Seselj, Ratko Mladic and the late Slobodan Milosevic are mentioned. What do you say? The reasons you already know, it's the arrest of Serbian heroes and sending them to The Hague. That's why those who cry, and there are more of them, thank God, will wipe you off the political scene, as I ask to erase this Article 32. As an MP, I've been thinking for a year about what the SRS has in common with this government of Vojislav Kostunica. I've come to the conclusion that there are two names, two Suleimans. One is Suleiman Ugljanin, who supports you and your government and who hates everything that is Serbian; whenever he wakes up, his first idea is how to separate Sandzak from Serbia. Such an extremist and his two MPs support your government. The Serbian Radical Party also has Sulejman, but Spaha, who loves Serbia and everything that is Serbian and when he wakes up, is the only way for him to preserve Kosovo, and Vojvodina, and Raska, and, if necessary, to give life for the preservation of Serbia as a whole. And, in the end, I can't do it because of the Rules of Procedure, and I would be proud to say so – we live in Dr Vojislav Seselj and Ratko Mladic!
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25560	Here you go. Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25561	Let me just briefly, so I don't disturb the work that is of utmost importance for the Serbian Parliament, just to inform the public and the MPs: the company "Drina" was in a very difficult position until 2000, when it came to its privatisation that ended in 2004. So, it's hundreds of millions of debts and three auctions have been made, unsuccessfully, so that a customer showed up after a year and a half in the end and had himself a bankruptcy, failed to implement the programme that he intended to implement; now the bankruptcy is under way. It's all one legacy this country and this government can't solve. It is not the only company in Loznica and Serbia, because it simply cannot change the situation. The local self-government itself, as well as the Department of Industry, are doing everything they can to help. On several occasions, at the Agency, at the request of Drina, I had scheduled various meetings, we were trying to help together with the Ministry of Economy, to support the company, but it wasn't possible. It's not just about Drina, it's about more companies. They're in a very difficult state and it's inherited, it's not possible to fix it overnight. That there's an intention to take care of Drina workers, there's a sure thing. When it comes to the Agency, the Ministry of Industry and the Trade Court in Valjev, we do everything we can and that is not true, there is one great responsibility to solve all the problems in Loznica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25562	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25563	So, the local self-government didn't come at any time, or anyone, to visit this company, that's what I was going to say. It's your duty. Is privatisation okay, is it not, it will most likely be decided by the court, but it is human and moral for someone to be around them. So I have told you a hundred times in the congregation, how many times we have fought, because you will not be with the people, run away from responsibility, not personally, but you know that you are giving tenders; go once, enter, as I have said a thousand times, because of the Loznica itself into that people, try. The passwords for all the problems they have come to the SRS and we're proud of it because they see people for what. Now ten of them have reported for it. Let's do something together. Is it difficult for you to send doctors, or to send dreams? You could have done so, not you, but there who was.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25564	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. Of course, people there need to be helped without any dilemma, regardless of the attitude of the congregation, and the homes of health and hospitals have to work, and if they don't, they do the opposite of what they took as an oath. I hope the authorities take all the measures, and if this appeal has its results, then it's just a momentary measure. What's more important is to permanently get rid of what Mr. Andric said. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment – Article 33 deletes the words "and the Agency". It is known that mining is on very low branches, especially at this time. We've never had more colleges, design and research institutions before than we have now, and the minister still proposes another bureaucratic institution such as the agency, to take over jobs for which we already have trained institutes and universities. Taking into account the fact that a pit of metal ore and seven coal pits is currently working in Serbia, a surface spear of metal ore and two coal mines, it is most likely to establish an agency that will only spend the money of Serbian citizens for such purposes. This amendment defines who has the right to review mining facilities. It states in Article 42 that the Ministry may carry out a technical examination of a mining facility or its work to entrust an undertaking or other legal entity that meets the conditions laid down in this law. It goes on to say: "The technical review of the mining facility can be carried out, i.e. they cannot participate in the examination of the companies and persons who have created or participated in the development of a mining project for the facility and the companies that carried out the technical control of the project, as well as persons employed by the Ministry and the Agency". I believe this is excessive, that this text of the bill is in collegiate with itself, because the Serbian Government's reply to my amendment was that the amendment was not accepted for a reason because the proposed extension of the circle of persons who could not participate in the technical examination of the mining facility. I hope the agency doesn't do that kind of work, when it says here clearly in the law that there's no such jurisdiction. To take advantage of the minister's presence and ask the question: since I am an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, and we only have these raw materials down there, this mining wealth in Trepca and Obilić, whether efforts are being made and what efforts are being made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to "Trepca" to launch and to "Oplic" to launch, i.e. Did you start the exploitation? Regardless of the current situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia must advocate, if nothing else, and because of the 100,000 Serbs left down there. He probably can't secure his work anywhere, but he gives strength if he goes to work at the Coal, at the Trepchi. Then they will be able to employ those Serbs, and then we have definitely decided that Serbs will never leave Kosovo and Metohija, no matter what the stories and what decisions world powers can make in the future. I therefore appeal to the minister once again to make further efforts to, in co-operation with the "Trepca" Combine and in co-operation with the representation, especially with these Irish people who are in charge of Kosovo's Elektroprivred, in these contacts, allow the Serbs who have worked here, who are needed to start this production, to work anyway, and not to wait for any solutions that need to be imposed on us by Germany, Austria, Ireland or America, but to put forth a maximum effort and effort in order for these two giants in Kosovo and Metohija to start, and also to employ Serbs who remain below to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25566	I think it is a good question, as it is important that the government responds to the funds that Serbian companies have taken from the Development and Investment Fund in Kosovo, and now the Fund is charging them for it, although they are not in a position to sell these companies in Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go, Mr. Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25567	Dear People's MPs, you certainly know exactly what the situation is about our province of Kosovo and Metohija, and what efforts are made towards a swift resolution and political and economic situation. The concreteisation of these efforts is under way through this economic team that needs to resolve the mass of problems. Among other things, there's the question of "Trepce." It is not a simple question, because it is a company that has been so organised, unfortunately since 1996, to make it difficult for a more efficient reorganisation, but right now this problem is on the agenda and the economic team for encouraging and resolving issues in Kosovo and Metohija has taken this into consideration. I have personally engaged several times in this, had contacts with UNMIK representatives who represent interests, which are the temporary authority of the administration in Kosovo, and, among other things, have authority on the economic agenda. You know that goes pretty hard. After all, we haven't even managed on this ordinary donation to electricity to make a deal. Resources in Kosovo, property in Kosovo always remains the first place in our interest and we never gave it up and we count on it. As for these resources or mine treasures, as mentioned here several times, it is mentioned or represented in our development strategy. As a result, we have not adopted a development strategy for a longer period than in 2015, because it would be logical for a strategy to develop such an action to be adopted for a longer period than it is ten years, just counting on a further way of managing these natural resources to be resolved by that time. There is continued attention and concern for the EPS employees in Kosovo and Metohija, both on surface spears and in Obelić and thermal power plants. As far as that goes, I don't think he can blame the current or earlier authorities for caring for employees who stayed in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25568	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25569	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of the 36th Amendment and the supplement applies to a member of the 74th current law. It seems to be a bit of a thing, but it can cause and cause a lot of problems. Article 74 of the existing law provides that the tasks of technical management and professional supervision, production and technical control of mining projects, the independent operation of mining measures, the independent handling of explosives and other professional activities in the exploitation of mineral raw materials may be carried out by employees who, in terms of degrees and types of school preparation and work experience, meet the prescribed conditions and who have the power to carry out such operations. This article in 74 said so. It is literally the same as the proposal for changes and additions, except instead of the word "employee", the word "face" is introduced, making it clear that other people who are not employed in those businesses are able to do so. We intervened on this amendment article because not only will this not contribute to employment policy (if the Government has a policy of employment), but it will even promote something that will probably keep employers from hiring a young perspective expert, someone who has certain skills in the field of technical management, professional supervision, etc., because it pays much more to the employer that from time to time to do certain jobs hire such an expert, to give him some money without paying contributions, taxes, etc. There is a possibility that this is being manipulated, because a number of people really won't be able, in addition to their professional qualities, to be in a position to be the person who's going to do the job. Or, at least you didn't delete the word "employee" but to put "can do employees or faces", and then in that case, whoever doesn't have a face like that can hire. This is how you simply got your employers to watch as much as possible to avoid hiring these people. Since we have two more amendments, I would use this time to say that we will not report for them, we will not explain them, because the discussion so far in particular has shown, as far as I am concerned, the great disinterest of the Ministry's representatives. It's obvious he's silent, waiting for us to finish our story and make a vote in the voting day. Getting rid of 126 MPs will succeed, but believe me, this will not be a good solution for mining in Serbia at all, and it will not be a good solution for the Republic of Serbia, since the largest number of our mining resources will practically go into devastation for some people. Since this will happen in such a way, employees will not be employed, they will not have the dignity of the employee, but the classification will be carried out on slaves and slave owners. Compared to all these regulations from time to time, the Labour Act comes to us, which just promotes what I'm saying, because every next time they come to change and supplement more restrictively than the workers that it was in the previous law, it will go to the next election when we expect the government to take the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25570	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ministers, you have not responded for the Development Fund, when enterprises from Serbia took over loans in Kosovo and Metohija, and these days for these obligations are subject to invoices and charges, and they cannot manage them. Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does Minister Radomir Naumov's representative want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although there are few MPs here, I must say I am very pleased during the debate on the law on amendments and amendments to the Mining Act. The Mining Act, if you remember, which we highlighted in the opening statement and in the principle debate, was essentially a good law, and with these changes, we only updated it, fixed everything that was perceived to have not worked in the provisions of the previous law. This is how we likened it to the overall picture of the reformed energy sector and the mining sector in our country. I hope that when the law comes into force, and what has been largely the objections of many, and that is justifiable objections, which is the possibility of collecting fees for the use of mineral raw materials. I also think that the debate was very correct, it was even extremely peaceful, which I believe is a quality of work of the Assembly regarding this law. I can say that we have passed these system laws in the field of energy and mining, that there is now one legal framework, that there are institutions and that we are in this way fully equal in the market when it comes to energy and mining. Also, structural reforms are under way in these sectors, both in energy and in mining. The government has expressed its determined intention to finally and mines with underground exploitation consolidate and resolve their difficult existing position. I hope that in the coming period we will all see the fruits of this policy together.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-12-0.u25572	Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow, the new agenda. I thank you for the patience and time you have given for today's work of the Serbian Parliament.
