ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27758	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs of Zivodarka Dacin and Nikola Novakovic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a FINANCE OF LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27759	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us one of the important laws that enables fiscal decentralisation – Proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government. As you know, there is a legitimate requirement for municipalities and cities and for you MPs to carry out fiscal decentralisation and to entrust more competences and resources to local self-government, to make as many decisions as possible at local rather than at the central level. This law finally makes it possible. Remember that we have promised that together with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, we will make a law that will allow far more transparent planning of local budget revenues and that will certainly disable any arbitration in the allocation of transfer funds to municipalities. I have to say, most of this law was done by a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. The Ministry of Finance has left the full initiative to the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, thinking that those living in the restaurant best know what local problems are, so essentially, at the very end of the day, we have accepted all the most important proposals of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and there has been a public debate. Finally, this bill, which is before you, is the result of a concerted position between the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, on the other. What I'm saying is that compared to 2000, the current funding system has ensured a real growth in the incomes of local self-government units by over twice. I would like to say that the participation of local self-government in gross domestic product increased from 3.8% in 2000 to 6.6% in 2004. However, the problem in the current financing system has been an unbalanced development of different municipalities and cities. In fact, the largest growth has been recorded in the fiscal strongest municipalities and cities, and the smallest in the fiscal weakest. That's how big differences were made. The difference between the fiscally strongest local self-government units, which is Novi Sad, and the fiscally weakest, and that is Major, is even 16 times. After the transfer, this difference was reduced to 9.5 times in 2005. However, according to the current funding system, the difference between the fiscally strongest and the weakest municipalities is 9.5 times, regardless of the transfers we tried to level and reduce these differences. In that sense, we have applied the recommendation of the Council of Europe and so on. "Robin Hood" method redistributed some of the resources from rich cities and richer municipalities to poor municipalities. This is the basis of this law, therefore, on the basis of the criteria set out precisely by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. The Ministry of Finance did not participate in making criteria at all, but we accepted everything that the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities gave. They gave criteria to determine the degree of development of certain municipalities and we accepted it. On the basis of such a model, we have made it possible to redistribute a significant part of the resources from the richer municipalities, primarily from the cities of Belgrade and Novi Sad, to the more fiscally poor municipalities. If you look at the situation on the 2005 case, where the Budget Law established 15.4 billion dinars for funding local self-government, if this law were valid in this year, and it has been valid since 1 January 2007, then 99 municipalities would receive more transfer funds under this law, these are poorer municipalities, all four cities would have a reduction in transfers, with the largest Belgrade and Novi Sad, while 42 municipalities would maintain the exact same level of transfer as this year. It's about super-developed municipalities. What is the essence of the law, and what is its advantage over the current financing system? First, this law allows for full predictability in planning the revenues of local self-government, as so far the transfer of local self-government from the republican budget has been determined by a special annual law. If this law is adopted, there will no longer be a need to pass specific annual laws, since the transfer parameter to local self-government is correctly established in this law, amounting to 1.7% of the previous year's gross domestic product. In other words, the law determines the extent of transfers to local self-government, and the criteria in the law determine distribution by certain municipalities. In other words, neither the Assembly nor the Ministry of Finance nor the Government can affect the redistribution of transfer funds anymore, but only objective indicators of development. If fixed, as defined in the law, that, each year, is automatically transferred 1.7% of the previous year's gross domestic product to local self-government, it defines the volume of funds. If, according to these criteria, the degree of development is objectively reflected, then only every year are relative levels of development of one municipality compared to another, and decisions are published in the budget memorandum. However, the key role of the Commission is to monitor the financing of the local self-government system, consisting of 11 members, of which five members are representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which can thus monitor how these parameters set out in the law are specifically reflected in individual transfers to specific municipalities. Therefore, the first feature of this law is predictability and the provision of safer medium- and long-term planning of municipalities' budgets. Also, the second characteristic of this law is a more efficient system of unification, i.e. redistribution of resources from richer to poor municipalities. If we look at 2005 and defined transfers of 15.4 billion dinars, this law essentially redistributes 2.8 billion dinars, of which it applies 2.1 billion in the first year, and the rest gradually over the next three years. In other words, 2.1 billion dinars are redistributed from four cities, Belgrade and Novi Sad above all, and slightly less than Nis and Kragujevac, to all other local self-governments, and above all to these 99 local self-governments. We also gave an analysis of how much a specific municipality would get this year's funding, if this law had been passed last year. So we did one analysis, assuming the transfers were 15.4 billion dinars. However, given the trend of gross domestic product last year, you yourself know that the gross domestic product last year increased 6.5%, which means that next year transfers will be significantly above 20 billion dinars. When one counts on how much the municipality will receive in the following year, it should start with an estimate of the gross domestic product from last year, which is 6.5% higher than in the previous one, which means that 21-22 billion dinars should, according to first estimates, be total transfers for the 2007 municipalities in Serbia. By the way, when I'm talking about this percentage of 1.7% of gross domestic product, how did we determine that percentage? We came from the fact that these transfers, which we gave in the Transfer Assets Act in 2004, amounted to about 0.8% of gross domestic product. However, given that you have a tax reduction law on wages before you, and given that local self-government achieves 40% of the total income generated from income tax, then we have calculated that with 1.7% not only compensation, but also an increase in local self-government transfers. Essentially, if there was no change in this law, which is now in front of the Assembly, about the reduction of salary tax, the planned transfer, as we have calculated, would have been 1,175% of gross domestic product compared to 0.8%, so some 0.4% of gross domestic product points are actually increasing by municipalities. However, in the end, we put it as 1.7%, given that we are counting on the loss that municipalities, together with the republican budget, will have due to a reduction in salary tax, at least in the first year, since later we expect that with fewer taxes, more people will register and that loss will be compensated later. I must say that the proposal for a Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities was for this total transfer volume to be at 1% of gross domestic product level. This is more than what was in the original request of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. As for other important features of this law, the property tax is defined for the first time as the original income of local self-government. And so far, local self-government has collected 100% of all revenue generated by the collection of property taxes, however, it has been transferred revenue. Now it becomes the original income of local self-government. What is important, the local self-government unit assembly has the freedom to determine the amount of the property tax, but not more than the highest rate prescribed by the property tax system. In other words, one, the other, the third municipality can compete and lower tax rates on property if they feel that it will attract people to invest in that municipality or to live there, so that someone can also introduce a zero tax on property if they want to. It's now the full decision of local self-government. It only limits the maximum level of the rate, and it is limited by the Property Tax Act, which is adopted by the Republic Government. This way local self-government gets more instruments in competitiveness and tries to be better than some other local self-government. Also, this law defines, among other things, what local municipal taxes are, which are local municipal taxes. I stress this especially because there is a specific solution in Article 15. Namely, this law defines 16 types of different local municipal taxis, and the first three in this law are: the emphasis of the company on business space, the emphasis and printing of the company outside of business space and the keeping of motor road and trailers, except for agricultural vehicles and machinery. So, they've been local utility fees so far. The specificity is that local self-government now does not have the right to raise the level of three local municipal taxes unlimitedly, but only to the maximum level that the government determines on a proposal from the local self-government financing commission, which also sits on local self-government representatives. In other words, it cannot be allowed for local self-government to lift one of these three taxes indefinitely and thus prevent the business of a business of a business operator; therefore, no one, as he thinks, if a company is successful, can only raise it, after seeing that the company is a successful, communal tax and thus tax it. So the maximum level of taxis will be known, and local self-governments can go from zero to the maximum level at these three, so the company and the company's printing, as well as the fee for holding motor road and connection vehicles. So that's where you put the ceiling. Local self-government can go lower, but no more than a ceiling that will be jointly established by the Commission for the financing of local self-government and government. It's also an important paper. As regards the technique as currently defined in this law, the total volume of transfers to municipalities and cities is determined in the budget, the level of gross domestic product was found to be in the previous year and, therefore, 1.7% of gross domestic product is defined in the Budget Act. In fact, when this law is passed, there is no longer any need to even discuss how much money is given, because objective criteria will simply determine the total volume. Of course, there will be representatives of this committee for funding local self-government all the time, which will be formed 45 days after the entry into force of this law. In addition, the Commission for the financing of local self-government is tasked to continuously analyse criteria and criteria for the allocation of non-purpose and functional transfers and to monitor how it is determined according to certain local self-governments, also to analyse programmes for the allocation of dedicated transfers, including allocation procedures and selection criteria, then to monitor the vertical and horizontal uniformity of the system, the degree of responsibility of units of local self-government and has the obligation to prepare annual reports and to deliver them by 30 May at the latest for the previous financial year. The commission is also tasked with preparing proposals to amend and improve the system of funding local self-government. The finance ministry is obliged to provide the Commission and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities with data on the revenues and expenditures of all units of local self-government for the previous year and no later than 30 April of the current year. What do you get by applying this law? We have done a simulation on the 2005 data; as I have already said, 99 local self-government would have significantly higher transfer funds. I'll give you some examples. For example, Bogotić would have 2.7 times larger transfers, Major 2.5 times, Knić 2.6 times, Luciani 2 times, Mali Crnići 2.4 times, Rekovac 2.3 times, Vladimirs 2.3 times, Frogs 2.7 times, Žitorajja 2.4 times, Blacksmith 2 times, Frog 2.4 times, Žitište 2 times. I have set an example of some of the poorer or less developed municipalities, which, under this law, significantly increase their budgets. No other municipality loses in a relative sense of income. On the contrary, as the total volume of transfers is increasing, and I have already said that it will be increased to 21 or 22 billion in the following year, all other local self-governments are increasing, but 99 in a relative and absolute sense increases, 44 retaining, in relative terms, budget transfers, while four cities are seeing a drop in the transfer, with a billion and 700 million dinars in Belgrade according to data for the past year, so I am speaking relatively, Novi Sad by 355 million dinars, Kragujevac 114 million dinars and Nis 30 million dinars. All of this information in all of the municipalities is in your favor. What is the final consequence of the application of this law? It is a reduction in the range between the fiscal strongest and the poorest municipalities from the existing 9.5 times to 5.6 times. So this law has failed to fully balance things out, but I've already said that without a transfer to evening, it's 16 times different, so we've reduced it to 9.5 times, and by this law it comes down to, at this point, relatively acceptable, 5.6 times; specifically, it's a Novi Sad to Doljevac. That's how it works out when it's recalculated. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I would like to say that, as far as the property tax is concerned, we are preparing a law on decentralisation of the tax administration, and in this law, it gives the possibility for local self-government to start taking over workers and the funds of the republican tax administration from 1 December of this year and to start charging local taxes, including property taxes. This is not an obligation so far, but an option, as it is given until 31 December 2008 to fully take over the local tax administration. The idea is that when we do fiscal decentralisation of this law and the physical charge is in the hands of local self-government for local taxes, that the republican administration is engaged in the collection of republican taxes and customs duties, and that local administration is involved in the collection of local taxes. In this way, there will be more motivation to charge property taxes to those citizens who did not report it, to register, and we will be ready to transfer those people for whom we sign appropriate protocols and contracts with local self-governments, including the equipment they use, to become workers of local self-government. I say again, it is not an obligation, those municipalities that are ready to take over as early as December 1st this year, and those who cannot conclude with the IRS a special contract that the IRS makes that payment on their behalf, but not later than 31 December 2008. It is also possible that two or more units of local self-government can transfer powers in agreement to one of the local self-government units. In other words, if there is one stronger municipality and around others are weaker, they can agree, so that only one unit does so and that this is how resources are rationalized. So thank you for your attention. This and the promise we made, that we would carry out fiscal decentralisation, has been fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27760	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27761	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, welcomes every effort by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and every state authority to provide units of local self-government with the necessary means to function, i.e. that local self-government can adequately carry out all its obligations regarding the tasks prescribed by the law. We think it is good that this law on the financing of local self-government will be passed, for the simple reason that the redistribution of funds will objectively improve the position of a large number of municipalities in Serbia and thus enable municipalities to function better and citizens to be satisfied. I'm saying this, not for no reason, because local self-government has this property that's the first and most basic level at which citizens, so to speak, feel the influence of the state, not knowing that it's local self-government and perhaps to a large extent not understanding the difference between one and the other; they form their relationship with the state and form primarily depending on how local self-government works, and they often give assessments about the state, speaking essentially about local self-government. It is therefore important that local self-government has the necessary financial resources, as the scope of the affairs attributed to municipalities by the Law on Local Self-Government is extremely large. It is about a number of complex jobs and the question is how many municipalities in Serbia can answer that job. I'm saying this because there's a huge difference in the economic development of municipalities in Serbia, or a unit of local self-government, because somewhere where there's money, there's very little money, it's being spent on a spoon, and somewhere there's money in abundance, it's being spent in every way, and then I'm going to talk about some examples of money waste at the level of local self-government. Somewhere, believe it or not, there is a president of municipalities who have higher incomes than the MPs. For example, the minister mentioned earlier one of the municipalities that increased income; two and a half months ago, when I was with my party colleagues, they announced to me that, for example, the president of the municipality in Vladimirci receives extremely high personal income, higher than the receipts of MPs. I am saying this because strange things are happening within that system and I am talking about it and I am talking about why I would like the minister, when he finds the time, to answer to the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia whether the Ministry of Finance has any information on what the president of municipalities or the president of the SO is, is there this information, since we are talking about financial matters, about the functioning of local self-government, is there any indication of how it is moving, which is the diapasion of receiving the president of the municipalities. It would also be interesting to hear how much the directors of public enterprises receive in municipalities, to hear and how it works, that is, what is the extent of their resources, to see if everyone shares the fate of the local self-government that they represent or have the case, as is usually the case, that there is no means for local self-government to function in undeveloped self-government, and therefore for the president of municipalities and so on. I have to remind you that the Law on Local Self-Government... So here's the point for me, and the minister was very detailed about the redistribution of funds, and I would like to draw attention to another dimension, to the effect of this law, or whether it has enough resources after this redistribution, to function local self-government properly. You know how, the state should, I'm not saying, we Socialists think it should, but this is about the state having to redistribute to allow the same level of services at the level of local self-government for every citizen of Serbia, regardless of the municipality where he was born, lives and works. We can't allow or at least shouldn't, that's what individuals and political parties can do, but the state shouldn't allow that economic underdevelopment to affect the quality of life of citizens. The logical question arises is whether all citizens in the Republic of Serbia have the same level of services, related to education, health, cultural needs, the quality of preschool institutions, whether to finance certain jobs in local self-government and to what extent. I mention this because the Law on Local Self-Government speaks very closely and extensively about the affairs of local self-government. I will only mention a few examples, for example, the municipality has an obligation to regulate and provide for business activities relating to construction, reconstruction, maintenance, protection, use, development and management of local roads; to establish institutions in the field of primary education, culture, primary health care, physical culture, sport, children's and social protection; to organise jobs in relation to the protection of cultural goods of importance for the municipality; to organise protection against elementary and other major disasters; to provide grounds for the protection of agricultural land; to regulate the way of use and the management of sources; to arrange, or to ensure the operation and development of municipal activities, which is extremely important, the purification and distribution of water, production and supply of hot water, urban transport, urban transport, maintenance of cleanliness in cities, settlements, maintenance and maintenance and maintenance of public water, parking facilities, and parking facilities for their purposes. I only mentioned a few of the jobs, and believe me, there are many, 35 obligations of local self-government are counted. The logical question arises whether this redistribution of resources, which is good, will provide sufficient resources for the functioning of local self-government. I am also saying this in the context of another law that was passed in 1995, the Law on underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia for the period until 2005. In this law, underdeveloped municipalities are listed, among other things: Bujanovac, Petrovac, Golubac, Razanj, Bojnik, Žaguvica, Bosilegrad, Medvedja, Kučevo, Gajin Han, Mali Zvornik, Osekina, Milonica, Sjenica, Crna Trava, Krupanj, Prijepolje, Ljubovija, Rekovac, Leposavic, Vlasotince, Merošina, Trgovišina, Surdulica, Lebane, Babushnica, Kursumlija, Blace, Bruce and Žitište. Among them are the most underdeveloped municipalities then, recorded in the law, are Presevo, Žitorajja, Bujanovac, Bojnik, Gajin Han, Bosilegrad, Medvedja, Tutin, Crna Trava, Trgovište, Žaguvica and Kursumli. Since the criteria and parts of municipalities that need to be developed and similar are mentioned here, the law as a law is very detailed, I would like to hear, if possible, whether during the 10 years, there has been a transition of these municipalities from one category to another, from the most underdeveloped to the underdeveloped or not considered underdeveloped municipalities. I think it would be interesting to hear it here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today when we talk about funding local self-government and the minister will probably answer that. I noticed one strange thing about me, and probably the minister has a logical answer to it, but it's weird to me. In this document that we received today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Bill on the financing of local self-government, where it is mentioned about the existing system and new solutions, I have seen that for the three municipalities that fall within the most underdeveloped level of funding: Crna Trava, Surdulica and Zaguvica. I have to say, that's weird for me. I don't have a logical answer, which is why I'm setting up a minister, because I don't think they've been able to make any more significant shifts in economic development in the past 11 years since the start of this law. I don't believe the situation in these municipalities is good. As all municipalities differ, I will mention the data published in one daily list the other day. For example, the average net profit in Serbia is now 19,670 dinars. The six highest averages in Serbia are: Beocin 28.500, Kosjeric 27.100, Lajkovac 26,000, Apatin 25.600, Belgrade 25,000, Vrsac 23.600. The six lowest averages in Serbia are Svrljig 6,900, Bela Palanka 7,300, Leskovac 7,300, Bojnik 8,000, Vlasotince 8,200 and Medvedja 8.600. I think this data is worth mentioning because they're talking about a state of local self-government. Generally speaking, local self-government has many problems. I think the existing Law on Local Self-Government has created a series of problems from the point of view of the functioning of local self-government. With the current Law on Local Self-Government, we created a different system, if it can be called a system, in local self-government: we created a mini-presidential system at a local level, a man first, most elected, and we have elected committees according to the proportional electoral system. We practically made the president of the municipality have great powers, that if there is no agreement between the party in the municipality and the president, then that leads essentially to the failure of local self-government. Then, believe it or not, it happens that the president of the municipality, as someone legally competent to dispose of the budget, is simply for party reasons, given that he is the commanding officer for the implementation of the budget under Article 41. The law on local self-government does not want to put its signature on and the funds transferred to function as local self-government. But that's Serbia, too. It just says how much trouble there is in local self-government and that this existing law needs to be changed. After all, you saw these series of re-scheduling elections at local level, whether it's the president of the municipality or the disbanding of the municipality's assembly due to the failure of the initiative, so calling elections for the council committees of the municipality, that says the Law on Local Self-Government is wrong. It's part of this story, and today it just needs to be mentioned. It is not good for the Law on Local Self-Government and should be amended as well as the Law on Local Elections, because, essentially, as elections take place, either for the president, the first six months of the election campaign for the president of the municipality, so the initiative fails, and then several months more for the councils for the councils, and during that time local self-government is failing and citizens suffer. Not to mention that the reduced role of citizens in local self-government, that these forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government were absolutely second-guessed, that the role of councilors was practically reduced to the voting machine, that, starting with the analogy made in connection with the Supreme Court's decision that the terms of office belong to the MPs were passed on to the local level. Thus, individual council members in the municipalities' congregations, regardless of what was proposed by the parties and political parties, led a campaign for their election, with honorable exceptions, because of this Constitutional Court decision, appeared as owners of their mandate, moved to some side and caused chaos in the functioning of local self-government. It's an objectively shiny problem. When you add if there are enough resources, then you can see how difficult it is for citizens at the level of local self-government, especially if they live in an economically underdeveloped municipality. There's one more thing to mention. I asked Mr. Secretary if he had any information on the receptions of the president of the municipalities and the director of public enterprises. It would also be interesting to hear how many employees have been raised in local self-government since 2000, so to speak. We had one media campaign until 2000 by the opposition then to create a functional system that should have an optimal number of employees. It was essentially an invitation to reduce the number of employees, to make local self-government available to citizens, so that citizens could participate in the affairs of local self-government, so that their initiatives could be accepted. Formal and voiceful, everything was directed towards better solutions. After the September elections, locals, in 2000, when the opposition in large numbers of municipalities became the government, a huge number of these municipalities were received by at least one third of those people. Believe me, when you look at the number of employees at the level of local self-government, according to the data we own, it's hard to find a municipality that didn't increase by at least one third by the number of people. And they'll be financed from these funds. It speaks for itself and for the way local self-government works. Everyone hurried to hire their friends, relatives, and others, not taking care of other tasks that local self-government has. The minister mentioned here, within the incomes of local self-government, that property taxes also go into the jurisdiction of municipalities, i.e. no more funds will be transferred, but will be original funds, and the minister told us that there are rates from - to. Believe me, Minister, if I'm wrong, I'll publicly apologize to the presidents of the municipalities, but believe me, everyone will use that -- until. Everyone will take the maximum rate that the law allows to increase the tax on property, because it will always explain that local self-government does not have enough resources and that funds are always necessary for the functioning of local self-government. I'm saying this because there are a lot of anomalies in that part too. You know, for example, there are municipalities in Belgrade where certain streets have been declared an extra zone, and I don't question that. Inside that is one illogical thing – that for buildings, houses, old ones, believe me, some of the scavengers that are in those streets, these people who own apartments, these immovableities pay a huge tax on property. Knowing how local self-government works, but let me be wrong, the moment people from the IRS start taking over, and when the law comes into force in that part, everyone will say that those funds are necessary for the functioning of local self-government. And not only with that tax, but also with other taxes. Wherever there is that possibility from - to local self-government will use the highest possible rate, because the funds of local self-government will never be enough. If you look at essentially how local self-government works and the behavior of individual community presidents, they are interested in just a few things: the more money, the longer the mandate and the bigger the power. Everything else is in the other plan, because these are three things that every president of the municipality or a huge number of presidents of the municipality are interested in. When it comes to financing facilities at the level of local self-government, and then looking for the help of the Republic, then the ministry needs appropriate, because there are previously started facilities, there are certain criteria, the ministry is not in a position to respond to the demands of all municipalities and then municipalities are coming around in different ways, and then there will be everything and everything. When I was talking about the irrational way of spending the funds, I'm going to take an example of Belgrade, in addition to these criteria that Mr. Minister spoke of. Mr. Minister, I think you should pay attention here to a little detail we saw here in Belgrade, that, unfortunately, when it came to financing in Belgrade, there was an invisible criterion called the political criterion. When events took place in the municipality of Surcin a few months ago, for example, we had a situation that an official of the City Assembly, at the address of the Head of the City Assembly, had suspended the transfer of money to the Assembly of Surcin and several months had not received any funds. Or, when it comes to the annual amount of money received by local self-government, we have noticed that, for example, certain municipalities in Belgrade where socialists are participating in government receive less funding from year to year, which is abnormal, because, as a rule, financial resources are increasing everywhere; the second question is whether these funds are sufficient, let alone when the financial resources are reduced. As for the way you spend money, so here, when you go to the Assembly with this sidewalk to Slavija, you'll see by it that you need its reconstruction, and it was made two years ago, with the claim that it would last 100 years. Of course, someone, let me say, has charged a lot of money and will renovate it again and the money will be spent again. I mentioned several times how work was done, i.e. that there were fewer than 8-9m euros in the Belgrade City Assembly's construction land fund in the final accounts. There are performers at the level of local self-government who get jobs no matter how they work. The fact that they're building a space for elevators, that they're collapsing part of the building that they're making, which, for example, preschools don't do for months, it doesn't interest anyone, because unfortunately it's the possibility of having the money as they want, and then of course it's used for completely different purposes. One more question. Mr. Minister, it's clear to me, you've mentioned the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities more than once, but if the law has already provided for the establishment of a Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government then it would be logical for all five representatives from the Permanent Conference to be representatives of local self-government. No, it says three. I'm sorry, it doesn't have to, it would be logical, if a permanent conference of cities and municipalities brings together the presidents of the municipalities, then it would be logical for all five to be the presidents of the municipalities; whoever it is, let the conference choose. It says here three, why does it leave room for two people to be someone who doesn't represent local self-government originally? Because if the ministry, if the government appoints five representatives, it is logical that these five representatives will not be representatives of local self-government, there will be people who know how local self-government works, but will not be representatives of local self-government; then it would be perfectly logical that these five representatives appointed by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities will be the president of the Assembly of the municipalities or the City Assembly. Logically, my colleague, Hrana Peric, has submitted one amendment, it seems to me that it would be logical for one representative from those underdeveloped municipalities to be among those five. I think that would improve this whole system that's trying to create itself, and it seems to me that it's perfectly logical what I'm drawing attention to. So, at the very end, it is good that this law is being discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is good to have redistributed funds. The essential question that we Socialists ask, by supporting this law, is whether this redistribution of funds will be enough to function in local self-government? And, I would ask Mr. Minister to, in the course of or at the end of the debate on this law, if possible, explain these things regarding the funds for Black Grass, Zagubovic and Surdulic, given that these municipalities are underdeveloped, and according to this new model, they do not receive a dinar of funds more than previous solutions, and it seems to me that these municipalities are necessary and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27762	Thank you. The word has the finance minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27763	Thank you. Let me answer this question right now that you've asked twice. I already said that in a relative sense 42 municipalities will have the same amount of funds, in absolute terms they will all get more. Since the transfer in 2006 was 15.4 billion dinars, that is, as you know, it was voted this year, because since last year it's been distributed, and the transfer for 2007... I wrongly said 21-22 billion, now my colleague corrected me, the transfer in 2007, if officially confirmed that the rate of growth of the gross domestic product was 6.5%, given how long it was before, would be 27.7. So the total amount of transfers for local self-government in 2007 will, according to the current state, be 27.7 billion dinars, that is 80% higher in absolute terms compared to the previous one. Of course, it should be borne in mind that the municipality will lose one part of its salary tax revenue when this tax reduction law is passed. That's why we went with such a high increase that there would be more room left to feel better. A concrete answer for these three municipalities – I was as surprised as you when I got from professional service simulations. The explanation is this: in the previous law, except for these criteria that exist now, there is also a criterion that was introduced by the parliamentary amendment, and it was called the degree of development, which was quite arbitral and mainly our professional service used social product data per capita as a level of development criterion, where all these three municipalities had a very low social product per capita, because the poor municipalities and thus received a larger amount of transfer. Now, on the proposal of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, this criterion has been thrown out and, as you can see, in Article 42 you have the number of inhabitants, the area of territory, the number of primary and secondary education departments, the number of primary and secondary education facilities, and you also have the number of children covered by direct child protection, and these are the criteria that the Permanent Conference of Cities itself has proposed. When these criteria apply to these data, when these data are simply applied, one paradox is really obtained – that Black Grass is actually based on these criteria that are now being given and something more relative than it should have been, as well as these other two municipalities. That's the answer, I know it sounds absurd, because it's undeveloped municipalities, but the fact is that when you apply these criteria you literally get according to the statistical data of this distribution that we've given you in addition. But I repeat once again that no community will get the same, it will get more and more, only some will get much more, and some will get a little more. That's the difference. Even cities, which lose in a relative sense, since the absolute amount of transfers will increase, will get something more, but there will be little increase. Another answer to this question about the local self-government financing commission. Essentially, representatives of cities and municipalities elect members of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. This is a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities that we have introduced, to be five members of them, of which three members of the president of local self-government. They really said in a public debate that at least one of them would be from underdeveloped municipalities, so what you last said, but this is a matter of simple trust among the people who make up a local conference of cities and municipalities. You choose those representatives and I must say that the members of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities that are not representatives of local self-government have actually contributed to some of these solutions. So far they have shown, it seems to me, of course, to the presidents of the municipality to say, that they have tried to keep accounts balanced on everyone, because their proposal is to make this redistribution towards poorer municipalities, their proposal is to nail the percentage of gross domestic product, so that there is no right for any minister to be an absolute transfer and to give these criteria objectively, that statistics can measure them, that there can be no arbitration in the relative position of a certain municipality. So I think this is a good solution, but I'm saying, just so far, there's been no doubt about those representatives who worked. Surely someone from an underdeveloped municipality must be present, and these are the members of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities confirmed. As far as this question of yours is concerned, whether a lower-class municipality has gone higher, I don't have that information, it has a Statistics Office. I'm going to ask the Bureau of Statistics to get your MP's group to make sure that's accurate.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27764	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27765	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I fully agree that the Assembly should have discussed a law that would have defined the way of funding local self-government, but also before this law was to be in the process of the Bill on City Finance and City Municipalities, Mr Minister, because it is obvious that the current system of functioning of city municipalities, in accordance with their statutes, works in a political way. That's what you're aware of, even on a republican level, was the functioning of municipalities in a political way. Now, the bill only reduces such a possibility in one part, but still the ministry responsible for finance affairs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia can extend certain municipalities, where their representatives are the presidents of municipalities or where they form some coalition majority in the congregations. If this had to be preceded by this law, it is also seen by the behaviour of the Belgrade city's leaders, as they constantly dress up, self-cosmetic, city centre, without some serious reason for such investments, while poor municipalities simply do not have basic civilizational fluids, such as water, sewage, not to talk about roads etc. In the responsibilities and original incomes shown here in Article 6. The bill, already in paragraph 1, shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia retains certain rights, at point 1) – the unit of local self-government is the original income realised on its territory, and this: the property tax. Now, Mr. Minister, step out for this pay phone and tell the MPs and citizens of Serbia what the percentage of the tax on property is. Go out and say it's the tax most difficult to charge and that's the tax whose base is most difficult to determine. So, that kind of taxation, which is hard to collect, you define for local self-government, and you reserve the right that you decide on the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and gifts, which are part of the paid incomes of local self-government, but the percentage of payments, etc. You determine, Ministry, etc. So, when it comes to these taxes, their billing is pretty easy. In order to achieve any transfer of absolute rights, he must first, with a contract or judicial solution, or in any other way, to go to the tax administration, where they will write him the value of the property, how much tax he has to pay, so when he decides to transfer all the property to himself he will have to prove, during the transfer, that that tax has been executed. You keep that to yourself. Where it's the hardest to charge taxes, you put it on local self-government. One more thing, when it comes to the property tax, you just act like you don't care how local self-government pays for it. You want local self-government to suffer the consequences of bad government at the level of the Republic. And with full right, you're in power in just two municipalities of over 120-130, so you'll eventually have problems in two municipalities, but they won't have to make up for it so rigorously, because by means of the transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, you'll make up for it. Do not talk about the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, as it is some large and smart association that cares about local self-government, because, unfortunately, you have to admit, whether or not they want to, the DS still exercise power in Serbia, and that authority is doing just with the help of G17 and DSS at the local level. All those representing the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities are DS, possibly someone from the DSS, may have someone from the G17, but they are the ones who determine the policy of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. So, on the republican level, you're supposed to be with them in a row over the theft and crime of the previous government, the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, now you're representing yourself as legalists, honest people, and basically, together with the Democratic Party, you're doing local things that you've been doing so far at the republican level. When it comes to this Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, it should not interfere with the financing of local self-government, at least not in this way as it is envisaged behind its representatives. Why don't you, for example, define to the local self-government some tax revenue that is easier to collect than a property tax? Isn't it easier to define that one of the incomes is a tax on use, holding and carrying goods? Because you tax that income, you keep it to yourself alone, and it is already evident that in the original revenues of local self-government they can charge the same taxes that you would have to give them as local administrative fees and utility taxes. In Article 7, it is said... Good afternoon, Mr. President of the Bor Municipality. On behalf of and on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I congratulate you on your election for the President of the Municipality of Bor and the citizens of Bor. Article 7 states: "The rates of original income, as well as the way and criteria for determining the height of local taxis and fees are determined by the local self-government unit assembly, in accordance with the law. "So that's where you gave it the right to the local self-government to determine what the tax on property is and you say – it just can't make a decision to be bigger than it's regulated by law. How is that going to have a right to fact when you collect a tax like that? Those municipalities that are poor and cannot reduce the tax rate will keep the property tax as prescribed by the law. The municipalities that are being overrun, and there are such, will begin to reduce certain taxes that have been paid to them, in order to gain certain political points, not for the sake of quality, or tax relief in the interests of the citizens. In this way, the property that is located in smaller and poor municipalities is even more worthless, especially when it comes to immovable property, because such property cannot be moved from municipality to municipality, it is even more wasteful at its value, while the property that is in municipalities that have a better financial situation is even more expensive. It would be better if you wanted to help local self-governments who were in charge of taking care of the economy in their environments and to enable them to function normally with their local policy, that, as you thought well at the republican level to reduce the income tax to 10%, why don't you give that tax to local self-governments. In this way, you would stimulate investors to invest in those municipalities where the profit tax is lower. Not to say that these poorer municipalities and how they are interested in such a kind of tax reduction, to attract potential investors, to hire their citizens and solve major economic, social and other problems in the territory of the municipality, rather than the property tax, which is generally the most difficult to collect. So you expect the president of the municipalities, of some others, to sneak around people's houses and check their size, to make a list of their assets, to determine their tax base. You do it, Mr. Minister, that's why you're a minister. Let the Republic Tax Administration do it, that's why it exists. Furthermore, it says in Article 15: "Local municipal fees can be introduced to keep motor road and connection vehicles apart from agricultural vehicles and machinery". Mr. Minister, you're already taxing it. We have a tax on holding, using and carrying goods. Now let local self-government, because it has no right to have that tax, introduces local taxes. There is also the holding and use of water facilities and water appliances and other facilities on the water. The same, Mr. Minister. So, there's a tax on use, keeping and carrying goods, and let's now and local self-government to cut off municipal taxes in that part, and you collect that tax and then you go out for this pay phone and you claim that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in surplus, there's more money than it needs, and that extra money came from being forced by local self-government, because we have the right to make that income, to introduce taxes. Simply, that income is made by scratching the skin off the back of taxpayers. Further – keeping and using boats and rafts on water. So again regulated by tax on use, holding and carrying goods. Then – keeping the restaurant. In Article 15, point 8) says – keeping domestic and exotic animals. I'd love to see if anyone's gonna be chasing parrots and canaries around the houses. Or cat, it's hard for a cat to determine. That was the only way to determine Vojislav Kostunica. Further: "The government will determine the maximum amount for local municipal taxes under Item 1 1), 2) and (3) of this member, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which will first get the opinion of the Commission on the financing of local self-government." Local communal fees – from point 1) is to highlight the company in business space; 2) to highlight and print the company outside of business space on facilities and premises belonging to the local self-government unit; 3) to hold motor road and connection vehicles, except for agricultural vehicles and machinery. Mr. Minister, tell me, in which municipality did it happen that, individually, the criteria for the company were defined, so the individual criteria for determining one user of the business space that would point out his firm? I guess it's arranged for everyone, there's no advantage here, there's no one who's doing a good job, so let's get more money for them, there's no one whose job is worse, we're not going to take anything or less. Such acts are passed on to everyone, not to the individual. The explanation you're giving here is at least ridiculous. This still needs to be left to the local self-government to determine it. What a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and the Ministry! On the one hand you're talking about decentralisation, and here even on their original incomes, which so far have been exclusively in their jurisdiction, and they've determined the amount of municipal taxis themselves, now you say -- no, it can't anymore, that decentralisation story doesn't work, now we're going to determine it for you, you can only zero, and we're the most. Furthermore, Article 32 states: "The local authority of the funding authority shall keep records of the revenues obtained from the leases per user". So the following point is said: "The revenues of Article 1 are used for the purchase, construction, running repairs and maintenance of buildings and buildings and supplies and maintenance of equipment". Mr. Minister, that's the story from the beginning of my presentation. You can do that in municipalities that aren't city halls. What are we going to do in city halls when those in those revenues provide salaries for employees in municipalities and authorities of the administration? How do we deal with them? We don't have a law on financing city halls. So that Bogdanovic is not acting like a monarch, he can in any way define the funds of the municipalities where he is in power, and in municipalities where he does not define any means. Now and for the incomes that are the original incomes of such municipalities, you define to them where these revenues will be spent. It's simply how you can bring local self-government into the city environments to stop working. Furthermore, Article 35 states - local self-government units belong to the following taxes achieved on its territory: 1) income tax on citizens, income from agriculture and forestry, self-employed activity, immovableity, lending to mobile things, insurance of persons. Further – The Republic shall grant a unit of local self-government revenue from fees incurred in the territory of the unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law: annual compensation for motor vehicles, environmental pollution compensation, water-flowed material, forest-use compensation, water-use compensation. Mr. Minister, all these fees and taxes are either not paid in appropriate amounts or you do not pay at all, especially when it comes to forest charges, because the "Serbishum", which you control as a political party, do not pay anyone anything, nor does the Republic of Serbia refute any revenue to local self-government, although these same public enterprises exploit and destroy and do not participate in the maintenance of such roads. So this is just the stated form of doing, to cover your eyes. Or say in the law - income tax, 100%, 90%, 80%, or 70%, as you tried to solve in a member who regulated the transfer funds of local self-government. One more thing, Mr. Minister. We'll come back later, when there's a debate on details, to this Standing Conference, and in this way to fund local self-government. You see what a scam Mladjan Dinkic is up to. The annual amount of the total non-intentional transfer allocated to local self-government units shall be 1.7% of the gross domestic product achieved according to the latest published information of the Republic authority responsible for statistics affairs. The latest data from the Republic's statistical authority in 2004, it is less than projected for this year by 600 billion dinars. Calculate, 600 billion dinars times 1.7%, so you'll see that Mladjan Dinkic cuts local self-government between nine and ten billion dinars, and this is where he talks about some fairer way of funding local self-government. Mr. Minister, in our amendments, we've asked for the regulation to which day the statistical authority's competent authority has to publish the data for the previous year. Given that all companies and all legal and natural persons engaged in any activity or natural persons through cumulative tax accounts, and legal persons 28.2. in the current year should submit the final account for the previous year, with this information system which also has the tax administration, both the NBS and the Business Registers Agency, the competent statistics authority should publish the data for a maximum of three months from obtaining such data, so that it also needs to be created a legal obligation so as not to rob local self-governments in this way. It is necessary to create a legal obligation, especially in view of the budget revenue for this activity he is carrying out, and especially given that he is in the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that needs to cloud our eyes about how to live better than when this government is in power. Therefore, because of all these irregularities, which are within the law itself, the SRS will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27766	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the MP Sava Urosevic, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27767	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a law on funding local self-government which is multiplely interesting. He's interesting in the way he came into existence and because he's indifferent to other laws, because he had a very broad public debate that gave rise to the proposal that came before you. This law was created in the right way. It was created as a fruit of co-operation by two opposing sides. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance, on which local self-government often made remarks about the level of funds transferred from the republican to the municipal level, on the other hand was the NGO Permanent Conference of Cities, as a representative of these so far very often dissatisfied local self-government. The bill that is before us was created according to the model made by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, and with some small modifications and changes from the Ministry of Finance we have come to this proposal. I think it's important that before I begin to discuss the law itself, I also say a small history of such a level of transfer funds over the last few years, because the annual law, which this assembly has passed three times, has always caused many controversy. For 2004, the annual law, to call it that, was transitional, because the future emergence of value added tax and the elimination of income tax of 3.5% has changed the system of funding for local self-government. In 2005, we had for the first time transfer funds that appeared in the annual law as finished figures and caused dissatisfaction with the representatives of most local self-government. Also, in the 2005 annual law, income tax appears as a significant source with 30% of the total income tax on the territory of a municipality. In fact, these were funds transferred to local self-government, so that in 2006, we would have a proposal to relocate funds, which according to agreement, this time with the Standing Conference of Cities, increased by 19.9%, and for cities 5% and 40% in participation of income tax. What is characteristic of this law? In addition to saying that it is a characteristic way of producing it, and it is a fully democratic procedure, we have something that is now a security – for the first time the amount of transfer funds is tied to a gross social product, so that it could be predictable for local self-government for every year. And not only for one year, but also for many years in advance, given the fact that the amount of 1.7% in the law binds to at that time a well-known gross social product, and this is not about any fraud, I'm going to commit a little bit to the presentation of the previous colleague. For the first time, there is now a percentage of gross social product as a limiting factor, i.e. a source for the number of transfer funds. That's not what it's been until now. In order to make the explanations and comparisons of the current law and model provided for in this law clearer, it was then related to the gross social product and it was 1,175 known gross social product, i.e. the 2004 gross social product, which amounted to 1,310 billion, so it is not a fraud. It had to come from something and it came from a gross social product of 1,310 billion and a forecast for 2007, it's moving to over 2,000 billion, and for 2006, it's supposed to be about 1,900 billion, but that's something that doesn't matter for this law. A gross social product for 2005 is important, as it will be the basis for determining the transfer funds for local self-government for 2007. This forecasts a growth of around 350 billion, so the gross social product will be 1,650 billion and the transfer funds will be slightly less than 28 billion. This will fully cover what is assumed to be a deficit in the local self-government budgets, which is the money from the profit tax, because according to simulations and budgets made in the ministry, due to the reduction in the income tax rate from 14 to 12 and the introduction of an untaxable price of 5,000 dinars, the reduction of total revenues on that basis will be around 31 billion. Given the fact that about 40% of these revenues go to local self-government, that's 12 billion, and I just mentioned a $28 billion figure compared to 15.4 billion, how much the transfer funds are now, means that the whole republican budget will bear the burden of cutting the income tax, that local self-government will not even feel it. That's one aspect. Another aspect is that we also have to look at the positive fact of this law on income tax cuts, because this law should stimulate employment, so that incomes on this basis will increase, i.e. the basis at which the rates are applied will increase, so that total revenues will increase. What should certainly be pointed out when it comes to this bill is that it further balances transfers per capita in Serbia's municipalities depending on the fiscal force of a particular municipality. We have already heard from this pay phone that without a transfer to equalization, without the transfer funds used to balance this relationship between the most developed and the most underdeveloped municipality 1:16, that in the existing law this relationship is reduced to 1:10, and what is particularly positive, this relationship will, when adopted, be reduced to 1:5.6 and that is something that enables even development. It is certainly not the only source of ensuring even development. There are other incentive funds at the level of the Republic which are working on equating the development of municipalities, but this contribution from the transfer funds is certainly significant. The pre-election promise of most parties, and certainly the party G17 plus, is that when the party G17 plus will be in power, as it is now, there will be decentralisation. This law shows the first steps towards decentralisation, i.e. this is about fiscal decentralisation and a very significant tax passes into the original incomes. What follows this change, from the level of income paid by property tax to the original incomes of local self-government, and with this administration of this tax, therefore, local self-government has been able to start taking charge and administration of this tax since 1 December 2006. Why is this significant? This tax is known to have a very low charge. The payment of this tax has so far moved around 40% and the explanation for this is the small interest of the Republic tax administration and the inability, insufficient number of people and insufficient resources to monitor and charge this tax. Another thing that is characteristic of this tax is that the records of property at the level of the Republic, and hence at the level of local self-government, are not good enough, that this property is not recorded in a 100% amount, not nearly 100%. An example of this is the Municipality of Paracino, which has been self-initiated over the past few years working on a list of assets and has reached the data, when that list is completed, that property in the territory of the Municipality of Paracin is twice as large as the one that has been conducted so far in the tax administration records. Why is it logical for this tax to become the original income of local self-government? It is logical that construction inspections that give permission to build buildings, which is mainly property on which taxes are charged, therefore, municipal services. And, with the right communication between one municipal authority, construction inspection, urban inspection, urban authorities and local tax administrations, it is easy to get data on what the property of a local self-government does, and beyond that administration, i.e. the issuing of solutions and the monitoring of charges, is much closer to those of the tax administration local authorities than that of some of the Republic Tax Administration. Among other things, the transfer of property tax to original income increases the percentage of the original incomes in the total revenues of a local self-government, a recommendation from the Council of Europe and a strong support of the Council of Europe. If we are talking about the balanced development of the Republic of Serbia and the opportunities that undeveloped municipalities receive by this bill, we should certainly talk about three types of transfers that serve to even the incomes of local self-government per capita. It is a equalisation transfer used in cases where the revenues of a local self-government are lower than 90% of the republican average, excluding Serbian cities. This is a compensatory transfer, which is used in cases where no other type of transfer can compensate for the reduction of funds resulting from the change in tax rules and this is a phenomenon that has occurred before in the funds. And it's a transition transfer, which occurs in cases where neither of these other two transfers leads to a level, or where the funds of one local self-government have been reduced by more than 5%, but the average of the Republic. What else do I want to say? What's good at this point in this bill is the formation of a committee to monitor the financing of local self-government. It is a committee composed of representatives of the government, which is likely to be representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Self-Government and other stakeholders to solve this problem, and these are representatives of local self-government that will be proposed by the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities. Therefore, we have a modern European law, a law that regulates a very important matter, which has not been so far, because this is the first law on funding local self-government; so far, the financing of local self-government has only been resolved through the Law on Local Self-Government. One part has been drawn, transformed into a law on the financing of local self-government, which through these development stages I talked about, means in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 budget, and for 2007, I think completely, arranged the financing of local self-government in a transparent way. It contains, I must say, all the good experiences from the current way of funding, plus they add to that some new techniques that have increased the public of this funding. The G17 plus parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of this law, but I also call on other parliamentary groups to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27768	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. I give the word to the messenger of the people Branislav Stevanovic, and let the messenger of the people of Mit Abram be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27769	Ladies and gentlemen, we followed the work of the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities, and we had one of their proposed laws on the property of local self-government. It was the initiative of the president of municipalities and mayors, it was an important law, it suddenly gave up, it is not known for what reason, but of course the government is not responding. Then there was a compromise solution, which is this bill on funding local self-government. This law certainly has a number of good proposals, meaning it improves the position of poor municipalities that will receive larger funding; another newspaper, it's a commission to finance local self-government, everything else exists in other laws, so when we had a debate on the budget and the budget system and on the distribution of funds by municipalities, then we had two amendments, very good, when it comes to more equal distribution of funds. It was also done that a law was passed on the property of local self-government certainly to make this proposal excessive. Therefore, a series of problems that we have from earlier authorities and these present ones, normally to continue continuity in the same way, and above all in these laws are not envisaged, and the mechanisms themselves that need to be found, which is to control budget spending. Unfortunately, simply in practice it does not exist and the reason should be known, and that means that the authority that could have previously available these funds, of course if they go to check the spending of these funds, that they too will have some sort of event, and certainly it is a bad habit that has been going through for years with us. On one occasion, at the SO session, I suggested that the business of local communities be audited, meaning end-users of transfer funds, and of course it was finger-tiping in around those who are in power, because unfortunately, it should be pointed out that the presidents of local communities, down to the ministries, to the government, there is no real control of the spending of funds and there are huge manipulations, which is inadmissible. I'm just going to give a little example of a local community. If we were to control the work of a local community, we would see that ten years ago the same works are being carried out and the same funds are listed, which means that most of these funds must be pointed out that they end up in private pockets, not for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. It should also be pointed out that the overauthority of the president of the municipalities, one of the reasons that previous speakers stated, is that the Law on Local Self-Government should suffer certain changes. We know many cases in Serbia, how and how power is purchased and what power is and what domination. Practically, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, the president of the municipality has more than 90% of the government himself. Also, this law mentions self - contribution, which can be implemented in two ways, a referendum and the signing of locals, which did not show well in practice. It didn't turn out well because there is a series of manipulations about signing the initiative itself. Normally, a huge number of citizens are asked after who suggested it, however, it is likely that even 20% of people sign that initiative on self-indulgence and are then put into practice. We also have to say that in this law we have European penalties and taxes, but unfortunately, we know what incomes our citizens have and in general when it comes to small businesses and the stimulation of these smaller businesses that they are absolutely nothing, because we have examples in the state of how many stores are closed and how many small businesses have put locks on the door. Therefore, we have no regard for what we should have in the future. There have been distributions across certain municipalities, however, the control of the spending of these funds and employment in these small businesses has also not been done, it has been done more politically, and this is the product of the enormous dissatisfaction of our citizens, who by their abstinence show how much they believe in political parties; it is also necessary to mention the miserable behaviour of these quasi-domestics, the people, who are already promoting themselves, and these are the same people who have dominated the political scene for years, and now they are joining together to re-defy the people in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27770	The word of the messenger of the people is Mita Abram; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zivorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27771	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this law, as well as the previous law and all other laws, have their own particular failures and major problems, especially as far as local self-government is concerned, as far as Serbian citizens are concerned. And this time, both the Ministry and this government are building some interest. They set themselves up towards citizens as if they were some kind of factory that produces something and is afraid of being in some deficit and taking money from the people to have that surplus, as Minister Dinkic has shown to have surpluses in the budget. He boasts about it, and as citizens live on a local level, it's a completely different story, which they don't care about. In fact, they're only interested in these citizens at certain times, and these moments are called elections. When the elections come, they talk, they promise the citizens towers and cities and they need votes from the citizens; only at the moment when the elections are over they forget about the citizens. As for the Serbian Radical Party, such a case is not, we work exclusively in the interest of all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's right, there's proof there on the local level, where our representatives, the heads of the municipalities, where the mayors are, etc. That's where politics got involved, and I can prove it. In 2004, when the Serbian Radical Party in the municipality of Šid, the transfer of funds from the Republic to the municipality was 60 million dinars, so that already in 2005, after defeating the Serbian Radical Party, the transfer would be reduced by the Republic to 48 million dinars. For 2006, for this year, we haven't reached another 60 million since 2004. Now we have a transfer of 58 million dinars. Gentlemen, isn't there a policy involved? We've got 30% inflation. To add that 30% to those 60 million dinars in 2004, it means the Shid municipality should get 78 million dinars. Where did the money end up? Do they see it as Mita Avram, the president of the municipality, and give him no money? It's not money for Mita Avramov, it's money for all citizens living in the territory of local self-government, in the territory of the Shidh municipality. I can tell you that the Shidian municipality is a multinational environment. We represent all nations, help everyone, from religious objects to cultural goods, to their traditions, etc. It can be checked by anyone who's interested in it. It is mentioned here that a committee will be formed to fund local self-government. Why do we need the formation of another commission that will be at the expense of that ministry again, and we already have a budget inspection? Let him control that budget inspection. Let him also control this transfer that goes to the municipalities and come to the municipality and control whether these funds are used or used as he wishes. In municipalities such as Shid, which is the only devastated municipality in Vojvodina, instead of getting some more funding to get out of this devastation, we are still losing funds. It wasn't just the Shid municipality in that project, it was... You see, the interesting thing is: Thirteen devastated municipalities were in Serbia when this new coalition government was formed. The 13 municipalities met, made a declaration, signed the declaration, directed the ministry to meet these municipalities, to find the possibility of the government and how it will help these municipalities. Until today, we've received no response from the government. To make the tragedy even bigger, three other municipalities were declared devastated municipalities. We're not 13 anymore, we now have 16 devastated municipalities. Is this direction where this government and this ministry take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It would be a shame for me to show some surplus in the territory of local self-government. It means I didn't spend that dedicated budget money where it was supposed to be spent, that I denied someone something. In this case, Minister Dinkic denied Serbian citizens. Every time he shows his surplus, certain funds are denied. That should be clear for everyone. What did we get? Under the new law proposed by the minister, the characteristics of the law are said to be property tax, which is transferred to the hands of local self-government. So local self-government should chase its citizens, charge taxes on that property from them, and we all know very well how citizens live in the territory of every local self-government, especially where the municipality is devastated. I don't think that's right and it's not fair. So the minister said -- it's no problem, 100% of the funds remain for local self-government, and local self-government can decide not to charge anything and forgive citizens. So what's left of us, but to forgive the citizens who don't have money for the basic needs of life in the 21st century, and not to go and steal their last dime or, God forbid, we go to somebody to prey on. Serbia's radical party does not think of it and will never take it from its people, but will always look to help its people. There's nothing left for us, we've talked to the ministries more than once, to the government for help, but it's unsuccessful. What did we do? We turned abroad. Well, when this government, which is obliged to help citizens and to take care of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have spoken to some abroad, some of us have managed in some way, has come to the top people who are and are interested in investing and donate to local self-government. That's the case with our local self-government, we have an exceptional co-operation with Sweden. You said, "When the SRS comes to power no one from the West will contact, they are for wars, they are murderers, they are not like this, they are like this." Well, you see, it's not true. So, S.H.I.E.L.D. is working with the Swedes, the Kickindas with the Norwegians, and I'm not listing the other municipalities they found abroad as donor funds, imagine. People came, delegations came, they saw we have natural resources, we have natural resources, but we don't enjoy it at the local level either. And it takes all of our provinces and republics. When I asked for compensation for 3% of the forest cut, I got the answer that it couldn't go back to the municipality, but these funds were refunded through young seedlings, new plantings, etc. And what is destroying the infrastructure in that municipality has absolutely nothing to do with it. Let me tell you that the Vojvodina is located right in Shida, in the local government of Shid. Why do I say that? Because the Shidian municipality has 26% of the territory under the forest, and only a lube oak. It's nowhere, only in Srem and a few less municipalities. The Shid is far ahead and the Vojvodina are in Shid, and the Shid has absolutely nothing to do with it. We stand up, and we will support that law when it comes, that local self-government manages with the resources it has on its territory, so we will see if we are devastated or not devastated. Imagine what happened, about Shida again, but it's all politics again because the SRS is in power. We have coalition partners, too. Let me tell you, we have shown the highest degree of democracy since the 2004 elections. As the newly elected president of the Municipality of Šid, I have invited all relevant parties who have entered the Assembly of the Municipality of Šid and offered absolute co-operation to all, on average, as many as the party has represented committees, to work together and to help the municipality and all citizens in the territory of the municipality of Šid. They didn't all accept, they didn't. I called it in front of the cameras, and they said, "Ow, don't do that, let's make a deal behind closed doors. Well, that door's gonna open tomorrow when we do, so it's gonna come back to light again, there's no secrets. However, many parties did not want to accept, they are afraid of the SRS, I don't know why. Because we gave them a hand? So isn't our hand fair? We will prove that the most honest hand of the SRS is in Serbia. We got the government's conclusion, all the municipalities got it, now let's have someone deny me that it's not, to cut 10% in the management of the number of workers with a reason that if it doesn't work, the transfer will be lifted from us by the Republic. The Shid municipality, having Serbian radicals there, was the first to implement the conclusion by the ministry. Just listen to what I'm saying, and it'll be clear to you, dear colleague. It's all about the law, you'll understand. We made that conclusion, we made a new systemization. With the new systematization of nine workers, there were surpluses in the administration; they were given a solution to the indifference and adequate severance for all the years of their work experience, so that they could sue after all that, to find themselves offended. And they were still in the court when they asked them, and We said, “We thought that we were rewarded because we did good, that that is why we received the money.” The administrative inspector, since he's from the DS, and not from any other party, has ordered all these unscheduled workers to return to their jobs. It is ordered by the point of the law where it is said – if not all return to work immediately, the head of the municipal administration will be fined by 20,000 dinars per member. So they're nine to 180,000 dinars. If we don't do that, local self-government will be punished with a million dinars. And what could we have done? So the administrative inspector and his position are stronger than the government's conclusion. Somebody explain it to me here. So, he ordered, we had to, if not, pay the fine etc. We've put those workers back to work, they're still unscheduled. They received a year's worth, a little less than a year's work, funds from the bureau; they are now required to pay compensation for salaries they didn't have and to fund it by local self-government. So I ask where, from what means? Well, we'll hire another thousand workers, that's the least of the problems, just let the government give us the money. We'll hire people, we won't be unemployed, but this is where the mass is denied, the mass cannot be increased, and the wages remain in that mass as they are and wages in local self-government range from 8,000 to 17,000 dinars. Well, please nice. And you see what's going on -- the Ministry has some, where their heads are the presidents of the municipalities, even given money and paid for the severance. We got our own strength, we did it all, and we got a warrant to get back to work. Why? Because there were some people who were in DS, G17, you remember Albianic calling me at the Assembly for a pay phone. These people, we found them, they didn't do anything. They were on the burden of the municipality's budget, pulling a salary, but absolutely nothing was doing. That's why they were extra. I've cited these few examples for one simple reason, so you all know, to be aware she's absolutely involved in all politics. Where the G17 is in power at the local level, let's see how much money they got. I don't want to mention, I know about Srem, Irig and the Caves. Iriga needed money, because one of the poorest municipalities in Srem, I don't mind, but the Caves are no longer, and the Caves are already given. In Indjija, which is considered a showing municipality, as some advanced expert municipality, invests, which is being built, brought investors out of what countries, did not reduce the 10% government has ordered in the administration, so Minister Dinkic had to go there to order it to be done and implemented. He wasn't denied transfers from the Republic to India, even some privileges gave him, not to talk about it. I just wanted to say, the essence of all this is still politics, it's still going to be where the ruling coalition in power is more favourable, although it's not great there, and where they're radicals, I've given you an example of how radicals work – when they can't turn to the Government of the Republic for help, because they won't listen to us, we're turning abroad and believe that we have extraordinary co-operation and that people admire us as we work, in what way and that we've taken off the SRS. We will continue to do the same, and we will try, all the presidents of the local municipalities where the SRS is ruling, to satisfy all the interests of the citizens who live there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27772	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zivorad Smiljanić; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Srdjo Komazec.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27773	Right away, at a meeting, when there was a conference of cities, the presidents of the municipalities asked that part of the tax be transferred to municipalities, and then Minister Dinkic said he would. Now we get that, unfortunately, when we do a little bit of recalculating, I have a feeling we've got one hot potato, because basically now the Ministry has kept to itself VAT, excise taxes and taxes on profits where they shrink and these are positive points. We are now given to chase citizens and charge for what is a little problematic, but we asked, so what they say - look! However, I am sorry that the minister is not here, I wanted to ask questions about the law on the financing of local self-government. I have some doubts, since now self-indulgence is the income of the budget, and so far it has been in local communities, what fate the local communities will be in the coming period, although by law they do not have to exist, but they have been self-increasing with us for more than 40 years and they would not change it. Then, we have some doubts, Article 35 – the local self-government unit is the following taxes: first, the income tax, first of all from agriculture, that's a cataster of income, and that income has not been paid for two or three years, I don't know whether that ban will continue or likely be paid. Then, I wanted to ask a question about face insurance; so far we haven't had any income, and today this... I don't know what that's gonna mean. Second, under point 7) there are other revenues in accordance with the law. Is that what you're going to say, say at the bar, you're going to charge a tax on registered weapons, whether it's local self-government's income or not? At my place in Apatino, it would be good, especially on the unregistered, if I could tax, I'd have a very large income. In Article 36, it says - the Republic shall grant a unit of local self-government revenue from compensations incurred on the territory of a unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law. What does "law" mean? Have your laws been passed or will they be passed? I can't figure out now what the community's income is, because I don't know what it means, "in accordance with the law." If we got all this, we'd have a huge income, because so far, the compensation for the material extracted from the water, means sand, or compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, I know there was a 40% proportion of the provinces, 60% of the Republic. I want to know what that means for local self-government. Are we going to be 40% or don't I know how much of that fee? The fee for using natural healing factor – we have a situation that so far the municipality could ask for compensation for medicinal products, but so far for mineral waters no municipality has charged for, and neither the Municipality of Apatin, but the thermal springs used by spas are owned by NIS gas, and they charge us water and raise prices very often, but they don't pay the municipalities anything because they are their thermal sources. One question, which would be very important to us, for the Apatin municipality, capital tax, if we could get something here, and the company's profit tax. For example, our brewery has a huge profit. If we could get at least 5% of that for local self-government, that would mean a huge income. I'd like to say one more thing, we have a problem with how this service is going to divide, we have a building that started to be built for income management, so in 2000, it stopped. Now I'd like to finish it, but I can't get to the minister to try and get some help to finish it. Since under the Ministry of Finance this is face insurance and at all insurance, there is now one phenomenon, I don't know why it's done, huge funds are being poured into these insurance institutions from the health care sector. For example, I paid less than a million dinars for home insurance and a spa last year. Now, when this is provided by the Republic Fund, immediately the institutions were much more aggressive and now insurance is two and a half million, by giving me glass, insurance from burglaries and insurance from art paintings. So we'll have now, if the House of Health is a relatively small, 150 times the insurance; you can imagine how much insurance they'll pay for clinics. In some ways, huge resources from poor health are being poured into these high - footed insurance institutions. When you go to every building, it's all in granite and marble, personal incomes, health workers nowhere near, their maids have more than doctors. I don't know why it was done. And the insurance of workers -- with Delta, is a five-year contract; last year I paid 140, now 190. So they're much more aggressive now. Secondly, when we contracted insurance, since it was competition, they had to try to get us to accept their insurance, so I pay a million dinars, I get 800 grand to the damages. Now that I don't decide anymore, they charge a lot harder. That's another insurance issue. It's written in transitional terms... With me, that service works a lot, although I don't know how we're going to divide these workers, but in many municipalities there's a big problem. Transitional provisions say it can be the takeover of these services by municipalities by 2008. What will be the compensation for these tasks to be done by the Office of Revenue at the level of the Republic? So these are some of my misunderstandings. The most important concern, I want to be told what it means to be "in accordance with the law", Article 36, of all these fees to be paid by the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27774	The People's Messenger Srdjo Komazec has the word, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Subotic, and the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the financing of local self-government regulates the funding of units of local self-government to carry out original and trusted tasks. What kind of self-government is that when they have to be provided with funds from the republican budget? So the question arises where is the municipal property. The question is also raised, at the end of the line, about the constitutionality of the term "local self-government". The Law on Local Self-Government defines the municipality as local self-government. The Law on Local Self-Government in the existing Republic Constitution does not have its legal basis. It's simply been brought in another way, so these reasons have a number of shortcomings. These shortcomings include the issue of financial resources in the municipality. In short, the municipality has the right to self-rule, and the owner of its property is someone else. The municipality has its original incomes and incomes. As the incomes paid, especially the transfer funds, we know well in the municipality. What does the funding of the original transactions look like in practice and from the original revenues? I'll give you just one example, and that's an open tender for sewers in the Municipality of Stara Paz, which I'll talk about a little bit later. I believe this is a clear example of violation of constitutionality and legality, where the will of individuals is expressed. The question of legal status of self-dependence is also raised. The proposal for a law which is subject to consideration from Articles 20 to 31 refers to self-delivery, and raises the question whether it is the income of local self-government or the income of local self-government, i.e. local communities. This also raises the question whether self-delivery is a public income or not. We have major problems with the collection of self-dependencies and from agriculture, because income management can't get us a database for these two types of self-debt collection and it's not charged. Finally, it is also interesting for lawyers to question the transitional and final provisions of the law under consideration, where local self-government is said to be obliged to take over a number of employees from the Public Revenue Administration. Article 59 states that the application of this law ceases to apply Article 5 and Section V - the financing of the operations of the local self-government unit, with Articles 77 to 104. Law on local self-government. Therefore, it is interesting for lawyers how the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government can be amended, given that the Law on Local Self-Government is more general and more important than the law on the financing of local self-government. The draft law on the financing of local self-government, which is essentially a very important system law, only brings together existing legislation in the area of funding of local self-government in the integrated text of the law. The law does not propose a quality solution to the issue of funding local self-government, especially from the point of view of providing funds to municipalities to finance development programmes and solving problems in the part of local infrastructure. The proposed law does not contribute to the fiscal decentralisation of local self-government but, on the contrary, the same and even stronger ties to transfer funds from the Republic, rather than contributing to their economic independence and training by strengthening the basic original incomes of local self-government to address all problems of vital importance for the life and work of citizens. The law proposes solutions which leave the local self-governments at the disposal of the original revenue which is of less importance for financing budgetary spending, i.e. impose additional costs on the collection of the revenue concerned. The basic original revenue of the budgets that have functioned in the form of sales taxes on products and services has been replaced by the transfer funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which are transformed into several categories of these funds by the proposal for this law, so that the basic dedicated distribution of the funds in question is lost. By establishing a number of forms of transfer funds, such as transfer transfer, compensation transfer, transfer for unification, which is given priority by the draft law on the basis of the total amount of transfer, by establishing the amount of funds on the basis of the general transfer, thereby reducing the amount of transfers on the basis of general purpose by local self-governments which do not meet the criteria for the allocation of specific types of transfer. The proposed criteria for the allocation of funds based on general transfers do not contain all the elements for considering the complete problem of funding local self-government, because they are based on parameters such as: the number of inhabitants in the municipality, the area of territory covered by the municipality, the number of primary and secondary education departments, the number of facilities in secondary and primary education, and the number of children covered by direct childcare. Other criteria relating to other current data on the work of local self-government exclude the proposed criteria, so that the application of those criteria does not allow fair use of funds based on general transfers. The law should lay down detailed criteria for the allocation of other types of transfer, so that additional resources can be provided to municipalities, especially to address current problems in the area of infrastructure, as well as other problems, to address employment issues, to encourage development opportunities of municipalities, etc. The allocation of funds, as well as the establishment of a system of financing local self-government in general proposed by this law, significantly worsens the economic position of local self-government and puts it in a position to address vital functions of interest in the municipality using credit funds, which indirectly encourages the borrowing of municipalities and worsens their financial position. The proposed method of allocation of the transfer funds from the Republic's budget is essentially an instrument of redistribution, with the aim of achieving certain effects that are essential to achieving specific objectives, and cannot create conditions for the economic strengthening of local self-government. The proposal for a law on the financing of local self-governments, in the part of transitional and final provisions, introduces the obligation of local self-government to take over employees from the Ministry of Finance - the Tax Administration, who carry out tasks under Article 60 of the proposed law, starting on 1 December 2006, without considering the full organisation and staff structure in municipalities, as well as the implementation of the process of rationalising employees in local self-government, but imposes an additional obligation to finance the work of employees in the Tax Administration, which is essentially the resolution of technological surpluses of employees in the Tax Administration and the transfer of funding obligations, on that basis, on local self-government. The draft law did not take into account the possibilities of local self-government, in particular from the aspect of the financial resources used to obtain the necessary equipment and technical training of local self-government for revenue collection operations governed by this law. Also, local self-government has not been provided with a longer period of time to prepare and organise income collection, which is for the first time introduced in the context of local self-government activity. The adoption of the proposed text of the law and its implementation will significantly worsen the financial position of municipalities in general, further weaken economically and incapacitate the resolution of vital problems of importance for the work and needs of citizens in its territory. The bill puts the municipality in a position to use the debt of commercial banks under unfavourable conditions to address basic needs, which contributes to the destruction of the financial structure and introduces municipalities into the area of deficit financing. The further economic downturn of municipalities endangers not only the financial position of local self-government, but also contributes to the economic downturn of the Republic in general, given that funding systems are pervading and represent an organic continent. By applying the proposed law in the practice of local self-government, it will come into a situation that only administrative and technical tasks for the needs of citizens can be made available, far from the essence and function of local self-government, whose function is to provide optimal and quality conditions, as well as to address vital problems of importance for life and the work of citizens on their territory. Certainly, one of the problems of funding the local government is also the political party G17, which in the municipality of Stara Pazova, where I am the president of the municipality, is a lot of interference with the work of the municipality, especially in the construction of the infrastructure, which I will now present to you. I'll read you a statement from the press conference of the head of the vault office in the municipality of Stara Pazov, Zdravko Subotic, given on 7 June 2006: "I am currently doing such a job that I am in contact with the directors of 12 schools, we are doing some data processing, and I have tried to suggest to the directors that, in due course, there will be the possibility that part of the funding from this investment programme will be allocated to the Municipality of Stara Paz, but I think we all have to do one job together that is imminent, and that is to change the president of the Municipality of Stara Pazov". Imagine that the head of a municipality's vault branch is involved in politics and blackmailing the directors in order to eventually get some money, lying to them that they have to get involved in some kind of shift of the president of the municipality. I want to tell Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, as well as his unprofessional head of the municipality of Stara Pazova Municipality, Zdravko Sobotić, that the lack of blackmail and false promises, because everything they have done so far has been against the interests of the citizens of Stara Paz municipality and Serbia. Under the so-called The national investment programme, which allegedly has funds for the distribution of municipalities, is a false promise because it does not exist. It is placed by representatives of the political parties G17 plus and staff such as the chairman of the municipal board G17 plus in Stara Paza Zdravko Sutotic, who also serves as head of the vault branch in the municipality of Stara Pazov. The local self-government, which led me this year from its own original income, provided smooth functioning, 182.700,000 to cover material costs, investment maintenance and investment in pre-school, primary and secondary education. This is what local self-government has provided and is enough for the smooth functioning of education in the municipality of Stara Pazova, not the false promises of Zdravko Subotic and the party G17 Plus. Why am I stressing the intricacies of the head of the municipality of Stara Pazov Zdravko Subotic? It is clear to all of us that the head of the vault should be an economist, not that the important function is being performed by someone who finished the organization, as Zdravko Subotić, which has nothing to do with the economy. You can see from this what kind of frames G17 plus has. In addition, I want to highlight problems in the municipality of Stara Paz by G17 plus i.e. Minister Dinkic, the head of the vault, Zdravko Sutotic and the president of the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Provider Vladimir Ivic. We were planning on making 2,250 connections to the sewer system at the end of this year. However, we have a problem with public procurement because when an investment is made, the object is being resolved within 15 days for a few months. Since September, we can't start construction of sewers, because that's exactly what they're preventing, even though we have money, we have projects, machines, and everything we need to do to get the works started. On our objection to this commission, which is why we do not respond within 15 days, we received a response of 4-00-637/05 of 13.2.2006, which, among other things, states that the Commission's decision in the procedure in question was taken at the session held on 2 March 2006, which means that the decision was taken within the legal period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the complete dossier, as referred to in Article 141(1). Law on public procurement, i.e. before the end of the last day of the legal deadline for decision-making. Furthermore, the said Member of the law prescribes only a time limit within which the Commission is obliged to take a decision in the process of safeguarding the law, which means that the time limit of 15 days from the date of receipt of the complete dossier is not at the same time and the time limit within which the Commission is bound by law to submit the written correction of the decision made. Such a time-limit is not prescribed by the Act on Public Procurement. In other words, the law is being misused and it is waiting three or four months for the decision to be taken, which anti-dated that within 15 days, and that is why the citizens of the Municipality of Stara Paz suffer huge consequences, because this large investment project, such as the construction of the sewerage network, cannot take place and it is currently standing. That's how I can read the letter from Zdravko Subotic, the head of the vault, who referred to me personally, as the chairman of the G17 Plus Municipal Committee. Let us see what he deals with, whether politics or any profession; surely not with the profession, for he is no expert. "Mr. President, I address you as the chairman of the municipal board of G17 plus Stara Paz, and on the basis of the resignation of the MP of your political party for the assembly speaker at the last session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where he is insulting in the harshest way the Minister of Agriculture, Ms. Ivan Dulic-Markovic, injured all citizens who are other national members. In the municipality of Stara Pazova, where you are president, there are different national communities, and I believe that your obligation as president of all citizens of the Municipality of Stara Paz is to publicly apologize to all those who have been injured by this statement. I don't know how long it'll take us to further divide the traitors and the patriots, the Chetniks and the Ustashas. I believe you will agree that this leads to further dissipation of hatred, to create intolerance and possible instability in our community, which is certainly not our goal. "Instead of doing his job, he does not do it, because he does not know, he deals with politics, along with his two G17 Pluss, Jaroslav Hrebik and Stankovic Srdjan, and these are the only two committee members, out of 48 committees numbering SO Stara Paz. They rally, collect signatures against the party, against Krasic, against me, and all for the sole purpose – in order to get the budgets of the Municipality of Stara Paz, which is interesting for G17, because they are only interested in money and leverage of financial power. If it is noted that the budget of the Municipality of Stara Paz is extremely high, 1,384,460,000 dinars, then it is clear that lately there are certain activities in the municipality, illegal ones, led by representatives of G17, but we Serbian radicals really promise that in this fight against crime in the municipality of Stara Paz we will endure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27776	The word has the People's MP Zoran Subotic, G17 Plus, followed by Radisa Ilic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27777	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that seriously and with due care all of our fellow Members, who come from any environment, is Shid, Stara Paz, Bor. So local Serbia is in serious trouble and local Serbia may have suffered the most in all of those preambles in the 1990s. This mentions the term "devastion." Indeed, local self-governments are most convincingly devastated by all the administrations that exist in this country. You really need to pay serious attention to people who come from the bar because they really are facing very real and concrete problems that they have to solve daily, whether they know it or not, whether they are competent or not, people expect them to solve these problems. I would vote for this law with both hands, regardless of which minister suggested it here, even if the minister from the SRS did, because this law really in one system way begins something called local Serbia's deblockation. What the colleagues of the SRS have expressed as a major regret in the way this law is being prepared, I would nevertheless voice the opposite opinion and I would say that it is its greatest virtue, that it was done in co-operation with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia. If it doesn't mean the authority of 167 of the president of the municipalities, including members of the SRS, then I don't know what authority it takes for one law to accept it here and say, there are shortcomings, there are weaknesses, because no law, no act in this assembly is brought out of anything, but out of something, so if something was wrong, if it's fixed, we can't say, it's perfect. He's not perfect, and that's why he's one of the most important things that's going to happen in the next period. Therefore, it will have to be taken seriously to consider how this law is implemented in practice. The other thing that's out here today that I completely agree with, and it doesn't matter which parties people come from, it's the law on the return of property. Indeed, the former regime took away all property by local self-government and those are the dead capitals of this Serbia. Local Serbia needs to get something called dignity and importance, because there is no European Serbia without the European Shida, without the European Old Paz, without my European Vienna. Therefore, European formatting of local communities can enable us in the very collection to boast that we live in European Serbia. There are two essential preconditions for this to happen, which is also mentioned here, and that is that we have to change the law on the selection of local committees and presidents of municipalities. So what we have now has nothing to do with the reality and the mood of the people at the bar. The proportional system is something that has brought great confusion into local communities. So all major policy vices are reduced to one small community and it has to change. The other thing that needs to be changed is the Law on Local Self-Government. Practice has shown that this law unblocks the unsuspecting forces that still exist in local communities and local self-government. What's important to me in this law is that it's done on the principles of balance, because I come from a relatively rich municipality like Vienna and I don't mind that some of the funds that will leave Vienna are being overrun, or as they say otherwise, into some poorer municipalities. So the principle of solidarity in this country must exist. The other thing is the principle of objectivity, and we are all in agreement, but somehow just in front of the cameras, so we agree that our local communities should not depend on whether our minister is from the same party that we are from, or whether we are close or distant with some minister from the government. This law introduces order, but when the lights go out, then we're all ready together to drag the minister by the sleeve and say, friend, Mickey, Bucky, come on over here, come on over there, help here, help out there. That's what this law is all about. The third thing, the presidents of the municipalities know, is very important to them, therefore, that the principle of certainty is respected, because people need to know what they're doing this year, what they're planning for five years, what strategy they can plan for their local communities for the next 10 or 15 years. In any case, there is much more reason to support this law and vote for it than not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27778	Mr. Avramov, come in. You asked for a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27779	Just to tell my colleagues, maybe we got along, maybe we didn't. I didn't mean to raise any tension at all, but what you're saying makes sense, and in some sense I only agree partially, but you should essentially ask the people whether he wants to go to the European community or not. Do many Western countries that have far greater standards than anyone want to be in the European community. Sweden wants to come out, and Norway has not even entered the European community, and the highest standard is per capita. I think that's supposed to mean something. One more thing, when you pulled me out, I'm asking this as a parliamentary question, to answer me how and in what way to pay these nine workers for whom the administrative inspector has ordered me to return, from which funds, since we don't have the funds. Have the Republic or the Ministry of Resort approve me, I absolutely don't mind. We don't have the money. I said we're a devastated community, there's nothing to finance from. We were ordered to return them, so, in this case, we have now failed to comply with the government's conclusion, which ordered 10% of the workers to be reduced. What I cut, I didn't cut anything, I cut the money to the budget, I paid off those workers, I gave them everything legally that belonged to them, and I had to pay them back. From what means do I pay for it now? I'm asking this as a parliamentary question, and I want to get an answer, so I know what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27780	Thank you, Mr. Avramov. Here you go, Mr. Subotic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27781	I have no right to a replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, misreading. So, I'm a young MP here, and you have serious experience, and I respect that, and I wanted to tell you something. So, I was talking about something that is the prevailing thinking in Serbia. Eighty per cent of people in Serbia want to be in the EU. It's utopia, and what we're talking about today, it's projects, it's work, it's bloody work and blood work. I say, European standards are measured by the metering of the pipes you set for citizens to have clean water, to have sewers, to have cleaners as they should. That's a European standard for me. Whether we're in the EU or not, I'm very interested in that. How can you at the same time be a MP and be the president of the municipality? That's really amazing. With so many problems, with so many serious jobs to do in the local community, sitting here, I couldn't stand it. I really admire you, everyone who can, but as far as I know in party G17 plus there's not a single president of the municipality sitting here. So, one small remark and don't mind me, believe me, it's impossible to sit here at the same time and be the president of the municipality, and it's to be a very successful president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27782	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic called, and then a replica, Mr Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27783	I would not answer, however, if I were to comfort an esteemed colleague – the fact that he has no MPs and presidents of municipalities at the same time here, but only sitting MPs, no president of the municipality, let him be calm, soon his MPs will not sit in this assembly. The election is coming, and that's where we'll end up. However, in his previous address book, he said something, tried to put all MPs on the back of this assembly, so that as soon as the lights go out, as soon as the cameras go out, all the ministers are dragged out – the ministers, the brother, the grandmother and everything else, go here, go there. A guide to ask, who dragged Minister Velju Ilic and another five-six ministers to Bor, so Minister Velja Ilic dragged on tows and bogers, and bulldozers and rollers across those villages up there, almost turned into a river of two speedboats, to bring down the buffers. However, it was the only way we would have stayed in that village, because as soon as the first round of Vela passed, he would have picked up everything and carried it away. He's come to bury what's a little bit of the road. There was no choice for local self-government that the bulument did not go to those villages to promise hills and cities, to promise consumption, the airport in Cukujevac, to promise huge spending of money only to vote for our candidate, because it stands behind it by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's what Velimir Ilic said, that's what all ministers say when they get there, but, gentlemen, the people don't think so. The people didn't mean in Bor, the people won't think tomorrow in Bujanovac, God will give in New Vienna, don't think of the people as you think. This isn't alaibbe's straw. What you're hearing is a little bit of that huk, that's that big radical wave that will clean up, wash Serbia out of corruption and crime, but in the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27784	Mr. Avramov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27785	Just to answer my fellow citizens, I am the president of the municipality, not by my own will. The citizens trusted me and gave me the trust to do something in that community. Thanks to the fact that I'm an MP, I can open some doors, I can complain somewhere, if nothing else, I can tell the truth from this pay phone that the citizens of the Shid municipality know what it is and what it is. If I were just the president of the municipality, believe me, I couldn't talk to anyone, when I had to write three times and not get any answers; I begged her to give me a negative answer and that's the answer, but until I asked the parliamentary question I didn't get an answer. Whose minister is this? You know, from G17 plus. That's how it works, unfortunately, with you. And Minister Vojislav Kostunica. That's what you do, unfortunately. We don't have cases like that. Come to the municipality to see if the president of the municipality chooses political belongings or all citizens in order. Let me tell you that every week we're in one of the settlements, we sit face-to-face with the citizens and talk to them and tell them what we can do, what we can't. We're doing everything our priority. Another great possibility, that is, to ease the budget of the Shidh municipality, is that we receive salaries here, not there, because I only have a budget of 300 million dinars, and I have 19 inhabited places, so you see what you would do. I have 19 elementary schools, three high schools. Everything needs to be taken care of. Let me tell you, when the winter period comes a million and a half dinars each week, it's for school heating. Children must have adequate conditions to learn, not for something else, dear fellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27786	Mr. Subotic. I think this helps to clarify the opinion in parliament and that here is the place where opinions face.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27787	We have an awful big problem to defend against something that doesn't exist. So you wrote five times Ivana Dulic-Markovic, we wrote 10-12 times. There is only one rule in party forums, and this can be confirmed by every member of G17 plus, that Ivana Dulic-Markovic claims – I am the minister of all citizens. The same is said by Tomica Milosavljevic and Mladjan Dinkic. So these are all your science fantasies to work on party lines. What's the problem? Convince me it's not the mentality problem of this country. It's a desert Turkish for us to get closer to the fire that warms up. These are people's sayings and wisdom. There's no need to confirm here that it is or is not. We're just such a people, such a world, and that's our problem. As for this great huk and all that great about the SRS, because everything is impressive and great, there is one rule in nature: and the dinosaurs were great, so they were extinct.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27788	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Markovic and Mr Urošević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27789	It seems that each of the dinosaurs has inherited something: we are a large body, and you are a brain.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27790	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27791	In his previous presentation, Mr. Avramov said he had a chance to go out for this pay phone and tell the truth. I totally believe he has a desire to tell the truth, but in his previous address for the pay phone, he said something I couldn't call, maybe it's a replacement thesis, I'm not going to use some more difficult expression... He said that in 2004, Shidd had 60 million transfer funds. In 2004, there were no transfer funds in terms of 2005 and 2006, so for 2006, the transfer funds of 58 million were incomparable to what you called the transfer funds for 2004 of 60 million. In 2006, you must still have one significant part of the tax paid, so these are two incomparable sizes and I warn you of that moment. You are not the only president of the municipality that uses this as an argument to point out that the municipalities in which the presidents from G17 plus have more resources than other municipalities. After all, we all had a chance to see the bill. This bill achieves complete transparency in the allocation of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27792	Here you are, Mr. Avramov, mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27793	You, dear colleague, have forgotten only one fact in your presentation, which I have said many times, that we are the only devastated municipality in Vojvodina, which means that we are washed away, destroyed, the economy doesn't work, that's the basic problem. So what's left of me in the community other than this transfer I'm getting? That's the biggest problem. Most likely someone saw it during DOS, so he returned 60 million dinars to the Shidian municipality for that very reason, but when the radicals came, it dropped drastically in 2005, exactly 48 million in 2006. Is 2007 going to reach that 60 million? We all know inflation was 30%. There's nothing left for me but to pray abroad, as I've already said, that we're looking for donations. And it would be best if elections were called again at all levels, so let's see who wins, who wins, who the citizens give their trust to and who rightly leads this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27794	Thank you. Mr. Urosevic. Mr. Perry, did you ask for a word? You're not. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27795	I don't think I'm well understood, but if you look at the material that we've received under this law you can see clearly that the municipality of Shid has 223,815,000 acquittals. You're trying to compare the transfer funds in 2005 and 2006 to 2004 when they didn't exist. So, in the 2004 annual law, there is no concept of transfer funds, as is the case in the 2005 and 2006 law, and these are two non-comparable sizes. That's very true. See how the transfer of funds from the Republic to local level was carried out in 2004, in 2005 and in 2006; the concept of transfer funds, as it were, does not exist in 2004. These are transfers from one level of government to another, but if they were 60 million then in 2006, they're 300 million, because you have an income of 223,815,000 plus a transfer amount of 58 million, so you see how much that is compared to 60 million in 2004.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27796	Thank you. I think we're clear now. Radisa Ilic has a word after him Branislav Nedimovic, so Stevica Dedjanski if he stays like this list of speakers. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about this bill, I would take the liberty of presenting this intention to Mladjan Dinkic in a single sentence. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic acts as some "dangerous uncle" who takes five apples to the child, and after a while gives him two back and thinks he's done a good job and thinks he's a good man. It's actually the whole idea, which primarily looks like some covert pre-election campaign, as well as this ridiculous action of collected signatures, even though it won't be able to keep an absolute and quite secure victory of the SRS and at the same time a coded interest organization. Today, the National Assembly is discussing a proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government, a law that, according to Minister Dinkic, would be tasked with allowing for a fairer distribution and transfer of funds to municipalities in Serbia. The real question would be, who is the main culprit for having such a disproportionate relationship over the past few years in granting funds to local self-government? The creator of such a project was DOS, or then the ruling coalition, which then ignored the objections of SRS MPs and did what it did. Today, this is precisely why the ruling coalition is likely to vote in favour of this bill. This is not only the case with this law, but also with all the others that were passed in this term, because the government does not usually accept amendments to the SRS, it turns out later that the law cannot be implemented, and after that they come to amend and supplement the same law, and it is just a waste of time. There are already developed and undeveloped areas in Serbia. Unfortunately, the entire municipalities that are dragging along the epithet of the southern, border, mountainous, etc., which are mostly left without the few companies that have been financed in some way. These companies are now bankrupt or sold for a living, and then closed. Not only do they need funds that the finance minister has denied by introducing VAT, but they also need additional funds to train the municipal infrastructure first, retain the population and give them an incentive to survive. There was a lot of talk about agriculture yesterday, and the minister cannot say why something concrete is not done in these municipalities, through incentives for the expansion of the family business, through fruit growing, vegetable farming, livestock farming, for which the conditions provide precisely this intact environment. But this government has no hearing about it, although it should have, just when it comes to the national interest of Serbia, because in a way it creates a huge empty space, endangers the country's security and opens wide doors to disrupt the previous national structure of the population. Such municipalities are usually remembered only when extraordinary local elections are held and precisely their inefficientness and their unhappiness caused by poverty and misery among the peoples the government uses as its weapons. Suddenly there are more ministers in these local ruined environments than normal, expensive cars possessing the centers of these townships, bulldozers, trucks, rollers, 92 asphalt trucks, and the minister comes to some village promising the airport, where the minister of sheep is currently going to build airports. However, when elections pass immediately on Monday, no one is left, everyone is moving to a new location, where new emergency local elections are scheduled. As far as the law itself is concerned, the SRS has fundamental objections to a large number of members in this proposal, which come down to one. Instead of returning to local self-government what belongs to it, and taken to a secure system of charge, municipalities are pushed into an even greater conflict with citizens by collecting taxis and fees so that they can function. This is already seen in Article 6 where out of the 16 possible sources of income, at least half of the income is based on the owner’s application, i.e. on his goodwill or on the involvement of the municipal service for recording. While the state has an elegant way of picking up a kamak, so far the municipalities have to literally hunt down their own interest groups for payment. If we mention, for example, that even certain ministries do not keep records or even are unable to make a legal provision to pay compensation, such as a concessionaire for the use of mineral raw materials, implement it, and provide significant resources to both the state and the municipality, then how the municipalities will do so. The Minister of Mining, Mr Naumov, admitted this recently when he admitted for a fee paid for the use of mineral raw materials in the light of the new Mining Law proposal that the ministry was unable to charge that fee for two years, which would significantly fill the budget of both states and local self-government. Also, Article 15. The government has left the local self-government with a longer list of local utility fees that can be charged, but the worst part of it is that some of these taxis are already collecting taxes for the state tax, so certain legal and physical persons are currently double-loaded. The municipalities were also left to charge for example. fees for domestic and exotic animals. I don't know why the Ministry of Finance didn't take over, and it gave municipalities what would come regularly as income. In the same Article 15.2. The government is putting into some kind of limiter for the amount of taxis, presupposing a maximum amount of taxis, as if local self-government itself, or the municipality does not know how to determine the amount of compensation. It turns out the Serbian government knows better the specificities of the local environment than itself. Here, and this article in paragraph 2 mentions the phantom commission for funding local self-government, which should not exist at all, because for the jobs that have been added to it is the only relevant Ministry of Finance. This is how some side shortcuts are made, and all for the amortization of pressure on the Ministry of Finance, or Minister Dinkic, and on the Serbian government. In Article 32(2), the Proposer in a way limits the use of certain incomes and turns them into strictly dedicated. This is unacceptable, because this income for certain municipalities can also be the most important part for budgeting, and hence for the functioning of the municipality. In this way, the government legally conditioned local self-government to literally spend funds on municipal maintenance of buildings and equipment. Article 34 of Article 2 opens the way for possible abuse, where it is said – an autonomous province can assign a unit of local self-government to assign a dedicated transfer. In translation, it looks like this: one who exercises power in the autonomous province will allocate funds to the municipality where they exercise the authority of the political party, as well as the Parliament of the AP and the Executive Council. To what extent it is correct and how much of this allocation of dedicated transfers will be carried out in accordance with real needs, rather than with party interests, it remains to be seen. In the end, I'm going to say something about the local self-government financing commission. The commission presents itself to MPs, according to the draft of this law in Article 50, as a bearer of justice, efficiency and openness, as some fairy tale hero. What is the role of the Permanent Conference of Cities so important, and did they write this law or Mr Dinkic? Why, then, the Department of State Administration, what part of it has the authority in the domain of local self-government? A permanent conference of cities and municipalities is not a state institution to be given this role. You give them as many as five members in that commission, and by what criteria are they going to choose? Probably by the principle of party belongings. We would love to see if any radicals will be elected to those five members, although we are generally against this commission. The Commission has great authority and since it comprises five representatives from the Government and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, it can be assumed which municipalities will be allocated certain funds. The SRS is against the formation of this commission, because it believes it is a job, first of all, of the finance ministry, only the bodies, such as this commission, which are additionally and needlessly burdening the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27798	The word has a folk MP Branislav Nedimovic, followed by Stevica Dedjanski. Mr. Nedimovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27799	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must express my opinion on today's draft law on the financing of local self-government. Here very often around the congregation benches we see the presence of a large number of media. I don't see any today. Maybe they're in front of the O.R., I don't know. But the law on the financing of local self-government is one of the most significant laws regarding the functioning of the administration on the ground, what is closest to the citizens. The local self-government unit is in direct contact with the citizens themselves, and that is why I would call on the media to be interested in this topic, not just to be interested in those topics that suit them. As far as the proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government is concerned, it is very important that this bill is in the form of a special law, because one extremely important substance is regulated in a detailed way. So far it has been regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government in several members, there have been certain legal gaps and they have created space for different interpretations. By adopting a new law on the financing of local self-government, we are certain that we will no longer have this kind of problem, which will lead to the principle of transparency in the first place. As for the funds available to local self-government units, I'd like to say that today they have a realistically twice the amount of funds compared to 2000. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that local self-government units have more resources to do what citizens require of them, citizens in any part of Serbia. What citizens are looking for, these are good roads, good sewerage, good plumbing, and, most importantly, what represents an upgrade for this whole process, it's the creation of new jobs. Local self-government units, though not directly related to the employment process, are the most directly linked to employment by having the right land to offer investors, whether domestic or foreign, to open production facilities on their territory. Also, those through their specific decisions in the municipalities, and I mean decisions concerning the leases of building land, land planning fees, land use fees, local municipal taxes, which are contained in this bill, can directly affect whether the investor will come into one unit of local self-government or another unit of local self-government. What's most important, we need to have a responsible local self-government. That's what should be first. Because when we satisfy all the basic assumptions, which is that we have a certain municipal infrastructure, we have to deal with what Serbia needs most, which is the creation of new jobs. That's what local self-government needs to deal with and that's what this Law on Local Self-Government gives, and that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, has promised. She promised to perform fiscal decentralisation. In this part, we keep our promises. We promised fiscal decentralisation and she will be. This law allows it. Remember that over the past year, about 1.2 billion euros of foreign investment entered Serbia. The law on the financing of local self-government, including Novi Sad, has other municipalities, Sremska Mitrovica, and this is a municipality that has been entered by a large amount of foreign investment, the Municipality of Cačak, the municipality of Indjia, has many municipalities where foreign investments have entered. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: E, there is no Indjia.) All right, we'll leave you to interpret freely. So there are certain foreign investors; now, whether they are real or not, it's a matter of our free interpretation. The other thing I wanted to say, most importantly, is that foreign investment is entering the country, and foreign investment is related to the introduction of new jobs, so a number of our citizens will find a job, and that's what's most important. This is what the primary business and the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the authorities of territorial autonomy and all local self-government, no matter where the president of the municipality comes from. I think that's what we all agree on together and there's no reason to think about it. Most importantly, this law on the financing of local self-government helps make no big difference between local self-governments. The fiscally strongest local self-governments had almost 16 times the amount of resources available from those who had it to a much smaller extent. After the transfer, which we had in the previous period, that difference was reduced. However, the law on the financing of local self-government gives clear criteria on which certain local self-governments can plan what resources they will have. There are projects in every local self-government that last several years. If you don't know how much funds you'll have in 2007, 2008 or 2009, if you can't predict, you can't plan any big projects. Then we can only talk about one budget year. So it's very hard to plan big projects, and these big projects are almost in every local self-government. The most important project, I will repeat once again, which needs to be dealt with by local self-government is the creation of industrial zones that will be communally arranged, which will offer potential investors to create new jobs. It is one of the most important jobs on the local self-government, and surely the law on the financing of local self-government helps in the work. The next thing I'd like to say is about the principle of unification. I was just saying something about it, this law will certainly bring about a horizontal alignment of certain local self-government. Those who have the most, of course, when we talk about this principle of solidarity, must take something from them. Units of local self-government that have smaller resources, such as Bolets, Black Grass and other municipalities that do not have enough resources, which have only one to two percent of budgets available, and have a budget of about 100 million, then you can imagine what amount of funds they have available when they have to operate some municipal infrastructure facilities, and where everything else has to make one space competitive enough compared to another space. This is exactly what this law does, taken from large ones and given to small ones, is given to those municipalities that are underdeveloped, to try to raise their capacities and make them competitive, so that investments can come to those ends. Here individuals are always getting to me, about this law on funding local self-government. I'd ask them to come out for a pay phone and say, about a concrete bill, if something I said isn't standing. If it doesn't stand, we can have a live debate about whether or not something's wrong. Of course, parliamentaryism serves that. As for another institute in the proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government, the commission that will be formed is envisioned to play some mediator between local self-government and a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. Different views are related to this commission. Let's give her a chance, see if she'll fulfil her basic tasks given to this bill on funding local self-government. I hope so, but we'll see. It's something we can discuss. Most importantly, this is to clearly define the revenues of local self-government, clearly defining what local self-government can count on. Local self-government will have autonomy, and autonomy means not only the right to withdraw a certain amount of transfer-based funds, but also a certain responsibility. Every local self-government must be responsible for the funds collected on its territory. That's why I support this intensity that's foreseen by this law, which is to form so-called. Local income administrations or local tax administrations. Local self-governments must be responsible for the original revenues they receive. Over the past ten years, it has often been a practice that the expenditure side of the budget has been a priority, dealing with local self-government units and largely unable to influence the revenue side. With this, we achieve another thing, we achieve that unit of local self-government becomes responsible. Whether she does it or not, we'll see it in the field, we'll see what practice it is, but then we'll be able to say, Mr. Mayor, you weren't able to increase your income, you weren't able to secure your local self-government in a normal way and answer for it. So he won't be able to act like any mayor just so he can spend his money. It's the easiest money to spend. It's a lot harder to make money. It is this law on the financing of local self-government that we have some instruments that help local self-government in an indirect way to increase their incomes. I'd like to explain that to the Sremska Mitrovica case, if you'll excuse me. For example, the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, in the domain of its jurisdiction, which is provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government, with regard to the decision on criteria and criteria for land planning, which is one of the original revenues of local self-government, reduced the amount of compensation for the construction land and thus made Sremska Mitrovica more competitive than other municipalities in Srem, because the analysis was made regarding the price of the construction land. She made herself competitive. What's the score? The result is several direct foreign investments. We have this German company Mrs. Radeta mentioned the other day, which came to Sremska Mitrovica. It is not because Mr Jesic has done something, but it is the ability of local self-government in Sremska Mitrovica to come to Sremska Mitrovica, although some would like to justify it to be the second reason. The second thing is: 350 jobs will be open on June 23rd. Projection in the next year and a half, as the company develops, 1080. Is that small? It will be one of the largest investments in Serbia, by the number of employees, in the previous period. We have another company that came to Sremska Mitrovica and will employ 200 people. So, in a short period of time, we will allow these instruments at the disposal of local self-government, which are related to its competences in this fiscal policy, to come from foreign investments. It's one rapper based on which all local self-governments should behave, any president of the municipality that's headed. I know there are local self-governments who are already doing it, and I would congratulate them on that move. It's the most important thing in front of every local self-government. In the end, I wouldn't be too long, one more thing. In addition to this law on the financing of local self-government, we need another thing that concerns local self-government directly, which is that local self-government can have land, or that they can own their own property. When these two things are tightly connected, they make a profit. Of course, at this point, only changes to the Constitution will be possible, but most importantly, local self-government has a role to play in the development of a country, local self-government should be an engine of development, because no investor comes, I say, into some space that is not local self-government, has to come into some municipality, has to have responsible people in that municipality. This law creates an environment that local self-government can decide on itself and become responsible. For this reason I would invite all MPs, precisely because of the importance of local self-government, because the presidents of municipalities are from all political parties, this will benefit all presidents, to vote in favour of the Bill on the financing of local self-government and to modernise our local self-government, because it can only be a driver. The DSS, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, is pushing for a strong local self-government, for a modern Serbia that will lead this entire society forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27800	MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27801	Since I've been called directly, just three minutes, let's get some things straight. First, the Serbian Radical Party was granted the exclusive right to write scripts as small businesses develop in local self-government as early as 1996 when we created a mini industrial zone in Zemun, and now look at all municipalities around Serbia, look at Novi Sad, look at many other municipalities where these small factories, small and medium-sized enterprises, are being created that will employ many tomorrow. I forgot to mention one of the most successful municipalities run by Serbian radicals, which is Kikinda. We'll share that script with all your community presidents, so they'll have something to learn from. With respect to what you say, there is a mediator who will take some of it from here, and from there, it reminds me of that fable about the fox that shared the ravens with cheese, the bites of this piece, the bites of it, and the end of it are left with nothing. Dinkic should not be a mediator in the distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27802	Replica, MP Branislav Nedimovic, and then MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27803	I'm sorry, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, for wasting your time, I won't be long. I know you're the president of the municipality and you have a lot of obligations, a successful municipality, but there's one thing that's just been said. I haven't mentioned any of the municipalities in a negative context. Moreover, I said to congratulate all local self-governments who are able to recognize what is most important, which is an increase in employment, because in an indirect way this increases the income of every local self-government, so that it would not want to remain any shadow in that part, because I did not criticise any local self-government. If you have an exclusive right to that script, I would ask you to share it with everyone, if you have written it, and if you have not written it, find some experts to help you write that script.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27804	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27805	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, instead of the president of the Council of Arms dragging the ministers into the assembly hall, he drags them out of the assembly hall. There is something really wrong, and it is necessary for the minister to be in the O.R. when we talk about the law in principle, because although we are talking to the public, of course we want to share our opinions, experiences, proposals and objections with the finance minister. This law, the minister says, overcomes the weaknesses of existing local self-government funding systems. We all know he's not ideal, but this law doesn't contribute to the improvement of that system either. If we wanted to change something, then we could have joined the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and we didn't have another law that would treat local self-government in addition to the laws that already exist in the legal system. Supposedly, we're back in sync with the European Union and the Charter of Local Self-Government, and we called on that charter when we passed the Law on Local Self-Government, which he treated in one part of this matter. I assure you that the previous one from 1998 had in mind the entire Charter of Local Self-Government, so the reasons are obviously not what the Ministry tells us in the explanation. The reasons are some other nature. I'm just going to look at a few of the most important remarks from some of my experiences and draw attention to the minister that he should not call for a public debate that he allegedly had through the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities, which of course is not an NGO but a voluntary association of municipalities and cities, which is an important difference, because everything that the representatives of municipalities and cities have given as observations has already been rejected in that debate. I have it in writing, and I can bring it in, and I'll bring it in when there's a discussion of the details. So, forms work to have a public debate, it's really illusory and funny. Why did you not enter into a public debate about the law on ID cards, so that you may hear what the people think, and many others? So, the government determines when it suits her to go into some public debate, which is why, although I am absolutely against it, I think the competent people in this Parliament who can debate, the people have delegated them, all the laws and only pro-forms of some public debates cost this state. My remark applies primarily to Article 61, because when a man comes to one municipality he meets, in his opinion, with the state, it's his first contact with the state, and even that official behind the counter is his image of the state apparatus. He excavates his dissatisfaction, anger, and, of course, he has some positive experiences. You now want to transfer all the hard and dirty work to local self-government. There are a lot of objections to the Ministry of Finance, to the Administration of Revenue. For example, you have the municipality of Zemun, we had a wonderful building of the Payment Service, the National Savings Office took over, and then Minister Dinkic took over; in one part, the Office of Revenue, and the other part, which is exclusive, is issued for large money to some banks, and on the high ground floor of the municipality of Zemun are officials of the Office of Revenue. You can't explain to a citizen, when he enters the municipality, that this is the Ministry of Finance and that it's under the hat of the Republic, and that the second and third floors are in the competence of local self-government. the municipalities of Zemun. As many times as I hear it on the stairs, he says - I paid or didn't pay, they took a lot from me, the municipality ripped me off. I say - people, it has nothing to do with us, you complain to the finance minister and the Serbian government, the state of Serbia, it's not the municipality's business. Now he still wants to get us employees. I hear from people who go in there that they haven't even networked the information system yet, that they're full of pistachios, that they're pouring whiskey, that no one's doing anything, that in the hallway closets that aren't yet taken care of, the archives are standing on the stairs. Now we have 40 or 50 more workers to take over, and this is where we are asked to reduce the number of employees and take another negative blow from the citizens. Simply unacceptable, no one can force us to do that. The alternative is an agreement with the Income Administration, that we have mutual claims and obligations, as if it's not normal for a state authority to do its job in his job description. I don't want to close any contracts. I know what the Agency needs to do. Someone here hasn't seen the things they really are in life. Secondly, no one here has treated the city council problem, and that's two million people. The city of Belgrade will suffer certain consequences, good or bad, but what kind of repercussions it will have in the city's municipalities, it only depends on the will of the City Assembly, or Mayor Bogdanovic. It will continue to determine the budget for municipalities as they estimate it should be based on what kind of school, how many citizens, not entering the area of rural areas, how many objects, how many sewers, water lines, what should be built. He won't get into it, nor does this law oblige him. So we went the wrong way, instead of really going from one good law on local self-government, the law on capital city, which Minister Loncar has promised us for the third year. I don't know what's so problematic that we can't resolve the status of the capital. The city of Belgrade is on the territorial principle of the district, and we have no resolved the issue of district funding jurisdiction and this should be resolved in the state system. We don't even have a constitution, but we're on our way from the tail to take care of the state, instead of taking care of it from above. We have a really big problem. Belgrade doesn't work. It may work if you watch Studio B, there you'll see all the officials in Belgrade taking pictures and showing what they've done. But what happens in city halls? Not much can happen, because the system has not provided us with a dinar of income that we can spend on infrastructure or solving the problem of that nature in municipalities. And yet here in one member, the minister tells us what we're going to spend money on, if it's even about city halls and if city municipalities are even local self-government, and that's the question, it doesn't seem to be. If they didn't, why did we even have an election in those municipalities? Look, this Constitutional Court would have to work day and night on that matter alone. How do we order us to spend the rent money that we have to charge 100%, we have a 98% charge, and that's our basic income, because with 80% we charge the budget from those funds. Someone's gonna get in trouble, someone's gonna break the law. Maybe it should be said that this doesn't apply to us at all. So the Serbian government should have seen a slightly more comprehensive problem of local self-government. You are funding very important, this segment is important to all of us, but the law on the capital needs us. Otherwise, the city of Belgrade will function on the principle of "the circle of two", and what will happen further in other city municipalities, it will not interest anyone at all. To tell you the truth, this is the only place, this pay phone, from which we SRS deputies can pass on some of the experiences of our presidents of municipalities that are not in parliament, because it comes to the media, and even those media that finance local self-government or the city of Belgrade, such as Studio B, is an illusion. Nothing that's good can't be recorded or doesn't want to be recorded. We are one of those modest assets that we have on some residential utility account, which we are filling exclusively from the lease of agricultural land and from the purchase of apartments, which on an annual level can be four or five million dinars, we have done this year's reconstruction (although it's not in our job description, but we have seen that we have to, because no one cares, and it is necessary) of the transfusiology department at the Zemun hospital. And no one came to record it, no single journalist, because no one was interested, as if we wanted to take a picture there, not take an empty picture and let the citizens know that it was done. We took one big loan that we hope to succeed and serve, and we hope that in a year or two days a lot of things will change for the better, so that we can do five kilometers of water in the Ugrinovs, and I don't think the Belgrade Waterway will build more than 20 kilometers this year. You know, as we tend to do something, that's what God knows; and only if we want to turn two offices in the municipality do we have to write a request to Mr. Bogdanovic to grant us additional funds. In this state there are 17 Belgrade municipalities. I'm only saying this because I don't like it and I don't think it's good to solve problems like that, but they have to be comprehensive and they have to go from head to tail. So we had to law on local self-government to do it right, you know how many objections we had on him and now his weaknesses are showing up. We had to pass a law on the capital, and then parallelly maybe follow this law, because then it's definitely going to perfect the way of funding, so let's see if we need two degrees in local self-government, three degrees, how we're going to do it. Because we cannot forget 17 Belgrade municipalities and leave them to the city of Belgrade, regardless of who is in office as president, or mayor and who has the majority in the City Assembly. Today one, tomorrow the other, and there's going to be another third in town municipalities, that's not a problem, there shouldn't be that kind of thing when the elections are over, because then we all have to work for the benefit of the citizens, bury some war axes, and we'll open up the duels again when the elections are indicated. We'll ignore ourselves, and the citizens will listen to us for what we've been doing, and that's no problem at all. But to really function as a municipality, and I doubt that we are even a unit of local self-government and that any law of that kind obliges us, given that the Law on Local Self-Government does not recognize us as a unit of local self-government. There's a concept of that kind in the Constitutional Court, there was a public debate, and I think the judges of the Constitutional Court were grasping to resolve the issue. We expect to see what they say about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27806	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry of Finance, three or four things at first I want to say. Why is the law important? We had one experience when he was so-called. Association of Free and Independent Cities in Serbia (President of the Assembly and Association was Velimir Ilic, and the chairman of the Management Board, Zoran Zivkovic, for as long as it knew who the main people were) was through the Norwegian government, in the form of a boosting democracy in Serbia, received 100,000 tonnes of maputts and cashews in the 1998 and 1999 heating seasons. The imports went through Republika Srpska, was only burdened with customs and sales taxes, which at the time worked. The Norwegian government did not charge the substance. The 100,000 tonnes of lard and maputa are divided by gratis, with these costs I speak of, customs and sales taxes, members of the Association of Independent and Free Cities in Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia have been charged these 100,000 tonnes in the form of calories as if the procurement had been made with substance. So, I am still Energy Minister Goran Novakovic, and then Cori Udovici, asked and asked parliamentary questions and never got answers, and today I will renew my parliamentary question. Who's responsible and where did the funds go? Calculate today how many 100,000 tons of lube and lye oil, so-called. Light oil at the world market and how much it costs when it passes through the boilers of cities in Serbia, and we know exactly where they were, in Belgrade, Nis, Cačka, Kragujevac and some other cities in Serbia. So, it is important, when we mention these associations, as did Mrs Pop-Lazic, the Permanent Conference of Cities, and associations should serve to make it easier for citizens, to get certain benefits through the association, which would otherwise not be possible to achieve without, to say those who deal with the military, focused barbaric fires. Unfortunately, it often happens that this is how other jobs end, as in this case, it is about illegal action and a procedure for which no one has answered, and I hope that we will discuss it. The next question, 10 times today, is the Indji municipality mentioned here; the Indjia municipality today serves the Serbian authorities as a sighting municipality. When they want to say that something is very good, then there goes television and pictures of Goran Jesic and he speaks in various shows so that it would be good for everyone to paint what is happening in the Indji Municipality and that it would be the way things work. I'd like to say a few things here, given that he's often hit by ministers and taken pictures with him. It's easy to be good with other people's money. The municipality, as a guarantee of the construction of the water line of Stara Paz - Indji, owes several million euros to the contractors today, and therefore the contractors of this water line that has been implemented and which has calmed Stara Paza as one of the municipalities of the joint project, owes the company "Patogradja" and subcontractors about 2–2.5m euros. The Indjia municipal court is delaying the execution and thus directly bringing "Rotogradju" and various producers into bankruptcy, that their account has been blocked, and with an explanation that is unsuspecting, incorrectly and unlawfully giving the municipality of Indjia and its public enterprise the right to destroy economic operators in Serbia. It's a crime. He's not for photography, for Dick and Pride, he's supposed to be in charge because the honorable people who invested their resources, who funded the whole project, can't charge for their work. They didn't make a deal with some Jug-Mansion store, they did a deal with the Indji Public Enterprise. The guarantee for this job is the Indji municipality, and they are today practically pushing into bankruptcy several companies and their subcontractors. So whenever the municipalities of Indji and Goran Jesic are mentioned, I can always say it's someone who works in an unfair and illegal way, who gets other people's money points that don't belong to him. Your Honor, since there is no minister here, I ask that the competent budgetary inspection and other institutions as to how this is possible in one country where hopefully everything should operate under the law that we have here and which is brought about by the state to be arranged for us and to function in a normal manner. There's still a chance, I've given the committees in charge of the assembly, for performances and complaints and others, certain notions about it, because it's an intolerable situation. Goran Jesic is otherwise a member of the Civil League and was an MP here in the previous assembly. I don't have anything against him personally, but I do have a problem with him ruining companies and employees of these companies, and he's presenting it to the public as some kind of big success of his own. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is very important to say here that small and undeveloped municipalities, regardless of some of them will have certain improvements when this law comes into force, are not, here to say in Serbian, in a way that would be necessary, given their territory. I'll give you a few examples. The municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin, Gornji Milanovac, Raška are municipalities that have more than 100 kilometers per diagonal from one point to the other. The number of not built or not enough built local and untegorized roads in such municipalities is measured hundreds of kilometers, up to 350 per small municipality. There is no way that, without major intervention, these routes will be built or maintained during the winter period. I was talking here... Luciani municipality, too, so that's 100 kilometers. People don't understand, they mean 30,000 people, it's... So the criteria are very important, and I would be happy if this commission (10 plus one) could actually see the needs of small municipalities. Because, you know how, it's the biggest math here how to balance what goes to local self-government with what needs to stay big, which earn more, but the state needs everyone when it's hard. So, they should go to school, take the roadways, clear roads and those in the Lucians, and in Gornji Milanovac, and in Raška, and in Sjenica, and in Zajecar and all other places. It is here around Belgrade, near Cačka and at some other locations much simpler. Then, there is no very important element in the criteria – the start of projects that are to be built in the phases of the next period. For example, five municipalities, two districts, Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Luciani and Požega and Arilje made the first phase of the Rzav system. That's $150 million in money. It takes another 70m euros to defend Svrtkova. There is no space in this law that can be invested more significantly in the next period. Are we going to build, start new projects in other places without finishing the existing ones? Here citizens have already invested enough, both themselves, both the state and public enterprises, etc. That's one problem. Another problem concerns those municipalities that suffered significant damage during NATO aggression, and their municipal infrastructure has been destroyed. There is no element here in the criteria that can valorize it in any way. So it is important that this commission and those who are dealing with this in the future take these elements into account. A colleague mentioned self - contribution and thought about this important way of helping local self - government. I just want to say that citizens should always be given the opportunity to make a voluntary statement, and budget inspection and other inspections should take care of how these funds are spent. But in no way should citizens be deprived of the right to decide for themselves whether they want to pool their funds with the funds of a local community or state, with the fact that there is always an important question: whose object is built by these means, is that in terms of action or something we can consider a state facility or an object owned by the Republic? If we were to talk about it, then we could list objects in the area of telecommunications, in the energy system, where the citizens singled out their assets, and today they're being translated into the basic assets of these public enterprises. Another important segment, and that's what I end up with. The presidents of municipalities, regardless of which parties they are from and whether the candidates are citizens' groups, are in Serbia today doing one of the most difficult jobs. I'm willing to claim it's one of the hardest jobs. They're a waiting room for the biggest number of citizens' problems. What Gordana Pop-Lazic was talking about, the citizens are the state, until they figure out which would be a higher instance, etc. But here is also important to say that there is a problem in the functioning of local self-government. As far as I'm concerned, the electoral law, which introduced an unusual combination, is creating problems in Serbia today. A billion dinars so far have been spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget for so-called. A check of the president's confidence in Serbia's municipalities. I'm not saying it's not supposed to be trust-checking, but I want to say that it's huge financial resources, that it's giving birth to some other problems that my colleagues used to talk about here. I agree with those who have said that they are travelling in an unprincipled manner to Serbia and are promising funds for municipal, infrastructure facilities from the state budget. This significantly disrupts, ma'am, the balance in these funds for local self-government, both in transfer and in others, because it was in some place to wait, why was it necessary to corrupt political relations in Serbia somewhere, to have political problems, and to have investments? Do we directly stimulate municipalities in Serbia to destroy local government, so that based on the fact that we have this caravan that goes to Serbia and promises large municipal infrastructure facilities. I was in the studio a few days ago, and the villagers there told me that none of what was promised in the February campaign had been done. So, it's not honorable and it's not correct, if those couples are going somewhere they have to be divided by the criteria that apply here when we adopt the budget, when we bring in this about the transfer of local funds, it doesn't make sense. Let the ministers go, let them travel, let them have their political activities, it's not disputed, it will do whatever power they swear they won't, and the money can't be held that way. The money is in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, they belong to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and must be spent on the criteria set by this parliament. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's an unprincipled way of running an election campaign. I advocate that the election law be changed, that the president of the municipalities should be elected by the councils and that there is no problem that we have entered and we will be very difficult to get out of, because now everyone is trying to get in a way that is not recorded in the budget. Please, three million euros were promised in the King. I've collected how much the tours around the Kings cost, how much the bridge on Ibra, how much is the water line of the Lopatnica; it all needs the King, it's not controversial, just why didn't it take yesterday, why in February when it was a campaign? It's unprincipled, incorrect and politically harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27808	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The total remaining SPS time per point is three minutes. The word is Stevica Dedjanski. The remaining time for the SRS is 35 minutes. The next speaker will be Milka Silaev, it will be after the break. Here you go, Mr. Dejansky.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27809	An authorised representative of G17 plus said during the talks, among other things, that there were two opposing sides here, so the Ministry and the Permanent Conference of Cities. It's just a blur on the eyes, we all know it's basically the same thing. Approximatelyly, some dispute has probably arisen in the fact that representatives of the yellows from the Democratic Party wanted to focus more on their municipality, from G17 they wanted to do something else, and now there's, like, some difference and conflict of opinion. So the conflict of opinion is within the same group, which thinks and does the same, and it's going to work for a few more months. Let me get this straight. This bill of law is a continuation of a series and thus we can already be skeptical and suspicious. You know, over the past two years, a law has been passed where, for example, street sellers in the markets had to register, so it was explained by the minister on television as an increase in employment and the opening of new companies. Now these same people are being chased. So that's one of the things that didn't work. Also, we've had tax changes in various excise systems where we've already proven several times that it's actually funded and favoured by an import lobby, we've proven by a million examples, that I wouldn't repeat them all now, but in principle, the citizens of Serbia know that. Yesterday we had a law on agriculture, where SRS MPs pointed to how, for example, loans from various funds were divided. It's about the Ministry of Agriculture, but it's about everything else. So, it's always divided only by those who are from G17, only by those who are from that yellow set, and we've proven it many times. Today it is mentioned, I will also have to look back, as I come from Vršac municipality where the SRS is also in power along with partners, related to a 10% reduction in staff. I just have to say what kind of situation was found in the municipality: let's say, in Vršac municipality, and I know that in other places, in 2000 there were about 200 people employed in the administration and in other enterprises that fell under the municipality, and now there are 400. So, more than 200 people have been employed by DS in four years, and now we're being asked to throw people out on the street. So, we're in principle, as Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, against throwing people out on the street no matter how specific they are, no matter what political orientations they are, but I just want to point out some illogicalness that they're trying to impose on citizens, what can wait for them, and impose themselves on municipalities. We also know why we have great doubts without real data, and we will talk about concrete data, when it comes to the law which was submitted directly by Minister Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus, because we know the criminal history of that party only in the last two years, so let me mention the "Erikson" affair, Davinic, Dragic, the suitcase, "Knjiz Milos", and in the past you remember genetically modified soy and everything else and so on. The Indji municipality was mentioned here as a positive example, so I heard criticism afterwards. I just have to ask you gentlemen, have you ever been there? Sir, our MP Milos Disic regularly asks Mr Dinkic whether he is familiar with the criminal actions of that municipality's president and whether anyone has ever been there to see what the Indji municipality looks like and what was done with all that money that was allegedly given to the Indji municipality. The question is asked – if given, who stole it, and if not given why are you talking about it? Also, there is a strong doubt regarding this bill due to past experience. In the past period, last year, related to the allocation of transfer funds, Vrsac municipality (I will take as an example the municipality from which I come) is investing in the state budget over two billion dinars on the basis of sales taxes. The transfer funds we received were 30 million dinars. Now, if you don't think there's any doubt that someone did it on purpose, I'm telling you that it was deliberately done because we compared several municipalities that have the same or similar income, they're similar to Vrscu, which they got four times as much. I don't want to mention them on purpose, because the SRS represents the position that everyone should get the same, so it doesn't matter who's in power, unlike you, we don't look at it. I won't mention them by name, but that's the situation. Also, it was mentioned, while there were some campaigns for local elections and now it's used, that no one will cooperate with the SRS, that it won't, that it won't, that we don't, that we don't know what. I can tell you that Vrsac municipality, with the SRS in power, received a larger donation last year from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, almost a million euros; we received three times as much funding as from senior authorities. So the transfer funds were 30 million, and we got 90 million grants. First of all, it just proves that it's not true that no one will cooperate with us, you see that in all municipalities the most co-operates with the SRS; and the other thing that matters, you see how little it is that you're trying to pass on to local authorities. It's an absolute rule in everything where you have no direct interest. We all know what kind of G17 has an interest, they don't call it a free company. Also, speaking of what municipalities should be getting about your commitment to some European values, for I don't know what all things, I have to remind you that Vršac is a multinational environment, over 20% of the citizens of Vršac municipality are other nations, most Romanian, Hungarian and so on. Vrsac municipality provides special funds to assist religious institutions, churches, the Romanian Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church. It also separates itself for their cultural manifestations. And let's say that everything that hasn't been done in the past 2000 to 2004, so this is now an extra cost to go. Also, we have experienced, when it comes to your European values, that in the 21st century four villages in Vrsac municipality have no water, no water, literally no water. All four villages were inhabited by 99.9% of Romania's national minority. Vrsac municipality has brought water in all four villages over the past period and we have no help from the finance minister to provide us with some transfer funds, even deafens to all our demands. We know that you are against the SRS, that you are against the normal values of society, we know that you are for crime, but why are you against national minorities, why are you against these European values? And I have to say European values, because before that one of your deputies is the DSS, I forgot his name, I said that European values are roads, pipes, water lines and all that. Why are we fighting this, and why are some municipalities more for European values, and some are not? You share, you keep trying to share the people, and you've been doing it for two and a half years. As far as some of the benefits of this law are concerned, someone here has already mentioned, but VAT, excises, profit tax, profit tax on successful companies in local self-government were left on the use of the Ministry, and municipalities were taxed on property and goldfish. It's pretty much what the municipality got. If it suits anyone, thank you very much. As for the reduction in the tax on property, which you said the municipalities would compete who would reduce, you probably all know, you have experience with local self-government, that this tax is the hardest to charge; fishes have never been charged, I don't believe that now, unless you win somewhere, and I believe you won't. There is one example of how you can deal again with some, conditionalally, thief: if somewhere, say, G17 participates in power, can be reduced or the property tax is lifted and then address Mladjan Dinkic and, since they are from the same political party, they will make up for some other funds from Serbia's budget. It's been happening over the past few years on other grounds, and now it's happening the same way. If you think anyone believes you'll get better overnight, and all that under the cloak of concern for the people... I have to show you an example, I didn't have time to show you yesterday, because I didn't have this paper, Madam Minister with my passport; here's how the people's concern went, I have to read it to you. It is the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry asked citizens in the municipality of Plandište, a municipality near Vrsac, to return the money they received for flood compensation last year. It's even happening, I'm going to talk about it in particular by the amendments, that the man who got $230,000 has to pay back 216,000, allegedly due to a mistake. It's not one man's fault, there's over 100 people. You're playing with people's fates, but we'll talk about it in particular. Mr Nikolic told you the other day that you have achieved great success as G17, you hate the people more than the JUL. I have to tell you that JUL was a little kid for you. Since he's not here, I don't know if he's been handed over the pajamas the Serbian Radical Party brought him, but it would be time for him to get it himself if he didn't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27810	This concludes the morning part of the debate. Resume at 15.00 hours. First speaker, Milka Silaev.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27811	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. We continue our afternoon work on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government. I just want to remind you of the remaining time per MP group so you can schedule your presentations. For the SRS parliamentary group for another 25 minutes, the DSS has not yet used its time, but there is only one registered MP, for G17 plus 32 minutes and three minutes for the SPS. I'm talking about those parliamentary groups that reported speakers to the list. The People's Messenger Milka Silas will first have the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and the Messenger of the people, Goran the Rakovac. At the same time, I would like to inform you, in accordance with Article 85 of the 1st and 4, we will be working today until the end of that principle debate, which will be on the agenda at 18 hours, which is the 10th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27812	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a law that is very important for every country's life. I'd compare it: what family is for the state in general, it's also local self-government for the state. What happens now in local self-government? The biggest problem is that you have huge expectations of citizens and extremely small competences of municipalities. When you look at the current Law on Local Self-Government, there are practically more places given to local communities than to urban municipalities. This is due to the centralised process that took place in the 1990s, and at that time local self-government was also urbanism, and inspections in urban municipalities, not only of construction and municipal, but also of sanitary, market and income management, which means that the municipality itself took care of the collection of income. That was until 1995. Since 1995, there has been major centralisation at all levels, starting from municipalities to public enterprises. I'm from Telecom, and I know how this centralization has affected this company's business. We started going back. According to the experience of people who have been in the administration for a long time, everything worked so much better, it worked much better. Local self-government knows best the problems of its municipalities, its territories and its best to react in solving its problems. Simply, the responsibilities that formerly belonged to the municipalities should be restored to them. I think it'd be a lot more effective then. Citizens otherwise consider their local authorities responsible for things they are essentially not responsible for, and responsible municipalities are obliged to react to the objections of their citizens. It takes away a lot of energy and a lot of misunderstandings come to that level in the municipalities. We have good examples in the world, where local self-government is concerned with easing the economic problems of its environments, so they worked on forming industrial zones or turning certain areas, so companies that went bankrupt or were liquidated, into new plants, and thus solved the economic position of their local self-government. So local self-government will focus on some system solutions that will affect creating a better climate for local economic development and thus get better results in practice. Here local self-government at this time was affected by momentum, the country was in the same position it was in; normally it is necessary to make training for people who came to political functions and, of course, training the administration itself in local self-governments. I think it's very important that the state pays attention at this point. How will the new law on funding of local self-government affect the funding system and will local authorities, especially in poor municipalities, become more motivated to engage in fundraising? Currently, about 40% of all local self-government revenues depend on the law on transfers, which the National Assembly brings most often, we are witnessing alone, in December of each year. As a result, the system is unpredictable, preventing adequate budget planning, and commercial banks lending funds to cities and municipalities are exposed to what is usually called a political risk. The danger significantly reduces the municipality’s income only thanks to decisions made by the Assembly. The proposal for a Standing Conference of Cities, which has been very well included in this problem, envisions stabilising the volume of transfers by connecting percentages to the Republic's GDP, which is possible not only to predict the amount of transfers by municipalities in the following year, but also to a number of specificities in several of the following. The existing system produces exceptional inequalities in total income per capita, between developed and less developed. So the existing system is the one that led to proportion 1:10. The new law will lead to these discrepancies being significantly less than 1:5. It is true that improving the position of undeveloped municipalities will be achieved partly at the expense of large cities, which are Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, but it is true that this law will give local self-government a tax on property, so the cities will make up for the transfer by tax on property from their environments. It also creates the possibility that local self-government uses reduced property tax rates as an incentive to attract potential investors. It's very important for local self-government. At the same time, the share of original revenues in the structure of the local self-government budget is increasing, which is also a principle strongly supported by the Council of Europe. The proposed law allows municipalities to charge their own original incomes, including the property tax. The tax on property will in some way create conditions for municipalities to put pressure on the existing government to pass a law on return of property as soon as possible, because then the property tax will also be increased. It is estimated that the billing of this income is currently extremely poor, something below 40% of what could actually be charged. By taking charge of the collection of its municipality's revenues, they will receive an important instrument to improve their own financial position. The law also provides for the establishment of a commission to finance local self-government, which should be attended by representatives of the finance ministry and other resolution ministries and the Permanent Conference. The commission will monitor the functioning of the local self-government funding system and propose measures to improve, give an opinion on regulations that have an impact on the financing of municipalities and cities and will deal with the introduction of order in the way that individual ministries allocate funding for local self-government projects. So the law is essentially encouraged, giving opportunities for local self-government to be creative, that's very important. In the follow-up to the reform of funding of local self-government, the Permanent Conference places a strong emphasis on the return of property rights of cities, it is also an important data, and the abolition of state control of public service prices, as well as the definition of the participation of cities and municipalities in reduced fees. Local self-government will focus on some system solutions that will affect creating a better climate for local economic development. The essence of the new law on funding local self-government is to strengthen their autonomy and to prescribe their own original property tax in the future. In the first year of change, 2.1 billion dinars will be redistributed to municipalities in Serbia since January 2007. This law should allow the redistribution of public finances from richers to poorer ones, according to the Council of Europe model, which has the popular title "Robin Hood". The current funding system allows municipalities to keep their income steady since 2000, with the participation of the municipalities' funds allocated in the gross social product increased from 3.8 from 2000 to 6.6% in 2004. Under the bill, what is extremely important, the non-purpose transfer is fixed against GDP, 1.7%. So it was trying to form a formula, almost a mathematical formula, so that there would be no speculation and in some way a court system towards ministers, but the law prescribes percentages, and it is known by which criteria the municipality can obtain funds. The transfer is aimed at equating income levels from taxed to 90% of the municipality's average, thus reducing the difference between the richest and poorest municipalities. As part of the total non-intentional transfer, part of the transfer that replaces the losses of local units is accelerated by the formula: the total amount of the general transfer of 65% is divided by the number of inhabitants, according to the area of the unit, according to the number of primary education departments, according to the number of primary education facilities, according to the number of secondary education departments, according to the number of secondary education facilities, according to the number of children covered by childcare, according to the number of childcare facilities. There are envisaged reductions in transfer funds under certain conditions. There are categories of functional transfer funds for new jobs, as well as dedicated transfer for a specific type of task. The dedicated transfers would be if municipalities were able to come up with good projects and, in that case, the Republic was able to finance such projects. So, the Republic, or the state, will seek to stimulate good projects and good local self-government to move on and develop. Local tax administrations will be formed from next year, with the administration providing support at the beginning. The law on the financing of municipalities in Serbia increases the efficiency of fiscal policy management, and the final result will be the establishment of a tax administration. So this bill seeks to restore independence to local self-government and to stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of the population and local self-government, and only such an approach can allow the faster economic progress of our beautiful Serbia and I would ask that we find the strength to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27813	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet, the Prophet of Rade, and then the Messenger of the people, Goran Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27814	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I fear it is quite irresponsible for us to talk about local self-government, even if it is the financing of local self-government, today when we have a classical coup in Serbia. I would like to remind Serbia's public that the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica have made a kind of coup in Serbia by extending their mandate to some state union ministers, although the state union has previously ceased to exist, even though the Council of Ministers' work has been terminated on the Administrative Committee, and then a few minutes later the decision has been changed. It is obvious that Vojislav Kostunica and his government imagine the state as little Perica. That way, ladies and gentlemen, you can't. I want to remind those who aren't lawyers, and the lawyers know that, by definition, what's a coup. It's a situation where someone who has authority, who has certain state functions, gives himself more authority than the law and constitution allow. It happens in Serbia these days. The regulations make the right state, which is inadmissible, and given that in some way the military participated in the business, then it can be characterized in one part and as a coup. All that the citizens of Serbia know, but that's why we have here today another distraction from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this dizziness and dusting in the eyes is reflected in this proposal for a law on the financing of local self-government. It is interesting that the MPs here who will vote for this law, and also the minister as a representative of the promoters, are calling for a permanent conference of municipalities and cities as a source of law, which is amazing, because the law must have a legal basis in the Constitution, and whether some association agreed, even if it was called the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities, it is completely irrelevant. It is important that the MPs in this House agree on this, that the majority vote this law. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party cannot vote for such solutions and that is what colleagues from our parliamentary group have talked about, especially those who are the presidents of the municipalities, who are doing their job very successfully, correctly, without crime. From here you could hear a lot of concrete objections to this law, which came from their practice, from what they were experiencing. Since people know how local self-government works, they could therefore say what the bad solutions are in the bill and why they are bad. Then here one of the colleagues who will vote for the law said it was good that everyone who spoke about the bill had made it clear to Parliament and the public that there were really problems in local self-governments and then said, whether they knew it or didn't know they were doing it, but, well, they know that they saw the problem. Also, the colleague said he would vote for such a law even if it was proposed by an SRS minister. It's interesting that it wasn't reacted by the chairman, because really, this way of discussing the law is inadmissible, and if we in the SRS similarly try to talk about some bill, then our discussions are who knows how they are. It is also said here that the fate of local self-government is the same, no matter who exercises power in local self-government, and then said that this colleague that we all say it publicly, and secretly, he says, we drag the ministers by the sleeve and with ministers we negotiate this or that. I have to deny these allegations, because it's simply not true. Unfortunately, it would be good if fate were the local self-government, whatever it is, no matter who exercises power, I mean fate in relation to the republican authorities of the government, but you all know that it is not, as it is not true that any president of the municipality is the Serbian radical pulling the minister by the sleeve. Of course, they communicate with the ministry, with the government, because, gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who makes it and what congregation majority it has, must function for all Serbia. I'll tell you on a few examples that it's not exactly like that. So, what we're saying is that we're pulling the ministers by the sleeve, I said, it's not true, and they said colleagues who are also presidents of the assembly, but my question is does that mean that someone who's from the SRS, and the president of the municipality, can't communicate with the ministers? I don't just know how you mean to ban it, and since we know that you have such a relationship with us, then we publicly say here, so we don't drag anyone by the sleeve, but we publicly say that almost every minister at the place is abused by our functions: Minister of Education, Minister of Health, who is appointed by the directors of schools or directors of homes of health and hospitals exclusively by party belonging; the Minister of Agriculture, who shares loans exclusively by party membership and the Minister of Labour, who shares those loans for the unemployed also exclusively according to party membership. We speak plainly and clearly of this congregation speaker. The biggest abuse of the entire government, particularly the Ministry of Capital Investments and Minister Velimir Ilic, is in campaigns for local elections, for extraordinary local elections that often take place in Serbia, as a result of the poor Law on Local Self-Government and Bad Election Law in Local Self-Government. Of course, we were saying how bad the laws were, we knew that all this would happen when the law was applied, as we know what would go wrong in applying this law on funding local self-government and abuses in the application of this law, and now I'm going to go back to abuses by the government in election campaigns. You know, Velja Ilic comes out with one or two bogeymen and promises towers and cities, bridges where there are no rivers, airports in some villages, that fraud has succeeded in the King's and the Smeder's, and that's the end. We have managed from this pay phone to convince citizens of Serbia where local elections take place that the government is cheating and lying to local citizens. They believed us, of course, before all the citizens of Bor, who voted with almost 65% for the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party. The citizens of Bujanovac, who voted in the first round for an SRS candidate who had more votes than all nine Serbian candidates, also believed. There Velimir Ilic came to the village of Trejak, brought one machine, some Friday before the election, before the first round and said – you see, this machine will stay here until Monday; if you vote for the government candidate, then we will start working, and if not, the machine will return. Of course, that machine came back from the field. However, thanks to the awareness of all local party officials three days ago, the press conference was held by representatives of all Serbian parties in the Bujanovac municipality and invited their voters to vote in the second election round for Svetislav Stojmenovic, the SRS candidate. Indeed, I would like to invite all the citizens of Bujanovac from this place to bear in mind that this choice involves genuine support and a struggle for Serbian national interests in the Bujanovac municipality. Now the government is likely to perform with its, Vela with its machines in Raznj, as elections are scheduled there, but we will talk about it and convince the citizens when we work in the election campaign. Given the time already spent by the SRS parliamentary group, I will not talk about this bill, because we have certain amendments and when we talk about details, of course we will look back at each of the members of the law. I just have to point out that what the government is proposing to us through this law, bringing the administration's income back to the municipal level, is something that just isn't possible. Not to mention all the reasons, and they've already been heard from the president of the municipalities, but given the laws that have been passed here on Dinkic's proposal, from the fact that the tax inspector can break into the house, legitize, prey on things, if you mean to bring it back to the level of the municipalities, then I really don't know what your intention is and what situation you want to create at a local level by municipalities in Serbia. Of course, a special story is the number of employees and threats by Mladjan Dinkic that a municipality that does not reduce the number of employees will not be able to increase their salary, or their salary will be reduced, while on the other hand, forcing local self-government to receive about 50 new workers from the income administration. So that's one of the remarks, we'll talk about the others in detail, but I'm just saying, ladies and gentlemen, that this law will not apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27815	The People's MP Goran Rakovac has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP, and then I ask, Mr. Perić, for you, Mr. Petronijevic, that's how it was announced, don't you agree? Okay, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27816	Thank you, Mr. President. If I'm not mistaken, today the law on the financing of local self-government is on the agenda, so let's get back to that law, not to talk about bulldozers, pluggers and the Law on Local Elections. And that law will come in order, and we'll cross the spear here, in which direction we'll possibly change that law, in which way, but really, let's go back to what we need to talk about. In the past term, I was president of a municipality that may belong to a middle municipality, with 50,000 inhabitants from 2000 to 2004. In October of the month when I entered the seat of the president of the municipality, I found a situation that looked about like this: the municipality's budget for 2000 was 43,500,000 dinars; at the expense of the municipality there were 68 dinars, and the debts that existed were 66 million. So, budget and a half for 2000. The time, thank God, has changed. A year and a half to two were to be remedied by this huge draft which was in the budget, and indeed every year when the budget was to be worked for next year, it was a real nightmare, not only because of those huge losses that were to be resolved in a year or two, but because the way the budget forecasting for each coming year was completely non-transparent. At that time, however, the minister was Mr Djelic, we usually had a meeting here in this assembly at the end of November of the month, where we were given certain quotas, certain percentages, and then had to make a budget for about 10-15 days without any possibility of that budget being developed, to predict investments, to be something more serious predicted and possibly done in the coming years in my local self-government. Times have changed. As early as 2003 in the Municipality of the Great Plan, from which I came, there was a surplus, and I don't think the surplus is bad when there is, it's not true that the funds were cut off when the surplus came true. He was carrying out 11.5 million that year and the budget rebalance, which was made there on December 30th, 31st, on the last day of the calendar year, all funds were transferred to the City Construction Fund. These were the initial funds from which capital works began to be carried out in the Municipality of the Great Plan, so from then on, the Great Plan, which was one small larger village perhaps in some period, today has a heat, has a gasification done, has a great lighting of the whole city, has an industrial zone that works at this point, two good drives... Veroljub Arsic, from the place: What have you lost? We didn't, sir, lose, we won, and your candidate was the seventh of all; the candidate from my party, who inherited me in that place, won more than convincingly. You didn't even get into the second round. At the end of the term, there are 8.5 million left for the new candidate who has arrived to score in the first months of his government to start a new investment cycle. So it wasn't such a great time five or six years ago, as it wasn't such a great time, though, even today with the Transfer Assets Act that we had in 2004 and 2005. But today we have to go back to the law on funding local self-government, a law that is more than good. I regretted by reading the proposal for this law that I did not have this law in 2000, 2001 or 2002, because in that case the balance of municipal finances, the development of the municipal budget, especially its development components, would be much easier, much more transparent, much easier to do. Since then, all of the then-presidents of the municipalities, and I have been in several organisations that have been gathering the presidents of municipalities from all over Serbia, have called for one of these laws. All asked that there be one organic law where very clearly, transparently in advance, the rules of the game and where the budget for next year will begin to be made, planned in April, May of the current year for the next year. This, unfortunately, has not been and for the first time in the Republic of Serbia will be such a possibility that there is only by passing this law that we have on the agenda today and which should be welcomed in any case. What I think is the important thing here, to point out, is how the law came about. In fact, before this assembly there were a dozen laws here, more or less over all public debates, but I don't think any public debate was as well, qualityd as the public debate on this law was. After all, it was also stated by the current presidents of municipalities, those who directly work in local self-government to draft the budget, who meet daily the problems their municipalities have, which they face with the nightmare we had in 2004 and 2005. After all, remember the Transfer Assets Act that we had before last, 2004. I think that out of 250 MPs probably 90% of them have submitted at least one amendment, some more. All amendments were about the same, 10, 20 or 50 million are being removed from Belgrade and Užica, Titell, Great Plana, Žitište or any municipality is being assigned. This story that we had in 2004, when we all submitted amendments to the then Transfer Assets Act, and none of these amendments were almost even defended, of course none of them were adopted, this behaviour of the Members of Parliament in December, in some way, was incorporated into this law. We are all talking about Serbia's regional development, that eastern Serbia is empty, that southern Serbia is falling terribly behind, that young people there don't want to stay, that anyone who finishes college or any more serious school is running from those parts, because there is no perspective. We had a huge disproportion, a "biogradation" that was getting more and more waved. Belgrade has reached two million, and we, south of Serbia and eastern Serbia, especially the border municipalities, have almost lost sight of no perspective at this time. One of the reasons was that local self-governments were treated in some past period, maltenes, as persons deprived of business skills or as minors, as legal entities under custody and for everything they needed, which means life, which is finance, had to be asked Belgrade and everything from Belgrade had to come. It always took someone, based on these or those criteria, often quite problematic, quite unknown to the general public, to wonder that these local self-governments could sometimes perform the most basic functions. This time with this law, we have overcoming all these problems. First of all, I would particularly highlight what is important in the law, and this is the horizontal alignment of funds that local self-government will receive by taking what is said here, the "Robin Hood" system of the strongest, most powerful local self-government, primarily from the city of Belgrade and the city of Novi Sad on the one hand, and the redistribution of one part of the funds to local self-governments, especially those local self-governments that, by their potential, are worth, by human resources and by other means, in one inferior position. Most of you probably know, in southern Serbia, he works examples in Bojnik, Crno Trava, Trgovina, and even salaries of local self-government workers are two, three and more months late. Since colleagues in previous exhibitions have really talked about transfers, about many of the things and newspapers that this law makes, I would refer to a few things that no one has mentioned so far, which I consider more than significant. First of all, I would like to mention Article 36, which bears the title – Revenues from the fees paid; in item 1 point 3), 4) and 5) are compensations for the use of mineral raw materials, compensation for the material extracted from the water stream and fees for the use of the forest. For the first time, the local self-governments of this fee are granted, i.e. the Republic makes concessions to the units of local self-government revenue from the fees incurred on the territory of units of local self-government, in accordance with the law. I think it's more important than that, because in the previous period in municipalities that had mineral raw materials on their territory, or water streams from where gravel and sand were extracted (such as in my municipality), or forests (such as the Inznitsa municipality and a number of other municipalities), so to municipalities that had certain natural resources, these resources, instead of bringing improvement to these local self-governments, were only damage to them. Why the damage? No compensation from these natural resources and no local self-government. On the other hand, local and untegorised roads were maintained in their jurisdiction, which were literally destroyed by the exploitation of these mineral raw materials, gravel and sands or forests from their territory. In this way, local self - administrations were additionally burdened; instead of obtaining income on the one hand, they had a clean loss. What I also find very important here, said several colleagues, but no one has considered it more seriously, are members of 60-63, or the fact that the local self-government unit is fully determining, charging and controlling public revenues from Article 6 of this law starting on 1 January 2007. It is, therefore, the original incomes of the municipality. I am very pleased that these four members exist, among other things, because I had a discussion with the former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Labus a year and a half ago on a round table about this particular issue, a discussion, which may have gone a little further and was at some point unpleasant, arguing precisely for this kind of solution that must exist in local self-government. You will allow, in the previous period, when you had a tax administration that is in 99% of cases, especially in smaller municipalities, in the same building where it is located and the seat of the municipality, we had a imbalance – that the director of the tax administration, which was set up directly by the republican authorities, which corresponds to them, communicates with them, was simply not interested in doing the right part of the job directly concerned by local self-government. In several places, and I had a personal experience, as several directors changed during my term, there were those who didn't even want to communicate. If the municipality has certain original incomes, and it has to have them, then there must be a mechanism for the collection of these original revenues, that it itself organises the way in which these original revenues will be charged and that it has the ability to do so in its budget and has the resources. No one can know better in Belgrade how much, for example, property tax and how easily a property tax can be charged in a local self-government unit, not to mention other original incomes that local self-government has. And when citizens have objections to this matter, they never come to the finance minister or anyone else, but first they come to the president of the municipality, because for them, the personification of the state is in their community. Therefore, this solution, provided for by Articles 60 to 63, by taking over a number of taxpayers, who would cross over and become workers of the municipal administration, who would directly work to collect taxes and contributions representing the original incomes of local self-government, is one real solution. It is good that a transitional period has been left for those local self-governments who may not have enough capacity to do so immediately. More likely to take advantage of these legal opportunities as of 1 December 2006, meaning to take over a number of workers; weaker, which do not have enough capacity, will conclude a contract with the IRS that it is doing this job for them in a certain period; small municipalities will join together, probably one of them will do jobs for all of them together. In any case, this is an important shift in the decentralisation of our political system, especially in financial decentralisation. I think there should be a particular emphasis here on the provisions of Articles 20 - 31, which regulate the issue of self-sufficientness, which has always been envisaged and very often been used to build many infrastructure things on local self-government territories, but has been more than problematic, especially in recent years, when, for example, pensioners have been free of self-dependence payments since 2002. The way self-delivery was charged was also problematic; given that many people worked in one municipality, had a residence in another, the right records of the collection of these funds did not exist. A large number of citizens have come into an unequal position; for example, there are many weekenders who use certain infrastructure benefits financed by local self-deliveries, which have not participated in the construction of these infrastructure facilities in any way. All in all, we face today a law that is very well balanced, which is written in a very clear language, a law that allows for full transparency and predictability of the system of fiscalisation of local self-government, a law that should be supported in any case, and for these reasons, DSS MPs will vote for this law in the voting day. This law will bring many good things to the Republic of Serbia, local self-government will be able to breathe much easier under this law, and already for the other day, when this law is passed, it will be able to make plans for next year and make developmental rather than just social budgets, because it is high time we deal with development, not only with demagogues, calling for the people's "worse worse". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27817	Thank you, Mr. Rakovac. After the replica, the word will first be Natasa Jovanovic, then Milisav Petronijevic, and then Zvonko Mihajlovic. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, first appeared. Here you go, and then we're working until the finale of the 10th point debate, that's the answer to the question. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27818	Thank you. My colleague Rakovac obviously misread my previous exposure when he said we should get back on the subject, and the topic is the law on funding local self-government. Of course, I, like other colleagues in the SRS, spoke about this very law, but I said earlier that it might be inappropriate to talk about local self-government today when, unfortunately, we don't have a state. It was normal today to discuss the Law on Government, the Law on Ministry, so that you, by your majority, would extend the ministries, to determine that we also have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Army, to choose your ministers and then to say, we have a state, we work on the Constitution, and then we can talk about local self-government. Of course, you're going the wrong way. You want to organize and legally define some aspects of local self-government, of course we don't mind, but in order for a country to function and there is a local self-government before that is necessary for a state to exist. We have Serbia today in which the government carried out a coup a few days ago, in which a regulation on extending the functioning of ministries and ministers was passed, although the SCG state union ceased to exist, although the council of ministers of the state community does not exist, and yet we have Stankovic and Draskovic, who appear in public and falsely represent themselves as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No, because there is no law, nor is there a decision that they have chosen in this House. In that sense, it was my discussion, to draw attention to both the public of Serbia and to the MPs who have the majority to warn the government, to warn Vojislav Kostunica that it must adhere to the Constitution, that what it does is punishable, since it is unconstitutional, since it represents a coup. And as for the comments that two or three years ago, all of us MPs submitted amendments when it came to the distribution of funds between municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, I have to say for the sake of the public, for the sake of the truth, that the MPs of the SRS never submitted amendments to direct funds from one municipality or one city to another municipality or another city, we just had observations that both of the states should get more.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27819	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27820	Article 104. There's no need to talk about a coup here and whether a coup was made. Of course not. We have a clear law ahead of us, and it's a law on funding local self-government. I want to remind the public and all the MPs present here, there are many definitions of the state in political theory. I like the one that Jovan Ducic said, which is that every country is a man of great size, just like every man of the state in small. Our country is in big trouble, and I guess we all know that, and that is why we need to be much more responsible in this congregation. In fact, every MP should have a state in him. When you have a state in you, then you will devote yourself to a job that's on the agenda, and on the agenda is a law on funding local self-government. I remind all MPs, and I urge that we focus on that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27821	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I testify that MPs, of course using their parliamentary rights, for the most part of all these days, and even today, are doing their jobs too well and I believe that all in different ways have in mind exactly what you said. Thank you. Mr. Arsic, do you think you were personally mentioned in the presentation? Yeah. ) Please, precisely because of what is now being said by Mrs Radeta and Mr Nikolic, I will check by stenogram; in case you are not, I will really have to give a warning, because I am afraid that we are drawing attention from what MPs in the order of the application are rightly behind it, including the MPs of your party. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27822	I asked for the right to a replica. To be clear, when the gentleman from the pay phone told me the election results in the Great Plan, you can check in the stenogram. I agree with what my fellow predecessors have brought out here, but you have to understand one thing, that much has been said and debated about, say, ski resorts, and a referendum in Montenegro has been being prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27823	Excuse me, Mr. Arsic, please, in order to allow you a replica, you're telling me that you're counting on personal calling, mentioning, the fact that I warned you about being dumped, so in that answer, to protect you, Mr. Rakovac said his understanding and the data on the results of the election, that's your basis for replication? Yeah. That would be the fastest interpretation, I'll allow it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27824	Thank you. So now I have three minutes, starting now. First of all, I wouldn't brag about some surpluses that were achieved when the government changed or the surplus in the years behind us. The first thing DOS did when it came to power was to introduce amendments and amendments to the law on goods and services, where it was first introduced to tax at a general rate of 20% not only services, but also life supplies. These are the revenues that local self-governments made during that period and hence the surplus income they're talking about. In addition, all local self-governments where DOS came to power at assembly meetings made decisions to increase municipal taxis, construction land fees, etc. So, they didn't achieve an increase in revenue based on a charge or something else, but only by increasing the taxis that were in the jurisdiction of local self-government. I wouldn't be so happy, if I were the president of the municipality, because one part of the job done by the Republic Tax Administration is done by local self-government, because it's part of the tax most difficult to charge, which is almost impossible to charge in some high percentage, given what economic and social status is now and what the situation is in the state, and that worst and dirtiest part of the job is given to local self-governments to do so. Not to mention that there will be no reduction in the number of employees in local self-government, i.e. in the Republic Tax Administration, because one part of the workers now working in the Republic Tax Administration is working on two or three jobs, so there will be a need to hire new workers both in the Republic Tax Administration and in local self-government. Please finish, Mr. Arsic. ) So that I would not praise such a bill, especially that those revenues that are most easily charged and which are reportedly subject to local self-government, are given only one part of the minister’s income, not the law. Give you as the original incomes to local self-governments, say, tax on use, holding and carrying goods, so you will see how many local self-governments will lift taxes and that they will be able to support themselves quite nicely from that income. For the time being, only the agencies opened by this government are supported by that revenue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27825	Thank you. Here you are, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, and the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic, and the People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a coincidence that we were considering this law before tomorrow's session of the Kragujevac City Assembly, one of the largest cities in Serbia. The mayor of Kragujevac is no longer even a correspondent or MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as he does not appear here at all. His name is Veroljub Stevanovic, there is no political party, some parliamentary club that he allegedly runs, and he, as an individual, is trying a little bit to blackmail the government of the Republic of Serbia, which deceives us with Kragujevcan, the entire public, and in fact, the bear scares us with a solution. That bear is, I mean, figuratively, you realize how you will, Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister. To jump to you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before the adoption and after the adoption of this law, the mayor of Kragujevac appointed himself a new city expert, a city council member, paid by poor Kragujevac taxpayers. It is a certain Dr. Zdravkovic, in charge of bringing Stevanovic for his hand through this Cedine zebra, and before that, on the road from Kragujevac via Batocina and Lapov or on the short way through Topola and Mladenovac, to bring to Belgrade, to the government, to get some money from Dinkic. That's how he worked... (President: Please, Miss Jovanovic, since it is a folk MP in this room, be kind, with respect, do not talk about walking from Kragujevac to Belgrade. None of the messengers of the people are guided by the hand. Please speak with respect about the MPs of the people. ) Mr Markovic, it is with the greatest respect for the person of that format and these abilities. When he says it's the most he can do for the city I live in, I trust him, because he can't do more than that, and that's 25% of the normal mayor. And you're saying that that's all you can do as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so when you give statements to journalists, to various media, I trust you, because you can't do more than that, but there's someone who can inherit you and can do better. So, as far as this law is concerned, this law cannot be a substitute... I purposely made this overture, and it's just like creamworth, tomorrow's session of the Kragujevac City Assembly, where the SRS is the strongest opposition to such a way of ruling and the behavior of the mayor of the town of Kragujevac. This law cannot replace that proposal that did not come across the approval of the assembly majority he supports, which only he signed, a certain Radojle Bukvic, you, Mr Markovic, and two other MPs, who allegedly should have given much larger sources of income and done, as you like to say, I mean the ruling structure and individual parties from this former Dossian conglomerate, the necessary decentralisation of local self-government. In order to do so, it is not enough to pass such a law, because this law, in essence, will not in a fair way, as its advocates have today tried to explain, to carry out a balanced transfer of funds from the level of the Republic to the units of local self-government, because in this budgetary apropriation and in harmonising the budget and with the Budgetary System Act, with charge by local municipal taxis and all revenues belonging to the Law on Local Self-Government, it is not enough if these outstanding transfers in the budget of the Republic of Serbia are in the hands of one man – the finance minister. This law is also anti-constitutional in some of its provisions, because it continues to give Belgrade's mayor the opportunity to behave arrogantly and ossionally when it comes to Belgrade's townships, and there are 17 of them. The same fate awaits the town of Kragujevac, because the new, also anti-constitutional statute, mirrored by the statutes of the city of Belgrade, is surrounded by some five Kragujevac city municipalities, which in the future, through a new way of functioning, will also be on the spoon to get: Stevanovic of Dinkic, and then the presidents of the municipalities of Stevanovic, as mayor, that is, how it works here in Belgrade. If I were right, that's how it is, and that no development project, let alone the construction of municipal infrastructure... You heard this morning from Mrs Pop-Lazic that despite all the blockades by Bogdanovic, the municipality that she managed to build a water and sewerage within five kilometers, and the entire project of the whole city of Belgrade is 20km. See how many Belgrade municipalities they'll be doing. When a kind of coup was carried out in the Municipality of Grock and replaced by a very successful president of the SRS municipality, a man came from this organization, the G17 Plus party, who a few days ago in the morning program of Study B said that he himself could do nothing – as the mayor of Belgrade said, if he said so, he will see... The journalist asks him openly – do you stay on this project and do you work on those streets as well? He doesn't know, and he doesn't answer. "As the mayor says, according to the finance minister." Now I ask you, you who exercise authority in local self-government units, in some municipalities and in a coalition with the SRS, do you really think this law will bring these necessary funds to municipalities and cities and that you won't have to lamb with ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and beg them. It's the only thing they don't do and it's not a lie, it's the biggest insult we've ever heard this morning when it comes to Serbian radicals, we've never been able to read anyone's sleeves, we haven't asked him, but do you think you'll still have to do it? The law itself tells you, Article 15(2), which is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, Articles 79, 80, 81 and 82, that the Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will determine in which way, to which level, to which extent, to which limit you will set local municipal fees, how you will spend them and what you can do with them. Isn't that discrimination? Where's the advocacy, where's those measles of decentralisation? There's no such thing in this law at all. This law only in a different way, but apparently, determines how transfer funds will be deployed. Now it will not wait for the end of the year, i.e. the adoption of the budget law next year, so the famous law on the transfer of funds from the level of the Republic to local self-government units, but through an advanced virtual projection, however you will, provided by the unit of local self-government to the government of the Republic of Serbia, or Dinkic, the ministry, will make this fairer. It's not a neck. It's a neck. You know what, if by any chance it had happened, and thank God and the people's will in Bor, it wasn't, but Mr Rankic won 65% of the vote, if you had regained power again, as we warn citizens not to trust you in any additional elections, there would have been an incredible robbery, especially in Bora, which is expected by the privatisation process and at least 150m euros to be poured into the municipal budget. We can now be sure that people will slowly return to that area and bring the community and the whole area back to life, because such a man, by the will of the citizens of Bora, came to the place of the president of the municipality. A law which, in your hiducias and composing, as one councilman arrives to you, buy you one, one, one, one, one, and one, you do that, and in the most unethical way, some of your presidents behave, or those hidduk congregation majority, can't bring any prosperity and no good. When it comes to such a big city, where I live, which has a budget of over four billion dinars, ask my fellow citizens, anytime you show up, if they got something and what their life looks like in the functioning of local self-government two years ago, when they had a bunch of these promises, and what it looks like today. In Kragujevac 22 settlements have no water. Not to mention the fact that we drink the most expensive water in such a poor city in Serbia, the most invaluable, you know, for that money, where the price of drinking water for household is somewhere equal to the price of industrial water. How are the roads, how's the approach to town? Look at what a mockery that is. You don't think that the man who didn't even show up would have honored you who defended him at that phantom conference of municipalities and cities... You could only meet and discuss butterflies, beautiful weather, what I care about, various associations exist, NGOs, association this and that, but what is constitutional and legal obligation where the presidents of the municipalities, not all of them, are from the ranks of your parties, as is this mess, and it's called Kragujevac Mayor Veroljub Stevanović, you don't meet because your lies and delusions were a priority in the campaigns. The people won't do it anymore, they won't believe that somewhere in the middle of the night they'll show up, I don't know what condition, the Minister of Capital Investments and come and on behalf of that president... Usually, individual candidates don't know a word to say, so this one takes them by the hand. I'm sorry if I'm insulting someone again, Mr. President, but that's how it is, move a little bit or watch the local election campaign. That's humiliating. I don't insult anyone, but you, by your behaviour, and especially Dinkic, Velimir Ilic and this Loncar, who even dared to go to that point to comment on the delivery of Serbian heroes to The Hague tribunal, insults the dignity of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27827	The word is made by the MP Milisav Petronijevic, and then one minute the MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. We'll be tolerated, don't worry. Then MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27828	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the draft law on the financing of local self-government was presented by Dr Zarko Obradovic, and the time left for this exhibition is short and followed by the debate on amendments, I will take my part of the story into account only one question when discussing this law in principle. My question for the minister is (he is not here, but will be passed on to him) – why did the bill promoter give up control of funds in local self-government? I'm going to quote one piece of article 46, that in the event of non-purpose spending on members 44 and 45. The government can suspend funds for that amount, and that's all this money. We have seen from the law that the funds provided for local self-government are original incomes, concessions, transfers, non-intentional and this purpose. Today we heard from the minister that the non-purpose transfer amounts to about 20 billion dinars. So a very important question is not just to provide funds. Of course, this law solves this problem and solves the main issue of dispute in the adoption of annual laws, and these are the criteria for distribution, although they will have to work out, because obviously, today we have shown on the case of three undeveloped municipalities, Black Treva, Frog and Surdulica, that there have been no shifts, but at least it solves that part. Why, unlike that law, the proponent gave up control, and see what is here in Article 60: the units are fully determined, charged and controlled by the funds referred to in Article 6, i.e. the original income. When translated into Belgrade, and I am otherwise Beogradian, this means that Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic determines, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic spends, although with the help of manager Bojan Stanojevic, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic controls. And just to tell you that half a billion euros is in the hands of one man, with no building land carrying about 80-100m euros. A control mechanism shall also be specified in the Funding System as to how this will be spent. No one knows how that money is spent in Belgrade. Those who come to Belgrade see this street in front of which is done five times, see Nemina, and Belgrade is everything from Sopot to Batajnica, from Obrenovac to Groca, from Lazarec to Padinska Skele. In Belgrade, this law should be an incentive to also establish criteria. We now have a situation where suburban municipalities account for 60% of Belgrade's territory, 17% of the population, and 4% of the funds. So, we very much respect the need to edit, embellishment of the centre, but we further highlight the need for a balanced development of Belgrade, i.e. that the municipalities that also belong to Belgrade, in that suburban part, also provide basic conditions for life, water, sewerage and roads, and not juicers, as it is now. I'll conclude, I'm looking for an answer to the question why the government, the motionary, is denying the control mechanism even in the phase of providing funds, as is the case with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27829	The word is made by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic, then by MP Miroljub Maric, and by the MP of the people, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I come from Kosovo and Metohija, from the southernmost Serb enclave, you will allow me to devote my discussion precisely to the problem of functioning local self-government in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, the precise functioning and financing of local self-government in the remaining Serb enclaves, with special reference to the municipality of Strpce. You are well aware that the OSCE has organised local elections in Kosovo and Metohija for the first time since the occupation, based on UNMIK's 2000/45 regulation. The official position of the Serbian state was that Serbs should not participate in these and such elections organised by UNMIK, as these elections aim to banish the remaining Serbian institutions that have succeeded, despite all the difficulties, in those areas. UNMIK tried to impose various solutions, but the people's boycott was evident at every turn. The arrival of DOS to the Serbian authorities in Kosovo and Metohija is being recommended, i.e. instructions, to participate in the local elections organised by UNMIK. Immediately after the elections, a hajka begins on the rest of the Serbian municipality, i.e. the Serbian administration, both by UNMIK itself and by the new UNMIK municipal government, which consists of 13 Serbian and 4 Cypriot council members. They are being kicked out of a building built by taxpayers' funds for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the Serbian administration to function as many employees were forced to rent DP "Strpce Cooperative" from Strpce and pay a monthly rent of 1,500 euros in dinar equivalent. The lease is paid from the original incomes, and the original revenues are only the income tax of 14%, of which 30% remain in the municipal budget, and 70% are paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The property tax charges something insignificant, a little tax is charged and on the transfer of second-hand motor vehicles, and that's all there is to it. Salaries of employees in the Serbian administration and public enterprises, New Public Municipal Enterprise, House of Culture, Fund for the Reconstruction and Development of the Municipality, are paid out of the Coordination Centre and are currently more than seven months late. The last payment was for November 2005. The monthly needs for this purpose are five million and three hundred thousand dinars for 102 employees. It is interesting that six UNMIK administration employees are also on the Serbian municipality's payroll and are being wasteful monthly gross of 565,944 dinars. The salary of the co-ordinator appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is also president of UNMIK's municipality, is net 81,300 dinars. On the other hand, you have an army of unemployed, who, not by their own fault, have lost their jobs and who feeds themselves and their families 5,700 dinars, which are paid in the form of temporary cash fees through the National Employment Service. On one of the rare visits to the municipality of Strpce, the president of the Kosovo Co-ordination Centre and the Metohija, Ms. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, has decidently declared that the temporary Kosovo institutions make up the Shipari and that everyone who works for these institutions works for the Cypriots. That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister if he and his ministry are funding the Cypriot institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27831	The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27832	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on the financing of local self-government and party G17 plus, whose MP I am, will vote for this law for several reasons. By adopting this law, we are taking a major step towards the model of funding local self-government in the European Union and that is our goal – to adapt our units to local self-government by European regulations. The second goal is to make a major step towards decentralisation of the government, transfer of the powers to local authorities and thus transfer certain funds from the level of the Republic to local government. I come from a small municipality of Alexandrovci and I can say that I am deeply aware of the problems small municipalities have. I'm in contact with our people every day at the bar and I'm sorry that G17 plus isn't in local self-government, because I have the impression that our quality personnel would help us function much better at the level of local self-government. However, I do not want to be a strict critic or current coalition that is in power in the Municipality of Alexandrovac, because there are many objective circumstances that do not allow them to function better. However, not to get into some details, I will say specifically, as a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I think this law on funding local self-government is one big step forward. The special quality of this law is, it was a colleague mentioned earlier, what the draft of this law was made in the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. A permanent conference of cities and municipalities is an association belonging to all local authorities in Serbia, so the Committee for Local Self-Government supported this law, supported the draft law, and formed it by the finance ministry. That's why I don't understand some colleagues who have been overly discussing this law. There is truth that we need a new constitution, that we need a precise constitutional determination of local units, there is truth that we need a new law on local self-government, so a new law on the property of local self-government, possibly local self-government elections, however, this government. The finance ministry wanted to take a useful step at this point, while we are reportedly expecting to successfully complete jobs in the adoption of a new constitution, to make one step and one effort to make local self-government units better and better-quality finance from their original incomes, from the so-called incomes. transfers planned by the Ministry of Finance to evenly distribute in Serbia and that simple municipalities that are less developed, which have a smaller inflow of funds in the local environment can count on larger funds from the republican cash register, unlike those that do better, to in some way be solidarity and fair redistribution. The G17 Group of MPs plus will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27833	The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27834	Dear MPs, Mr. President, we end today's debate on the law on the financing of local self-government, from which, after adoption and implementation, we from small underdeveloped municipalities, such as mine, the Bolec of eastern Serbia, expect a lot. The current system of funding local self-government is insufficiently predictable. About 40% of all self-government revenues regulate annual laws, there is a law on the transfer and participation of municipalities and cities in profit tax, which means that until the adoption of the budget law and the transfer law, somewhere in the second half of December, local self-governments do not have data for about half, and somewhere more, their total revenues. Then, after the adoption of the budget law and the transfer law, budgets are quickly passed at the locale, not to mention some medium- and long-term planning. Due to the different fiscal capacities in Serbia, we have a problem with unequal regional development. So, I think of those municipalities that are weaker in this regard, financially, have major problems in ensuring development and providing services in the proper scope and quality. In order to overcome these problems, we need a new law, which will improve the position of many units of local self-government through the distribution of transfer funds under the methodology of this law by reducing, while increasing the weakest units of local self-government. The total transfer level is linked to the growth of gross domestic product, which should make the system safer and predictable without increasing the cost of taxpayers in the economy and citizens themselves. The Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, whose establishment is envisioned by this law, would play a significant role in overcoming existing insufficient co-operation between central and local authorities. As the most significant newspaper in funding local self-government, I would say that, starting on 1 January 2007, property tax, except for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and the right to inheritance and gifts, becomes the original income of the local self-government unit. Local self-government units shall determine the level of the tax rate, which cannot be higher than the rate prescribed by the law governing property taxes. This law regulates the local administrative tax, thus regulating the original income of local self-government in a unique way. The government will, on a proposal from the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, determine the maximum amount of municipal fees for holding motor road and connection vehicles, except for agricultural vehicles and machinery. Self-income, as a dedicated income introduced by the citizens' decision, will be the revenue of the budget, will have the character of public revenues, overcoming the problems of its collection. A single rate of participation of local self-government units in profit tax is determined, up to 40% of the tax to be paid towards the residence of the employee. The law introduces and regulates a dedicated transfer, which can be functional or dedicated in a narrow sense. A particularly significant functional transfer allows units of local self-government to transfer funds to new jobs, with a view to decentralisation of authorities from higher to lower levels. To conclude, transparency, horizontal equality in funding units of local self-government are the main objectives of the proposed law on the financing of local self-government. Therefore, the DSS MPs will support the proposed text of the law, and I also call on other MPs to support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27835	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a FREE ZONE LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour 36 minutes, DSS – one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, the DS parliamentary group – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPS – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 – 20 minutes and 24 seconds, for European Serbia – six minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs, five minutes each, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives are authorised: the SRS parliamentary groups Natasa Jovanovic, the G17 plus Goran Jaksic, these are the only two powers. In the meantime, please get there in writing. Thank you. Does Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27836	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law on free zones, which should improve the economic environment and lead to further growth of social product, exports, employment. What exactly are free zones? Free zones are essentially fenced and marked in a special way, in which the government further guarantees and stimulates the business regime, primarily based on customs and tax benefits, but also on the simplification of administrative procedures. In other words, those operating in the free zone may import goods and services with the temporary release of customs and value added tax, as well as other tax and administrative reliefs and, then, in the event that they export that goods, they never pay taxes, since the imported goods are intended for export. They are thus privileged because they do not necessarily have to allocate money for customs and value added tax, since they will later implement the goods. However, if those goods are sold on the domestic market, they subsequently pay value added tax on imports of these goods, as well as their respective customs duties. However, in all countries where success has been achieved, areas are set up not only to improve exports from a country, but also to stimulate the development of underdeveloped regions. Therefore, it is allowed, in the case of justified reasons, and the possibility of zones forming, to help those who produce these goods liquidally to place them on the domestic market, but provided that it is an undeveloped region. It is a way to stimulate businesses to move their production and where there is currently no greater market interest in business. Unlike the previous law, which imposed that at least 51% of the production must go into export, this law does not require it. In other words, it is desirable and the government will stimulate such an approach, but it is not necessary, given the rules of the World Trade Organisation which explicitly prohibits it. In other words, the zone is formed primarily to increase employment in a region, in order to increase the level of economic activity, and of course it is the government that determines which criteria it will issue permits and exports will certainly be one of the essential criteria. This is one liberal law. What are the reasons for the law? The existing law did open up the possibility of operating a zone, but it was rather imprecise and enabled abuses, so that at this point in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are only three zones, out of 15 of which in the previous 10-15 years have been authorised to work. In fact, the control of the Tax Administration has been established that only the free zones of Piroth, Subotica and the newly established zone of Zrenjanin are operating in accordance with the law. All the others were essentially large warehouses that allowed the goods to be imported without paying VAT and customs duties for the domestic market, without having any effect of production there, but it was a trade. Some zones have never essentially worked, such as Kovin, no matter how long ago they got permission to work. Covin's not the only one here. On the other hand, Pirot was indeed one of the rare zones, and now, thanks above all to the Tiger, who took advantage of these legal privileges and the largest part of that production, far over 50%, ends in exports. This also provides a foreign exchange inflow for the country. This law, which is now in force, does not provide sufficient application of the government's incentive measures. It also makes it impossible for the government to play an active role in promoting and functioning, controlling free zones. The law, which was made together with representatives of some of the existing successful zones, primarily the area in Piroth, is fully in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and EU regulations. The aim of lawmaking is, among other things, to encourage foreign direct investment, as well as to encourage the development of underdeveloped and underdeveloped areas. As regards the rules of operation in the zones, when a specific area is authorised and declared free zone, goods and services imported in that area are temporarily exempt from customs and VAT payments. As I've already said, that's how a company that operates saves liquid assets. If, after the end of the cycle, the goods or export services are permanently exempt from VAT and customs payments, since no VAT or customs duties are charged on exports, and this is an indirect stimulation of exports. Those who are large exporters, located in areas, will essentially not have any costs for VAT and customs, and the country will thus encourage export growth. If, however, the government wants to, and wants to, encourage not only exporters, but also the development of underdeveloped areas, it will allow those local self-governments that show serious intent, and prove that they will establish free zones even for production not only for export purposes, but also for the domestic market, where producers are given the advantage of being temporarily released from customs and VAT payments. In this way, they can use these liquid assets to produce, and then when they sell these goods they have to pay both customs and VAT, but they get time. In this way, funds can be used at the beginning of the cycle for production, not for paying taxes to the state. Finally, the state collects these duties, so that we give one time stimulant and producers potentially producing for the domestic market, but will insist that such production is primarily located, if it is not for export, in less developed areas, in order to favour these areas, while in developed areas we will insist that they be predominantly export-oriented enterprises. The papers in this law are to abolish the obligation to share domestic capital in the zone management company. So, completely liberal can also be domestic, can be foreign and mixed, but there is no obligation to have domestic participation. If it's just a page, it's allowed. Also, the payment of customs registration duties of 0.5% of the value of imported goods is lifted. If you import goods out of the zone, you pay a regular 0.5% duty for customs registration; if that goods are imported for production in the zone, then it is not paid. It also abolished the percentage amount of annual exports from the zone as a criterion for assessing the performance of the zone. I've already said it's not just export criteria, but other criteria, such as hiring people, developing an underdeveloped area, are an essential criterion for establishing a zone. This law accurately defines how someone can apply for the establishment of a zone, who competes, what kind of economic justification elaborates they have to make. It also envisions the establishment of a free zone administration within the finance ministry. It will be the administration that will only deal with, on the one hand, granting authorisation for the operation of the zone, on the other hand, control the efficiency of the work zone. In this law, true solutions are given when the zone ceases to operate; as it determines the termination of the importance of consent which determines the area of the zone and all other things that are related to the Free Zone Administration. The task of the administration is to carry out work in the area of the development of free zones, the promotion of these zones, as well as the control and surveillance of the zones. We expect the following effects from this law: given the experience so far, all the serious producers who are now coming to Serbia are first asking whether or not there is a free zone in a city and many of the foreign direct investors are just deciding to locate their production in local self-government where there is a free zone. In that sense, there is indeed a great interest above all, so far, for areas in northern Serbia, so in Vojvodina, Zrenjanin and Subotics, although I say that so far the most successful zone is still Pirot. But the fact is that it is "Tiger" that bears most of the success of the zone and that it is necessary for the development of southern Serbia to do much more than this law itself. We intend to really finish corridor 10 in southern Serbia within the shortest period of time, in order to increase the attractiveness of the zones to be located there. Also, as I announced some weeks ago -- two days ago in the Assembly, the plan is to develop a pipeline network from the border with Bulgaria, across southern Serbia to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the idea is to agree with the Russian Federation to expand the Nabucco project on Serbia's territory, so that a large highway pipeline across Dimitrovgrad from Nis spreads to central Serbia and south down to Leskovac. With these two large infrastructure projects – the completion of Corridor 10 and the development of highways on the territory of all Serbia, as well as gas pipeline networks – we will certainly indirectly increase the attractiveness of business in areas. Because those who come insist on a few things: whether they have privileges and have them if they are in areas, whether they have a cheap source of energy supply, which is now gas, and the third thing they insist on is how fast they can transport their goods to countries, above all, the EU. So they care about traffic infrastructure. We expect this law to lead to a reduction in the external trade deficit, as it will primarily stimulate companies that export most of their products. It will also contribute to the development of undeveloped areas. We expect it to increase investor confidence and interest, both domestic and foreign, for business in Serbia. Finally, this law also regulates the status of those zones that started working before the entry into force of this law. All those zones that are now authorised are required to re-apply to grant consent to the area of the zone, to provide information on the earlier submitted economic justification lab. I would also like to stress that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget this year, but it will be necessary to provide additional funding in the Republic's 2007 budget. Finally, local self-government can also be initiators for the establishment of the zone, except for the zone management companies, and I want to say that so far experience has been saying that some local self-governments have taken the whole job rather unseriously. For example, there are appropriate geographical criteria as to what a zone should look like for investors to be interested in locating production in it. There are some cities that think it's possible at a distance of 30 km to four - five locations, completely different, to ask for a request to be a zone; it's simply impossible. Of course, here is the question of how and who will succeed this chance the law offers to take advantage of. I think it'll all depend on specific local self-government. That local self-government that takes seriously the benefits of this law will first go into the expropriation of private land to form appropriate technical continents, and those local self-governments who think that someone will come to them, without their involvement and investment, are wrongly wronged there. Therefore, this law provides for further economic progress, but the exploitation of the capacity of this law will primarily depend on the ability and capacity of specific local self-governments. I therefore call on all municipalities in Serbia to study this law well and to meet all the requirements as soon as possible, in order to attract investors to this area, and this means then improving the standard of living in a specific municipality, employment and overall economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27837	I thank Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27838	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes Serbia should have a law on free zones, but not as proposed by Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Usually, the G17 MPs tend to criticise, in the absence of arguments, that the MPs of the SRS are to God because they just don't like some law writing the amendments "expunge". I don't see what's wrong with it, it's ideal when we want to put some law away, or not at all get adopted, or when we think it's done badly from the beginning to the end. This one we consider to have some technical elements that can be accepted, but what I have in my hand is a brand-new law that has been done by an SRS parliamentary group. We have not submitted this draft law on free zones as a parliamentary group, or asked the assembly majority to come to the agenda according to the procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because at the beginning of this mandate and this conclusion of the Government after our convincing victory in 2003, in parliamentary elections, if you remember, in February of 2004, we submitted several very important systemic ones, which you would say, the law, however, only months after that came before the National Assembly came to the proposal with 82 signatures from the SRS MPs. You refused to discuss them, and then we realized that the best way to take care of all areas of our economic and social life by coming to power from the SRS. That'll be soon, in a few months. This is the situation and this is the state of the voter body in Serbia, we are absolutely convinced. Even those agencies that we don't order, like Gallup or her, said a few days ago that in a situation where the SRS has over 40% of the stasis at this point, redistribute the mandate, because many of them can't skip the censorship by using that drumstick, we would have the majority to function, or to form a government on our own, and be sure that we will do anything to make it happen. Then we will begin to edit one area at a time our social life and I believe, since we have received a negative answer for these amendments, they are in the form of an amendment because they are reactions to your law, which is actually the law of the SRS on free zones, that we will be able to adopt it very quickly, that is, to change the one that Mladjan Dinkic has now proposed. We consider this proposed law to be a monopoliestic character. Declaratively, the minister advocates that all units of local self-government, and those who need to regain their free zone status, can compete. But who? You, i.e. the Minister of Finance and this republican government. Then we go back to that story we talked about all day, about funding local self-government and what the government's relationship to local self-government and environments are like, where Serbian radicals are in power. I immediately fell into this reasoning of the law, i.e., the minister did not say, however, he almost read everything out of the explanation, added something else, but did not mention this key thing for you – that it was a request from the World Trade Organisation. We have nothing against this international association, nor against any kind of integration for the benefit of our country, our people and all the citizens who live here, but I must remind you, including the Minister himself, that the Russian Federation has been waiting for 20 years to become a full member of the World Trade Organisation and they are constantly under new and additional conditions. It's a country that is our friendly and brotherly people, which has a huge expansion in economic development, in the external trade giant surplus, large foreign exchange reserves. Now, I had the privilege and opportunity to stay in the Russian Federation for several days during the Easter holidays in the SRS delegation, to talk to their deputies, so our colleagues, their businessmen and people who see the situation before and after Jeljecin, or the collapse of the former Soviet Union, that period of elekcinism, and when Russia crawled, that is, on its knees and now these great economic expansions. It's a huge space and a country that in these 5,000 listed free zones, who knows how much there is, well, interestingly, but I didn't know exactly that information... Many countries, not only the former eastern bloc, but the countries of the Middle and Far East, countries that have their geographical location and resources, especially waterways, countries that have large and small ports, and how they use the possibility of creating free zones. It is true in a theoretical sense that what the minister said is that there is an expansion of production, economic growth, exports, but it will not happen in Serbia under this authority, nor in the way that you predicted it here. Now let's go back to the period after October 5th, as you normally count your time in your heads before and after October 5th. After the October 5, 2000, that coup you performed, there was chaos and indeed a criminal manner of conduct, even when it comes to this area, because Zabunovic, at this point I can't remember his name, with a crisis staff, broke into the Federal Customs Administration. After that, you know yourself that Vladan Begovic came as director of the Federal Customs Administration, that Zoran Djindjic formed that criminal DOS government and that there was an end to the free zones and leaving only three free zones on the move of Dimitrovgrad, or Pirot, according to the Bulgarian border, the free zone of Zrenjanin only later formed and free zones of Subotica. There's a question of what you've been doing, what you've been waiting for when it's a request, to which you want to answer, the World Trade Organization all these years. In the meantime, you're... And for the sake of the public, I must remind you that I do not know how to remind you of another group that our people survived before this May 21st event, when separatists Milo Djukanovic, with the help of Shiptar, performed a secession of the Serbian Republic of Montenegro, that harmonisation, according to a double track system with Montenegro, customs rates and customs regulations on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, was carried out by Cedomir Jovanovic. What's worse than that? What is to be surprised, then, is that there was an end to the free zones and that Zabunovic was for a time the director of the Federal Customs Administration, which came after this Begovic and that there was no development and strategic projects for the free zones. First of all, I have to say that Article 5, that's the key thing in this law, point 5, against the Constitution. This law, if we had the Constitutional Court right, and not the Political Constitutional Court (and God would soon change that by changing power in Serbia), could not survive just because of this one member. You're saying, in terms of conditions of submission, in Article 5, that a company can apply for the establishment of a zone provided that the founder of the zone was not the founder of a free zone management company whose decision by the government ended the validity of the consent for the establishment of a free zone. Where did you find the basis of the Constitution for a member like this, point 5? Who are you to a legal entity (there are experts, SRS lawyers who, if you don't know it, can confirm to you, or your professional services), who are those who can ban a company operating in accordance with the Business Society Act, which previously had permission to re-emerge as such? It's classic discrimination. So, all those who have done some work before, and have done nothing to bring criminal sanctions, this member of the law cannot appear. You have also dared to say in Article 27(2) that the agreement determining the area of the zone ceases to apply under the act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's actually the government's monopoly on how it's going to decide. You still went one step further to say, and this is against the constitution – if the responsible person of the economic society for the management of the zone, as well as the responsible person in the legal person, whose legal follower is legally convicted of the crime against the economy, property, illicit trade. If someone is against crime and corruption, we clearly demonstrated it to you a few days ago at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens know it well, then it's the SRS. Of course, we should never advocate that criminals and tycoons, those supported by both this government and which it created, first of all, the Democratic Party, manage such important economic and resource and resources or areas, in this sense, the law predicts what a free zone means. If we have a law in Serbia, the Law on Judges says that a judge who, up to 6 months has been legally sentenced and maintained a prison sentence – so he did time in prisons, where many will lie from both this authority and the previous and all on the later and vertical line connected with you, in Serbia when real justice comes, it is slow, but it is available – who are you to tell someone who had it behind him, such a period, or had a mounted political process undermining... You remember back then, so-called. The technical moves of individual directors, managers, that's what senior fellow Members of Parliament know during communist self-government. You also want to count the fact that someone under Broz and Cardellj was allegedly convicted and served for some economic offenses and now this someone appears, still able to work, and wants to run such a company and you say – he can't because he was the one and he was the one. It's just amazing. What I'm saying is that this law is badly done and because you continue a very bad practice, you set up various agencies, administrations, etc., megalomanical state apparatus, so-called. Management for free zones, against which the SRS is. To justify what this administration is going to do, who knows what number of employees, as a government body, you say it will work closely with the Export Promotion Agency. The Export Promotion Agency played a 50m-euro role in its founding role by the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the total amount of funds foreseen. Just tell me where you did the export promotion, and from these three free zones, and what a foreign trade deficit is now, what we've promoted, which are semi-factory or ready to plant that we can export. There is no such thing in Serbia at all. We can neither boast nor boast, because what we can export to the EU market with their strict regulations and conditions and blackmails... Let's just say, with the Russian Federation, we've had a free trade agreement since 1998, we're no use, because it didn't want the previous or current government to do it. They're wondering and they're really right to wonder what it is like for our colleague in Russia, and for the president of their country, but they know that this will change with the arrival of the SRS to power. Now you are not asking the strategic question that are future free zones, are those that once had status, so you want this law to bring them back, because this law is absolutely focused only on Belgrade, I have nothing against it, but it is clear that it is aimed at Belgrade having a large free zone, i.e. a rounded continent in the city, and that others are getting a spoon. There's been a big con on the arrival of these previous dosmanias, this other form from which you came, the minister himself and many of you, in the period of government until 2004. In the municipality of Lapovo these "yellow" from the DS and some, I think it's called Borislav, and his nickname is Borisa, Jelenkovic, imagine that an interesting name and last name, as chairman of the Executive Board of SO Lapovo, promised that Lapovo would get the status of the free zone. However, only two OMV pumps were built, on land for which the question was whether or not it was paid at what price, only a few dozen people were employed. Of the rest, nothing, an oasis of dosage fraud, as we wrote in our "Greater Serbia" list. So, what's been bothering you, and what's been bothering you all these six years that Lapovo has free zone status? Here, this unfortunate man was from a dossian conglomerate and promised, took his money, did a man's job for a handful of people, placed in the field by the road, which was accidentally on the edge of the so-called. Free zones, a billboard that makes money, and the rest of them don't give a shit. That's how you behave when it comes to your interests. When it comes to general interest and when it comes to something that is the backbone of Serbia and economic development, you do not mention it. So here, today in this presentation, I may also be using the time of our parliamentary group, but certainly according to the amendments, which are not amendments and reactions, your MP Jaksic noticed this, too, to your member... When we say that Article 24, let's say, it doesn't change the essence of your proposal 24, but it gives a whole new form of law, the way the SRS sees it. For example, we believe that foreign citizens and their business entities can, but only to a level of 49% of capital, do business in free zones, because that way we want to protect us as a state and our market. It's one principle we have to have and when it comes to electricity, when it comes to water resources, when it comes to everything that the state has as a strategic resource. Many years ago, in the early 1970s, a large elaborate was done by experts, experts from the SRS last year to the final details, doctors of science in the field of spatial planning and construction. I'm just going to explain to you today, or to the citizens of Serbia, how we imagine the functioning of the free zones when we're in power and what we do better and what we offer to the citizens than this prescribed law of yours. We believe that the state of Serbia is a state in which nothing is invested, because the criminogenic structures are in power, both from 5 October to 2004, and by your coming to power. Investments coming in, safe investments, not borrowing and loans, such as those in Novi Sad, the construction of a TE of over 600m euros, which arrived in Serbia by Russia, thanks to Tomislav Nikolic's personal engagement, is only one of the investments in a series. Experts who worked this elaborate – why public works in Serbia, where Serbia should go and progress, based their project on an investment worth more than $15 billion in the construction of infrastructure, which could bring tens of billions of dollars to Serbia for a period of 15 to 20 years from the construction day, and until the construction day itself, a project that could be actively involved in 1.5 million people we could immediately employ. In fact, we believe that the Morava River is the backbone of Serbia's development and that its connection with the Danube waterway, which has its most economical factor in Western Europe, on the functioning of the Danube, Rajna and Maine, would now be through a translation that would be done for ships from the Danube level to the Morava level, all the south across Morava to Vardar, i.e. to Aksios and to the port of Greece and to the Aegean Sea, and how it could be a strategic project for Serbia, which will certainly realise the SRS. This already opens up opportunities for several free zones. Today we only have, again, to absorb, Zrenjanin, Dimitrovgrad and Subotica; Novi Sad has lost that status for no reason, and I have already mentioned the Lapova that had it in the penitentiary. We Serbian radicals also believe that it is strategically important to build and dig up Velika Morava to Vardar, and further to Axios in Greece and to cut waterways for three-and-a-half days for the ships he spoke of, or some others, it is likely that Minister Dinkic talked about, in addition to our geopolitical and geostrategic position, and how important both for Western and other investors, who are looking forward to the arrival of Serbian radicals into power to invest in one such project. The key port in this project of digging up Velika Morava would certainly be the town of Stalac, the town of Kruševac, Jagodina. What is very important is the fact that, through not only the water flow, but through the exploitation of water levels from these large and more frequent rainy periods, through dry, or to the creation of a well through the digging of the Morava stream, so that ships of 1350 tonnes, 18 to 23 metres long, can sail through the dry, i.e. the water flow can satisfy the construction of complete infrastructure, not only in this, but in all cities in the entire sea basin. We think that this is very important and that what the Republic Government is doing today and the Minister of Capital Investments is distracting; we now have a stake in the Great Plane, which is being patched up for the past two years. It was also done because of the high frequency of freighters on the highway, i.e. a truck of great loadability, so that through a project like this that I repeat again, for the next 12 years employs a million and a half people and brings direct investment into a $15 billion infrastructure, raises Serbia to its feet, with everything else to be done. (President: Time.) ) We believe that this is also important because of the fact that we have not had any production in the free zones so far, and that many other poor countries are also in our environment... I have to remind you of those countries that have experienced expansion, which have never had any tradition in the automotive industry, such as the arrival in car lotes of the car brand "suzuki" or "toots" in Hungary or Greece, Macedonia, through the creation of free zones and through production, during the transport of these parts, or cars in lotes, and how they employ many workers, though, cheaper labour than it is in the west, but gave an incentive to develop their economy. (President: Time.) I'll finish, Mr. Angelkovic, because this is really an extensive and long subject and a story I'm going to talk about later. Not only are the countries of Western Europe and in contact with the representatives of the SRS, which are today spoken by the presidents of municipalities, the countries of Podutun and how they force this project, but above all, they are interested in all those who believe that energy, energy for the future, such as this project of building the TE on gas or such as using water and building HE with 100 megawatts using that water annually, which is about 10% of what Đerdap has today, and how energy is potential for our country. Not to mention trade boom and development, the possibility of selling everything produced in our country or as a semi-factory through contracts coming through a free zone or through shipping to ships or what is yet to be done, to final production, which we have strictly defined to the members of the law from 21 to 26, that foreign and domestic goods in that case must have the same status. These are things serious people think about. Construction of cross-border channels and systems, mentioned translators, to bridge the level of Danube and Morava, through a complete not-communal infrastructure, but infrastructure large buildings, business buildings, production facilities, that's something that experts in the SRS are thinking about, and not you as experts who have ruined and robbed the state, and six years ago instead of thinking about hiring people, we have over a million people without a job. This is just one in a series of serious things and tangible and real projects that I believe we will soon be able to implement. If we are unable to do so and help the citizens of Serbia, and above all to the entire southern Serbia that has been neglected by both this and the previous authorities, then we have done nothing. We want each end of Serbia to have a balanced development, and in addition to what we have to preserve, make sure that the waterway construction project through the Morava River and something like this, which is intended to do future ministers, investors who are attracted to the SRS, is a real basis that Serbian citizens can now think that there is hope for them and for their children. Of course, by the way, and not in this way as it promotes one of the leading in the process of criminalising society, the one who inherited the previous director of the Customs Administration through this brochure "Stop Corruption"... You know, that's what they say in the system. Keep the thief, and they're the biggest thieves. If you look at the extent of corruption, not with ordinary people and customs officers, but with those who manage through the work of our customs zones (and he cannot boast about this brochure, the question is how much this costs Serbian citizens, printing such luxury brochures), you will see that these are all incompetent people. There is no difference between him and Zabunovic and that mentioned Begovic, as there is no difference between Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic and the others from the previous furniture that we have driven out of power with the will of the citizens. Now we're going to do it, but of course in a much higher percentage, we're going to manage on our own; let us go through Serbia's spinal column with the construction of the Great Morava project and all the thermal power plants and all the factories that we're able to do in Serbia, and you're going to take a good look at it over little screens or something like that, how do politicians who will the people leave power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27839	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27840	I listened very carefully to the previous presentation. Basically, the amendments given by the Serbian Radical Party formally mean, as has already been said, the passing of a new law, however, I would like to tell the MPs that the essence of all amendments to the SRS is actually the return of the old law, and we are changing it with some minor corrections. That's why we rejected all amendments to the SRS, because the old law led to the next situation. We have 15 years of law that exists on paper, the lady mentioned some concrete examples, and I would like to explain why we took the license to work, for example, in the free zone of Novi Sad, the Lapovo, and I don't mind saying why we took the work permit and the free zone of Belgrade. There's no difference between one city and another. Our tax controls were exactly the same for everyone. As for the Lapovo free zone, the control was carried out for the period from 2002 to 2005. There are 10 users in this area, all 10 are in storage, no production at all. So it's a zone that doesn't produce anything, so they avoid paying the state of customs and VAT. That's not the point, that's where they make warehouses in the zones, but to encourage production, any goods, any services. On the other hand, the free zone of Novi Sad is something different, but it's the same effect. The free zone of Novi Sad has 114 users, of which both letters and numbers are only one in production, 113 is warehouses, and only the company "Lanterna" deals in fact with what made the zone. The company "Lanterna" normally produces lighting bodies, chandeliers and the like, and has made a sale on the domestic market of one million and 100 thousand euros over three years, exported half a million euros, imported a 240 thousand-euro reproduction, and that is all the traffic of one on a big zone paper like Novi Sad. So, in three years, only two million euros, which is the effect of an individual company. And I'm going to do all the honors of this company, so it deals with what it deserves to be a member of the zone, but even 113 users simply don't have any production. For example, let me compare a big New Sad to you, I don't want a Lap, it's clear to Lap. So, Novi Sad has exported half a million euros in three years, and Pirot 206m euros in Novi Sad, and 2m euros in Novi Sad. That was the only reason, none other, why we took the license to work in the free zones of Novi Sad, Belgrade, Prahovo, Panchevo, Shabac, Smederevo, Sremska Mitrovica and Lapovo. The others, therefore, are only newly founded Zrenjanin, Pirot, who really records the best results, and Subotica, which also has over 50% of the production and ends in exports. So there's no other reason, I think it's important that you have accurate and accurate data. For really purely professional reasons, we believe that the old law was one step ahead at a time when it was brought in and some used it, first of all Pirot somewhat less, then Subotic, but now it's time to pass a more modern law. This is the only reason why we reject all amendments to the SRS, since these amendments are returning to the old ones, to this system that led to the avoidance of taxes and customs duties to the state, not with the effect of hiring people, but above all, there were warehouses, where the goods were only delivered and then sold without taxes afterwards; it is simply not the function of the zone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27841	Miss Natasa Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27842	The majority of this law in a team of MPs who have done this SRS bill has done an expert on this area, and this is Mr. Zoran Krasic, former trade minister. This law is good for the reason that Zoran Krasic did it, and most of all because it is a law that prevents any kind of abuse. You can say that you do not accept amendments to the bill and that it is similar to one of the previous ones, and that the previous one allowed the possibility of tax evasion and to create warehouses. That's exactly what I was talking about. You're now saying, between 2002 and 2005, you found that in the Lapovo zone. In the Lapovo zone is not the SRS in power, we are the strongest opposition there, and that of the previous DS and now the SPO, if it still exists, and Pejcic says, there is maybe 2%. So, we want to encourage production, and I was talking about it the most, so that by creating these new free zones through this project, which I was talking about, and that's just part of one study, one big lab, we create that possibility. Our goal is that many things that have never been produced in Serbia are produced in free zones and that we have exports. Why not? We're not about to just run a warehouse. I have to remind you, as some say, but it's important to pawn the SRS from the renewal of the multi-party, maybe you were then uninterested in political events or you were just torturing yourself there at the university with status, or what I know about what problems and obligations you had, but I remember clearly our position since 1991, and it stands in the SRS programme. It also stands, therefore, when it comes to establishing free zones, and who has to pay taxes, how much tax to the state, what can be the founding role of foreigners etc. If you remember, we advocated it, the books were written by Professor Vojislav Seselj, about crime, about corruption, about cigarette smuggling, about what was happening in factories, which were used before privatisation only for the passage of foreign cigarettes and for the smuggling of huge proportions and for the entry of these goods for which no one paid customs or excise duty into our market. And, because of these mob clans' reckonings and because of numerous murders both in Belgrade and other streets and related clans with criminals under the criminal rule of Milo Djukanovic, it all happened, and from there it was not an affair, but a book that was the most read and daily people are looking to buy and read – "Stanko Subotic - Cane Zabbac, king of the tobacco mafia". You know that we, as a party from the very beginning, have advocated that within the factory, and, personally, Zoran Krasic insisted on it, pays everything, belonging to taxes and excise duties to the state, so that there is no abuse, manipulation and smuggling of huge proportions. Now you know when Lapovo will be developed free zone, or Stalać who is not even in your mind, because you are not even thinking about the development of such a strategic project that Mr. Angelkovic as Moravac and how well he understands, and as a man who comes from that area. Not only him, but everyone in Serbia who thinks normally and wants something created. We just write and say it, that and that. How can you survive this law, in Article 5(5), to not allow people who previously had permission to compete and to appear now as representatives of these companies? That's just impossible. How did you get to take them away? Unbelievable. That's the fundamental difference. It was also understood by your MP from your MP group, your authorised representative. We think completely differently about this subject and we have a completely different project. We think ours is better. Now, which you won't accept, my God, for a few more months, I know you won't even advance your business in these free zones until September, October, until you've already had the will of the citizens to leave the government, and then we'll be able to make it easy with the newly established and the projects we intend to do. The law will change easily. In one day we will succeed all with a parliamentary majority of 130 or 150, I will not bid, MPs; we will put aside the hours of work all the laws that are not working, we will make the necessary changes and additions and we will finish the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27843	It's right around Morava, though, I was born next to the longest state river now. Western Morava is today the longest river in the state of Serbia. Goran Jaksic, as an authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27844	Dear MPs, today at this extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament, we have another of two, which is a total of three laws that I consider, and most of our public, especially those interested in the economy and the economy, justifiably the most significant, almost revolutionary proposals of the law that should be and how they affect the long-term much stronger and faster development of the economy in this country. We've had two laws so far, and these are the law amending the law on the income of citizens and amending the Law on contributions to compulsory social security. For the first time in Serbia's modern history, these two laws should, for the first time, reduce wages, i.e. the burden of employees on their salaries, which has never appeared in Serbia's modern history, with a completely new solution to how these contributions, i.e. income tax and social security are applied. That's what I was talking about when there was a debate about these two laws. These funds should directly affect the development of the economy of the companies, i.e. employers, employers' ideas, business policies, as well as the possible increase in employees' salaries that can reach up to 20%. This is the third law in that set, and I think we share the same opinion of all, very important laws directly responsible for the development of the economy, which is the law on free zones. There was very little talk about this law. Unfortunately, although there was a legal basis for this type of activity, economic activity in the area of free zones, is being implemented in a convenient, or possible way in terms of development and employment and economy in general, the law that has been in force so far probably had certain shortcomings. The law is good, as the minister said, when it was passed, because it opened up the possibility of such economic activities, but I think the time has shown, and they also showed the facts in the end, that the law should be changed properly and that it should be adapted. What is very important, any convenience, especially a very broad benefit provided by free zones, leaves the possibility of being abused. It's a general fact not only in this country, in all actions it is. The new proposal for a zone law aims to prevent these abuses and to only leave open opportunities for the development of the economy in these zones. To come from that fact, we had one law, and it was a federal law, a law on free zones; when SRJ stopped functioning, it was almost like a lex specialis, transferred to Serbia level, that law was automatically brought down or transferred to the Republic level. That is why there is a need for a new free zone law to be established in the state of Serbia. I said earlier that the observed occurrences of abuse of what the law allows as benefits, which was another reason for making this law, and there are a whole set of different reasons in terms of benefits that this new law and some further laws that will be related to this area define or should define. Also, the truth of the will, in the draft of this law, was made one appropriate triumph of the proponents, i.e. the people who worked the law. The Ministry of Finance participated in the draft law with its respective services, i.e. portfolios; then representatives of the Free Zones Association were involved within the Chamber of Commerce, as well as MPs of this House, MPs of the G17 Plus Group. So, it's not enough, I have to say again, taken into account the possibility of operating within free zones. That's what he was talking about in the opening part of the minister himself. To the possibility, I'll give you a few facts, which exists in the zones used by others long before us and simply don't need to invent hot water, but use exactly other people's experiences when it comes to economics. Those other people's experiences are the cheapest and we should use them. There are free zones in the world in a large number of countries and a large number of countries, I would allow that term, using the possibility of working in free zones wisely. We have free zones in the U.S., over 150 directly formed free zones operating within the United States, with a huge turnover of capital. It is areas where it is produced, which is the primary goal, and so said Mr. Dinkic. The objective of the zone is production, we all agreed, even part of the position and opposition in this assembly, when we talk about this law, the goal is just production. In addition to the United States, we have free zones in large numbers in Central America, which work very well, and then in Europe we have several countries where there are a large number of free zones, where this is legally very well regulated. Free zones existed, and today in a certain way they function within Hungary, which free zones worked in Hungary. Free zones exist in Turkey, largely, and they work very successfully and this is one whole, let me say, part of business, or economy within the Middle and Far East. In China, the functioning of free zones and economies within free zones has risen to a level of special business philosophy. In China, free zones are used maximum and in free zones in China a very large number of companies operate and a large number of people work in free zones and earn income. It is, therefore, data that tells us that and how we have reason to make people invest in free zones by this new law, to create before they invest the environment, so legally so that the state gives appropriate incentives, which it has already given and we expect it to continue to give, because the law practically allows it. Of course, this bill raises the level of responsibility that the founders, the Zone Management Society and those working in the zone will have, and that responsibility will be effectively controlled by the Ministry of Finance and by the newly formed Free Zone Administration. When we talk about world trends, I have information that probably a small number of people know, and I think it will really intrigrate investors and businessmen, very interesting data: from the total exports that were achieved in the world in 2002 almost 30% of exports to the world were made through free zones. When you turn it into billions of dollars, it's really fragrant data. The world, I'm sure of it, and I've always said it, it's not, at least it's not much smarter than we are. If there's a trend in the world that almost 30% of total exports in the world are done across the zone, why don't we do it, why don't we do the right legal framework to stimulate it, to control it at the same time, but to achieve something like that. In Serbia, unfortunately, in 2002, exports to zones were only 4%. So, the old law obviously didn't provide the possibility for the zones to develop enough and make use of the zones. We need to speak in a clear language, we need to use, why not, and the opportunities to increase both productivity and production and employment in this country. At the same time, let's be honest again, we may not like it, but obviously, the formation of a zone and promotion of work in free zones and the exploitation of free zones, in terms of new investments, exports, in earlier governments, has not been properly considered. I must say, not to be misunderstood, but fortunately for this country and this economy, this government has realized the possibility of free zones being used this way. This is certainly also one of the reasons why it goes to the establishment of a free zone administration, which should also control the work in free zones, but that it primarily interferes with the development of free zones, that it helps to open free zones and that, together with other institutions of this country, this activity that opens up great opportunities further develops. We are often criticised, the part that supports the government in this parliament, which is the government, that part of the legislation has been directed too much towards the European Union's demands and that our entire life course, first of all, is thought of finance, we are turning towards the EU and we are entering the EU. Here's a chance to say that maybe that's not the case. Free zones and free zones are particularly interesting for Europe's countries while not yet within the EU. This is the possibility, therefore, through the development of free zones and this new law, to use the free zones in the best possible way, that the benefits that those who produce in the free zones may benefit from during that period until we join the EU. Of course, there is the possibility that later zones can be used, that there may be no confusion, but right here is a very advanced, modern and very practical idea of the Ministry of Finance – that the promotion of free zones is precisely aimed at this period before Serbia's entry into the EU. In order not to over-repeat what Mr Dinkic has stated in the reasoning of the law, I will repeat it once again, I think it is important for all of these reasons that I have said, but I would add a few things – the law, as it is now in front of MPs, defines some things more precisely, and it was definitely missing in that old lex specialis law. He was welcome at the time, but he didn't do things right, technical things, after all, solve things. Here in the new law we have very precise provisions regarding the conditions for submission of requests, as well as how these requirements should look, simply one portfolio when someone wants to open a zone, or form a zone, to create a zone management company, how it should do so to make it work properly and ultimately the state would not have any harm. Of course, everything the state has damage to can't be subject to any serious law and that can't be supported by any serious government, and that doesn't support this government or this Ministry of Finance. To what extent it is important to pass such a law and to what extent the Government sees, and to what extent this Parliament, I hope, the importance of this law, I will also read Article 7 in which it defines what it is necessary and what the Government sees as a need and condition for the establishment of a free zone – the determination of the area of the zone is economically justified if it can be estimated that a positive effect will be achieved in terms of attracting foreign capital, the production of goods and the provision of services, employment, transfer of modern technologies, economic restructuring and business in the zone will contribute to the achievement of the strategy of development and the measure of economic policy in this country. So this law shows that the government sees the zones as a place to develop, above all, an area that, as the finance minister said, simply requires increased economic development, and free zones make it possible. I just said it's a free zone administration. It's not an agency, to be perfectly clear, since it's still a big difference. The existence, or formation of a free zone administration, is simply a practical necessity. I just said why - a promotion should be done, people should be helped if it is an important thing, and it is an important thing, the formation of free zones, for the development of Serbia's economy. It needs to be encouraged, controlled, and, to do it again, to help. So far there's been talk about it, and some kind of criticism, why a dozen zones are closed. The old law helped them a little, conditionally speaking, to be closed, not precise enough and left the holes, to say so simply, for certain abuses. It might be, and maybe I'll put it under quote because I'm sure it would have been good if by now the old law had provided for a free zone administration, which could have just been those areas that had been functioning, but which unfortunately stopped working on the government's decision to help, monitor, monitor them, and intervene in time with certain mechanisms that did not happen, which is why these zones unfortunately stopped working. This is one of the important reasons why a new administration is formed that needs to do the job and carry out the shared controls. The commercial zone management company is required within 90 days of the end of the calendar year to submit a report on the business of the zone to the administration of the free zones. Now we know exactly by this bill who is responsible for monitoring how this area works, businesses, free zones. The ministry will submit to the government an annual report on business in all areas of Serbia with an appropriate measure proposal. We believe, and the government has made that concept, that it should encourage what is done in free zones, but also give certain suggestions, recommendations, which may be more rigorous, but I am convinced that these recommendations will be stimulating. Area users are required to provide data on their business at the request of the Free Zone Administration. With the existence of administration, we will not have the possibility of some kind of abuse, i.e. not meeting those criteria and those conditions, which is why people should work in free zones and which is why free zones should be formed. Some things I said, and some and the finance minister, I think those who need to hear us have heard us. Once the law is passed, they will have the opportunity to read the law and adapt to it and be motivated to form a zone and operate within the zone. Doing business in areas, which is most important for the whole story, exporting goods and services from the zone and importing goods and services in the zone, are free, are not subject to any quantitative restrictions, nor are commercial policy measures applied to that import and export; it is clear what and how much the government wants to open up into this story with zones, that the user can temporarily export goods from the zone to another part of Serbia's territory, i.e. to bring goods into the zone from another part of Serbia, in order to put into the process of active and passive processing. This is important to know. The Zone Authority will encourage such things and talk about it. They don't just have to be connected to their territory, have a wider impact on other business entities in this country, and there's a possibility of co-operation between zones, with other companies that are outside the zone, and in an appropriate way, that everyone can benefit, and that's the idea – that as many companies, as many people as possible, the more employees benefit from the existence of the zone. What is currently in force at this point by amending the VAT Act, is only the first of a series of subsequent release mechanisms when it comes to the tax exemption, is the release of VAT payments on goods imported, or exported from the zone. At this point, it's 18%. We have one of the lower rates in Europe, but still, business people and people who deal with production, when the state frees you from paying the VAT 18%, has practically given you the opportunity to double the profit rate. In normal companies, the company makes a profit rate of 20% if it's good. With this release, we double the possibility, and how space is opened for people to be interested, to work and make money, by hiring people and making as many people as possible in Serbia. Why would it be only in the states of Central America, in the United States, in distant Central Asia and the Far East; let's use it and make this time in which we will apply this law is used in the best possible way. The intensity of this law, and I would like to conclude, is given in Article 26, there we will have the opportunity for certain positive activities related to the tax exemption. It is said that the user, i.e. an economic company for the management of the zone, may have tax reliefs in accordance with the rules governing corporate tax, property tax and citizen income tax. There is a possibility that the basic laws of the set of these fiscal laws may be amended in some future period and that users of the zone, as in other countries, have this type of release. A very liberal but very stimulating relationship between the finance ministry and this government has been seen in the drafting of this law and the government and the finance ministry have accepted the possibility of free zones being another direct engine of economic development in this country. Here's an opportunity for us to implement this through a legal solution and move on in the development of the economy in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27845	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives, heads of Parliament clubs or other authorised persons want a word? No, I don't. We're going to pick up a list of people that's registered for word. The first is MP Milan Nikolic, and to prepare Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27846	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every legislative proposal by the Government aims to resolve a particular area of social life, improve it, and all these proposals are very important. However, when it comes to the economic group of laws, for me as a man who deals with the economy, the most important thing is to improve the working conditions of this economy, which has been lagging behind for many years in relation to the environment. We definitely don't have a chance with this kind of development rate, even if it grows from year to year, to achieve the average developed countries in the environment. Perhaps one small chance is just to pass such liberal laws, such as today's law on free customs zones and especially tomorrow's foreign exchange law, where it is possible that if we have already (heard) 30% of world trade goes through free customs zones, we should use it as a country with high working potential, a country with professional labour and a country with poor ends, which have a chance to employ at least part of the workers in this way, and not only in the area, but also in the service of customs, logistics and services, etc. The customs zone should not be understood as a piece of isolated and fenced land. An infrastructure network, roads, telephony and any other measures necessary for business must come into the customs zone, and production should be organised in those areas, imports of goods for processing, processing, processing, processing, or I do not know what, and exports of such goods. It is good that the legislator is defined here for greater security of ino-investors or anyone who decides to invest in the area, because certain customs duties are released in buildings, and also releases customs duties after three years of use of machinery, which means there is no risk, and if it exits from the customs business process, it can liquidate its business, but it can continue its business with the payment of certain duties, customs, VAT, as well as business entities in this country do. The Ino-investor has an interest in one huge investment procedure, which is necessary to implement under current legislation, avoids and has direct business control over its business in the area. I think the experience from the previous business zone was enough to make it clear what a free zone is, who can be the founder of a free zone, who manages a free zone and what the rights of users of free zones are. It is very important that a strong and adequate promotion of the zone is made, not only in the country, but especially in the world, because I think that we are a country that has some advantage over other countries, not only geographically, but also in terms of professional labour. I think it is particularly important for underdeveloped areas to increase employment, which is quite certain and possible, to speed up development in these areas. How much would it mean for us to, say, have these 30% increase in external trade balances out of business across the zone, then, if we had that export and production, bigger investments, foreign investment and increased competitiveness of products are expected. In any case, we now have problems in the world with our products not only because of the quality, delivery deadlines, prices, etc., but also many other benefits this zone provides and which we will be able to provide in this way. Of course, it is very important that the adoption of such a law creates an opportunity to join the World Trade Organisation, while at the same time adapting our regulations to European legislation. It is logical that such a law, with the precise obligations of all participants in the creation and business of the zone, in the voting day, our parliamentary group - the SPS supports.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27847	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Veseinovic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Prime Minister Dinkic said earlier, it seems to me that we from the SRS are free to talk about this law, because as he suggests, it was interpreted that we want to go back to some old regulations, so for these reasons all our amendments and all our objections will be rejected. So he's already said in advance and sentenced this to failure, so he's not even interested in listening and he's gone. But it is not a problem that our amendments will be rejected, but it is a problem that a bad law will be passed and applied. Of course, it would be much better for them to listen and accept our amendments. If one is considered unacceptable, it is not disputed, but it is certain that there are much better solutions for us than is foreseen in this bill. But as the people say, "Zeman says, "Zeman shoots." The time will come, and we will make a law that will apply properly. We're here to say, for the sake of the citizens, for our sakes, everything that we think is not good in this law, and it has a lot of inconclusiveness, ambiguity, so it's going to be hard to apply for these reasons. I suppose, as is said, there will be imports, exports and production in these free zones, etc., with some benefits. There will certainly be compensation jobs. That's not what you're talking about, there's nothing said how it's meant and how it's done. Let's just say, I'm taking the case with Montenegro, the way it's been going before. If he exports to Montenegro, takes all the papers from the freighter, takes from customs and waits for the goods to be painted in Montenegro, to pay VAT in Montenegro and return that certificate, to prove that the goods have been exported and that VAT has been paid there and that is why VAT returns are being made. That's how it's been so far. However, if it was a compensatory business, it was not. Here, pay the VAT and finish the job. No more vomiting. All those who exported goods to Montenegro complained, for example. Maybe that's the past, but I guess the same thing will happen in this case. There's no telling what to do with these jobs, whether or not VAT will be paid in that case. Furthermore, what about natural persons, since they are users of free zones, are they defined anywhere in which amount they can buy goods without customs; since there will be processing, processing, etc., similar jobs in these technologies, will the samples be treated through both VAT and customs and to what amount? However, it should be defined, not to be for any sample to be used and these problems are being created and conditions are making it difficult. Furthermore, as far as environmental science is concerned, it is said that this will be taken into account. But I guess if a foreign investor, who we want to post-poly introduce to the country and be attractive to investment, if someone cares about investment, because the company in the tender and technology is finished, doesn't have to build infrastructure and, as the predecessor said, buildings in that free zone, because he's going to have to... As it is imagined, in the free zone not all of these infrastructures are waiting, so objects are made, an electrical network is created and only to rent what is leased – no, but it will have to be invested, that it is built and there will be problems. I guess it'll be imports, because of political pressures, dirty technologies, even harmful substances, like before. More used as some warehouses of the free zone, most likely for such goods. This problem will be even more prominent, especially now, as the ground for all abuses, machinations, crime etc. I would suggest that the goods, no matter what comes from a free export zone, go without customs, etc. Previously, to stimulate domestic production, export premiums were also given, why not give and now certain incentives for export, let's say, when our goods go to the world market to give certain reliefs, either through tax reliefs, or to compensate for it, so that in some way some stimulation for the export of goods. So far, no stimuli. I'm not just talking about this free zone, I'm talking about a trade with an outside partner. A year ago, we passed, whether the law, whether the regulation, doesn't matter, I don't know how defined it is, about privileged trade in textiles with EU countries. It's signed. What about this implementation and what are the effects? It's basically nothing. I think I talked about it once a year ago. That's what you knew. Why? Because we don't have the right technology to produce quality goods, and we've had before, but the block that's been ten years, so the conditions of privatisation, technological surpluses, personnel, all the better personnel have left production, they've gotten along and gone, and I'm especially talking about mid-term... I don't know how much anyone knows, but I, who was in the production, know perfectly well that production stands on medium frames. One technologist can prescribe technology for five companies, but it needs to be implemented, it needs to be done. It's these footage that's gone, they're gone because of the bad pay, and because of a series of other circumstances. Now even a foreign investor has no interest, and that's why they're not as many as we thought they'd show up in our tenders. On the other hand, we have not helped our own to protect ourselves in international competition, specifically from Chinese goods, etc. I believe that this law, as it is made, I feel intuitively, because as it's written, it only gives the possibility of importing certain goods, uncontrollably, like goods from China. It'll choke our domestic production, specifically textiles. That it is fortunate to give the possibility to medium and small enterprises, to help a little, to recover and create some associations, to be so powerful that they can export textiles to the world market, above all to the countries of the European Union, I think they would be good both in quality and in price. Our people saw, ran away from Chinese goods, no matter what the price, because they see that it's far behind the goods we once had, and at a price now we can compete with them and show that we can do good, quality and cheap goods. That's why I think we should do it, not just try this way, so it's going to happen that beyond our borders, uncontrollably huge quantities of any suspicious goods, it's going to be great to launder goods, money, and we're going to have a lot of problems with this law if it goes to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27849	The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as the previous legislative projects brought by this assembly council, so is this bill, in fact, that of the citizens of Serbia. So far, all the legal projects we adopted in this assembly have mostly been the character of applying tax duties, customs duties, or establishing some agencies, commissions, and centres. You didn't bring here, nor did you propose to this assembly, any legal project that would have a developmental character, so at least part of it you try to make some company, some economic production that might bring improvement to the citizens of Serbia. It is known that from day to day more unemployed and more and more of those you pay for per year of internship, about 100 euros, somewhere less, depending on the process of production and on the work they do and thus create social cases throughout the country of Serbia. It is true that you have succeeded with some of your legal projects to fight Serbian citizens, especially the Law on Local Self-Government, where almost every municipality has several elections on several occasions; whether the president of the municipality is conflicted with the assembly majority or the assembly majority with the president of the municipality is now a question. Generally, citizens are fighting across Serbia, and you continue to rule and observe all that is happening. If you have managed to sell everything that was profitable and profitable in this society, in our country, economy and production, not only you but also the previous DOS, you have managed to sell brewers, sugars, cementers, oilers, you have sold everything that could be sold, even now you sell the springs of our waters and our mining wealth, then this law is a confirmation of all that we no longer have domestic production, no competition, so that we can establish some free zones where we will have equal participation by foreigners and our rich and tycoons, to once again have a monopoly, and in fact directly affect our domestic production and asphyxiation of our domestic products. We've had those zones before, we've had duty-free zones, we've had borderline duty-free zones, we've created some camps, and so on. That didn't do us much good. This legislative project, in its explanation, says that this law will improve our economic production, that there will be some production in these free zones, that there will be a duty-free zone, that VAT will not be paid and so on. At the beginning of this legislative project, it is said that the free zone is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia where actions are carried out under the conditions laid down in this law, and then point 2): the founder of the zone is the authority of local self-government, a company, a business company, that is, an entrepreneur who has made a decision or concluded a contract with another founder on the establishment of the zone, who, through a commercial zone management company, submits a request for consent to determine the area. Let's just move on to heading 2 where the area is being commented, so it's said that the area of the zone is determined by giving consent to the government, and then, in the following text, by setting up some kind of free zone administration at the Ministry of Finance. This means that Mladjan Dinkic simply wants to put everything under his paw and wants to fiscalise everything. You now had a new bill where Mladjan Dinkic and his Ministry of Finance even want to fiscalise political and civil associations. Such a law will be found almost on the agenda. Furthermore, a particular problem in this legislative project is said in this law that local self-government will expropriate private land to establish free zones. Well, you know what kind of expropriation that's gonna be, based on what. This is once again the creation of a certain monopoly at the level of local self-government, all the way to the Serbian government; and not to mention that all of this is connected, local self-government gives a certain place for a free zone, and then consent should be given by the Serbian government, the finance ministry, and that means they will be privileged, to have a monopoly of those municipalities in which the government, for example. G17 plus. We Serbian radicals are waiting for these elections and we believe it will happen soon. It is likely that the government will be composed of Serbian radicals, where such things will immediately be abolished because a monopoly is created and a link between the government at the level of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. So, those local self-government governments that are ruled by the same-minded government will be privileged. It's pure abuse by the government and the finance ministry. Then, it is said here that economic production and traffic of goods will be accelerated, as so far the law predicted that 51% must have this domestic company that controlled the free zone, and now they are equal, both domestic and foreign companies. What does that mean? This means that foreigners with their goods, first of all technically, will spill our territories, there will be abuse, and that means that we simply choke our production, especially in the field of technology. In the end, regardless of what the finance minister says all our amendments are rejected, we know in advance, and we knew about it because our amendments would fix this law in such a way that there could not be privileged and monopolist companies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and local self-government. With this pay phone, I call on the MPs to think about our amendments and to adopt our amendments during the vote, so that we can fix this law as much as possible, that it is really applicable in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27851	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27852	The party is mentioned, but the real reason is what we may not have quite understood, the very principle of functioning, so avoiding any monopolies, and that's what we were talking about. I think you can see all of this from the bill, we got little criticism at the end in one part of this debate, even before the debate, when it comes to some action, why the Ministry was strict on some zones and why there is now great rigorousness towards those areas that did not fulfill their mission, which is production and export. So, in order to be fully consistent in their own position, this law intends to tighten the criteria, but in terms of increasing responsibility and creating this legal framework, obligation and discipline, when it comes to forming a zone, managing areas, but also working in areas, these three segments; because, zones will be created, that is to say, controlled through this law and through the formation of administration and simply through the way the Ministry of Finance works when it comes to this area. Otherwise, we have in Article 14 where it is said that there is indeed one procedure in the matter of the control of work and the granting of consent to the functioning of the zone, where it is said that the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work of the zone is determined by the minister responsible for the financial affairs, on a proposal (he only formally gives consent) of the commission which is educated by the representatives of the authorities. The Commission will enter (in the context of circumstances, I have participated in the creation of this law) just as experts in the field of finance, economy, economic relations with abroad, as well as local self-government, because it is very important, and this is mentioned earlier in an inadequate context, to which extent local self-government will understand the need to form free zones and to which the extent of free zones in undeveloped areas can contribute to the increased development of the economy. Of course, we expect on the other hand, because that is how the law provides, that local self-governments who want to form free zones in their territories to develop the economy and economy in them give appropriate benefits and benefits to the founders of the zone and that they respond in the right way by giving benefits; understanding to the extent that a specific formation of a local self-government zone is necessary is in some way legitimateized as interested. Then I really don't mind, and it has nothing to do with it, believe me, it doesn't matter who's in which municipality, but which municipality realizes that it needs to free the zone of certain attachments. With the circumstances, I repeat once again, and Mr Dinkic just said that, the pyrotical municipality realized this years ago and gave huge advantages to the zone and to all those who work and form businesses, from the release of appropriate taxis during work, building in the zone, to giving, or land concessions to use. I wouldn't mind if they were such municipalities, anyone in power in them, if they were to encourage the development of free zones and give them the privilege of forming a zone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27853	Replica, MP of the people Natasa Jovanovic, and then the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27854	We Serbian radicals of the so-called Greenfield projects, where the stakes of capital by foreign investors are allowed from the first dollar to the last dollar or euros, as you will, are not at all disputed and the only such project is made in the municipality of Zemun. So, absolutely, under Mrs Pop-Lazic's leadership, the municipality met with foreign investors, and the project is worth about 50m euros. The same plan is to build a thermal power plant in Novi Sad. I, more than once as an opposition (and tomorrow I will probably have a chance to do so, because tomorrow the budget rebalancing, which is not a developmental but a consumer in Kragujevac, is also a warning to the city's Kragujevac government, because we have a part of the country according to Batocina shares, on this part of the alleged highway, which can be used as an industrial zone and there can be a customs checkpoint in the future, i.e. the administration of customs for the town of Kragujevac, also a free zone. It's just a metro hypermarket. We have a difference in your proposal, and you say that you participated in writing the law, and what Dinkic was saying, which the SRS believes in the free zone the height of foreign capital should not exceed 49%, purely for clarifications, but also so that they could serve for production, only that so far it has never been the case. Here, Lap's an ideal example. So, on the main section, on the highway and with the possibility of building factories, production plants, tracking facilities, infrastructures, only two gas stations were built on one side and the other, because the municipal owners of potential investors, and there were many who were coming, looking for a commission or setting up some abnormal conditions; they did not get any relief and therefore they were not ready to invest under that previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27855	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote for this law, not because we are against free zones, but there are several reasons why we will vote against it. The first is: when the law is written, without wanting to offend anyone, the law is technically poorly done. So there's a lot of technical disadvantages, a lot of things unsaid in the law itself. Here, a few minutes ago it was mentioned, in Article 14(1), it says: "The fulfillment of the conditions for the start of the work zone is determined by the minister in charge of finance affairs, on a proposal from the commission educated by the representatives of the authorities. "I think it must be regulated legally, which are representatives of the competent authorities, and it is not only that the minister gives formal consent, but it gives consent to the commission's proposal that he educates. So, the minister educates the commission and gives consent to its proposal. There's no need for such a commission, because he'll do it without it. So the executive authority is in charge here. We can take a look at it when it comes to free zone management. So, the Free Zones Administration is educated, as a management body within the Ministry of Finance Affairs, for the performance of state administrations in the area of free zones. The Director-General for Free Zones. Who now appoints directors and whose proposal? Is it going to be another committee being educated by the authorities, or will it simply be the minister in charge of the financial affairs decreed by the Director, or will the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, do so, who will appoint the Director? These are things of a technical nature, but extremely important in this area, because the experience we have with you since you've been in power is that you can only rule as it is in the citizens' interest only if you are legally prevented and if the laws are not unarranged and cannot be widely interpreted. Article 17 states: "The slave that is imported and exported from the zone, as well as goods located in the zone, has the treatment of customs goods. The exportation, i.e. the introduction of goods referred to in Article 1 shall be notified by the user to the competent customs office. The user can temporarily export goods from the zone to another part of Serbia's territory, i.e. to enter goods into the zone from another part of Serbia's territory in order to put them in an active, passive processing process. "This means probably some technological procedure. "A user can temporarily take goods out of the zone to another part of Serbia's territory and enter goods into the zone from another part of Serbia's territory to examine, assist, process and marketing presentation. "Now excuse me, gentlemen, this is still too broad an interpretation, especially in this last position, because the goods being questioned, atheist and marketing presentation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia are leaving definitely a free zone. Is there any special law that regulates how much goods it can be? For example, the Value Added Tax Act says – the finance minister will bring a regulation that will allow how much goods can be used for advertising purposes, the purpose of giving, representations, etc. Is that around here? There isn't. Do they write deadlines that require the goods to return to the free zone or from a free zone to return to the territory of the Republic? No, I don't. We now have a law in the procedure of foreign exchange operations that says – if within 180 days for goods exported from the territory of the Republic does not bring foreign currency into the country they will be punished even by prison sentences, or if they paid in advance, and did not import within 180 days will be fined, etc. It's not there. Who can guarantee us that it will return to where it came from and gained a certain advantage? Nowhere. How's our experience with you? Here's what, let's get back to that affair about the damage that was done to the Elektroprivreds and the NIS. It's about a mule bought from NIS for export purposes. He was exempt from all taxes, all taxes, waited three or four months in a customs warehouse and did not leave the territory of the Republic. He just changed the declaration, became an import mule, and was charged at two or three times the price that was obtained, and even customs was charged, which was never really accounted for and shown to customs authorities. That's what it looks like when you abuse someone's rights. Where are the actors of this affair? On the loose. Who's to blame? Power. Who's following this law? That same power. Therefore, in the case of laws like this, where abuses are possible, laws must not be technically imperfect and unspeakable. Or, you're saying the Customs Administration is in charge of one part of the control of this law, so all the goods that come in and out are handed over to the Customs Administration. Why is there still allegedly a monopoly of the Republic of Serbia, or NIS, on the processing of oil and oil derivatives? The reason for such a regulation was that the state at that time still had a criminalized, corrupt customs in its control, and for these reasons it introduced one such regulation. It's the same customs, it hasn't changed significantly. What about certain companies that, under the pretext of importing second-hand and invalid goods, imported and placed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia as goods of general consumption, and no one has ever determined by any single procedure that they were used goods and technically invalid? Even those who have prevented such control from being done day and day are at appropriate high functions in the customs administration. Why doesn't the customs authority in such a case act on official duty, then write a criminal report, but pass it on to the MUP, and there it goes in the drawer somewhere and stays? That's what it looks like when you enforce the law. That's why the SRS doesn't trust you to have one of these technical unspeakable laws, which can be widely interpreted, to carry out in accordance with those intentions that you've declared here in this explanation. It seems to me that the intentions and interests will be the same as the interests of those who have manipulated both electricity and oil and oil derivatives, and the import of oil derivatives and the sale of these goods, allegedly used or technically invalid. That's why the SRS won't vote for your law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-13-0.u27857	Since there are no voter groups registered, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) Given that we have exhausted this item of the agenda, I thank you for your work today. I'm closing a search on this agenda point, we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00, see you, have a nice evening.
