ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28001	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. She reported being prevented from attending this session, Kostic Blagica. Dear People’s MPs, before continuing a single search of the 19th agenda, it is necessary that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 207(4). The Rules of Procedure shall establish the resignation of a member of the Government. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the Government, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. On the basis of Article 23(2), The Government Act and Article 207(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly takes note and realises that Ivana Dulic-Markovic resigned as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and that the minister's mandate ended. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – THE SCHOOL OF THE COURT FUNCTIONS One notice before that, the Finance Committee is at 10:15 a.m. on the ground floor. I will remind you, although the principle search has been formally opened, you have taken the following decisions for this item of the agenda: the motion for a decision on the election of judges, number 119-926/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; the proposal for a decision on the choice of a public prosecutor, number 119-927/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; the proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy prosecutors, number 119-927/06, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Since it is in accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have opened a single search on the motions for decisions, asking whether representatives of the motion, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the chairman of the High Council of Justice in the narrow court for judges, and Slobodan Jankovic, a republican public prosecutor. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Verica Radeta, the authorised representative of the SRS. Just one notice, before you start, we'll be working today until the debate is over on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have proposals on the agenda of the High Council of Justice, I believe, within the framework of that strategy on judicial reform in Serbia. Of course, what we have here in our proposals does not promise that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all the High Council of Justice, has no intention of really doing something good in this area. I fully awarely said "and the Government of the Republic of Serbia", because we have again the government's participation, or ministers, from these proposals that we are talking about today, to comments on various judgments, to the condition of this or that of survival in the government or the support of the government, if the verdict is like this or that in someone's interest. I heard Mrs. Skero in Valjevo on Thursday and she said something like this, but now I have some other questions. She was right in the part where she said politicians were trying in one way or another, directly or indirectly to influence the authorities of the judiciary, but I want to remind Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero that she knows whose support she had, here publicly spoken and written, in the sense that we will protect her and the Supreme Court and all the authorities of the judiciary against politicians, but neither Mrs. Shkero nor this special prosecutor, and many others do not intend to protect themselves from politics. Then on one show on TV B92, where Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero was visiting, we saw Mrs Škero's political statement, and it was on the question of journalists whether there was a basis for prohibiting the work of one party, Mrs Shkero said: there are no grounds under the law, but these two proposals we had showed continuity in the way the party functioned. What was 10 years ago and something that might not be so spectacular right now, but obvious continuity shows where we are and what we are. Mrs. Vido Petrovic-Skero, you're going to have to tell us where we are, what we are, what your political option is and how you, as the President of the Supreme Court, can make these views public. The following question of journalists: what is your greatest impression, Madam President of the Supreme Court, says: I would define myself for number two, for that historic retrospective, because I think that, as I said, is continuity, that's something that attracted me, reminded me, and showed that it's not very different today and that it exists long ago. For your information, the SRS has been there for 16 years, of course, in continuity, and we have never given up any of our words, any of our moves, we have never changed our political programme, and we can comment on that with fellow MPs, but the President of the Supreme Court is willing to allow himself such statements, publicly, Mrs Vido Petrovic-Škero, as it is unacceptable for a special prosecutor for war crimes to present lies and lies in one newspaper. First of all, he commented, this is what I'm talking to you about right now, unfair verdicts, first degree convictions, and we lawyers probably know that it's not possible and that it's not to be done, and especially not to be lied. This Vukcevic, who is likely to mind that we Serbian radicals are calling him because of his negligent statements about how he will arrest the scribe pigeons, until the bee hives are searched, to please the lady who is otherwise his mentor and who regularly goes for her own opinion. On the question of journalists: a number of insults have been sent to the court at the expense of the radicals, whether you have ever spoken to Tom Nikolic or Aleksandr Vukcevic, says Vukcevic – we have never met, there is no need to talk to such people. Politicians courageously hidden behind parliamentary immunity have the privilege of criticising someone's work, and if you can't answer them, I don't want to look back on the insults of the Serbian member, says a special prosecutor (he has another Serbia, has two Serbs), which is unfortunately why there are institutions like ours. They make classical political calculations and play on the emotions of people who have been killed in accidents in the former Yugoslavia. These people are mostly their electoral body. My position is a condemnation of hate speech, because I see Serbia in Europe, not in the Middle Ages. What kind of speech is this, ladies and gentlemen, when someone who has received the status of a specialist for three times the salary of his colleagues who are 33 times more professional and fairer than he is, gives such statements and when he says that members of the SRS, or those of Serbia, as he says, are unfortunately for them and there are institutions like the Special Court. Then he utters a great lie, a lie that in a normal state for no second, let alone one day, could not perform such a significant function. A journalist asks him: are the SRS members charged with Ovcara and Zvornik? He says -- you have indictments and convictions for Ovcara, it clearly states that the defendants were in the composition of the paramilitary formations of "left subpoderica", and for Zvornik in "Yellow Eight" which were close to the SRS. Most of the defendants were members of the SRS, and I think that's one of the reasons I'm the target of frequent attacks by that political party. If a special prosecutor can comment on one procedure that has not yet reached the verdict and another procedure where we have a first degree verdict, and in doing so lies, then indeed we policy-makers must mention such a prosecutor, to say that he must not present such lies, and the lie is that members of the SRS are convicted in the first degree of judgment for Ovcara. It's a lie that there's still any verdict for Zvornik, because it doesn't exist, there's a first-degree verdict for Ovcar, there's 14 people convicted and none of them are members of the SRS and none of the convicts went to war as a volunteer of the SRS. One member of the SRS who was indicted was released. Another who is not a member of the SRS, but who went as a volunteer of the SRS was released and then your judge Vesko Krstajic, President of the Council, when he explained the verdict in that oral part, although it was not so decadently written in the verdict, said he was very sorry that he could not determine the guilt of these two and that there was no evidence that they were involved in the war crimes. So that's what special prosecutors are to you, that's how the Special Court of Justice is to you, and it's no wonder, given what I read at first as well as the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. As regards these proposals today, I will, unusually, say in another way, that so far we have not spoken, since you are powerful, since you reform the judiciary – choose all of the ones you have proposed today. What you're proposing for a Kruševac, of course I'm not going to argue with anyone, just pick out gentlemen, you'll be drawn to the head by what you're doing very quickly, but I must tell you, in the territory of the Community Court in Kruševec, you choose representatives of only one political party. And now you talk as much as you want it to be wrong or you don't have that kind of information. We are telling you that it is true, as is true, that you are proposing in the Cup as a public prosecutor, Mr. Slobodan Jankovic, on behalf of the High Council of Justice – Nebojsa Budic, whose biography stands – the head of the National Office of the President of the Municipality of Prokuplje. Is there somewhere in Serbia the head of the national office without being a DS official? I remind you that the National Office was made by the President of the Republic, namely the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, because it is the DS Bureau, that its largest tycoon, Dragan Djilas, is at the head of the National Office and that they function by opening their national offices throughout Serbia and, of course, spending their national money, the money they receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and normally setting up their officials, their prominent members for the heads of the national offices. You are now proposing to us that Nebojsa Budic be the public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, head of the National Office. This is truly amazing, and we did not expect you to break all possible principles and principles so openly because this is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have quite a number of suggestions where you propose to select judges of very young people. Of course, we don't have anything against young judges, it's nice, but is it really good that someone who passed a judicial exam in the middle of 2006 was a judge, and in court only did a traineeship, and the rest of the time was a lawyer. Let those who will vote on your proposals think about it. We have, in fact, I want to introduce you to a number of letters that the citizens sent to the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the High Council of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, and say that no response and no echo have such correspondence. No one cares what problems in the judiciary citizens have. The minister's got there the other day when he's answering his phone, and then he tells anyone who's putting up their own problem that he's upset about how it's possible that that court is working so badly there, but now he's gonna do everything he can to fix it, and then let that court know that he's had some kind of complaint and there's the Minister's intervention. Of course, I know perfectly well that the minister can't intervene in terms of making such or such a verdict, but when it comes to the staff member of the High Council of Justice, he can't say, now it's of course the problem of the law that you've made to have someone in the executive power to be a member of the High Council of Justice and thus create a policy of the judiciary, but these are your views and views on the relationship between the executive and the judicial branch of power. We have here a copy of a letter from Novi Pazar from Judge Vukanovic Biljana, who received a decision on the termination of the employment relationship on June 1st 1999 as judge of the Municipal Court in Peća. The rule of termination of employment has been abolished as illegal. I don't read, of course, everything, but just what's characteristic. The judicial verdict of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, the ruling of the District Court and the Supreme Court in Belgrade, to date, has made more decisions on a resolution out of force, as it has been found that the basis for resolution is illegal, as it was found in the case. Finally, it is said: given the above, I ask you to take all necessary actions, launch an initiative to put the decision on my resolution, i.e. the termination of the judge's office out of force, as well as in other judges' cases. So, I'm just introducing you to this, and I guess we'll have some answers here. We have a letter from the electrician, referring to the Trade Court, not to read, I've read this before, parts of this letter, i.e. I've been getting to know the public about them. Employers at Elektrotechni ask what consequences will be on them, given that Goran Kljajevic, who otherwise destroyed Elektrotechn, has been arrested. Why is he stalling to resolve their status and their situation? Since you have all these memos, I assume they have all the parliamentary groups, because we have not received these letters from members of the SRS, we see that they have also written to all MP groups, so also to the Supreme Court, and to the Minister, and to the High Council of Justice. We also have a letter sent to the High Council of Justice. It's about the number of vacancys in Priboj. I suppose you have that, Mrs. Shkero, they explain here how impossible it is to work under the circumstances in which they work, where there are only three judges, here is complete documentation, complete information about how many objects they have, etc., but you seem to be not interested in such things, of course. In the Committee on Justice we received a letter, I do not know if the Committee discussed it – in addition to the letter we are submitting a complaint to you on the work of the judges of the Municipal Court in Brus and Kruševec. Among other things, it is required to carry out a detailed check on the conduct of Deputy Prosecutor Jasminka Kiurski of the Republic. It refers to some alleged relationship with the City Institute of Art in a case where, I don't know, her son-in-law Milan Nikolic, otherwise assistant director of the City Arts Office in Belgrade, avoids criminal responsibility for organising criminal activities at the City Institute of Art, related to the assessment of ships in the bankruptcy procedure of the "Bagero-Broeding Company", which is very interesting. "Bage-ship" is, remember, Janjusevic's company. It is further said that the MUP's action has been discovered and prevented, and a criminal case has been initiated against the experts and orderers of the second assessment of ships, but not against the organisers of these criminal activities at the Institute. So, insinuations are on this prosecutor, Jasmine Kiurski. Is that true? I don't know, but I'd like you to say that, since I assume you know that. And then today, we have a proposal that Aleksandar Petrovic of Svilinca be elected Deputy Public Prosecutor for the District Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina. That is your proposal, and Minister Zoran Stojkovic, here, writes himself, received a letter informing him of some details of the work of this prosecutor, Aleksandr Petrovic. Some criminal case number KA 35/02 is mentioned, so I don't know the availability of funds received by the prosecution, how in a magical way he spent some money, and some criminal charges which he filed selectively, so criminal charges against Bice, so going away and not going to trial, etc. But the last passage of this letter, I see I've spent this time, but I'll read, "Republic Prosecutor's Office has formed a commission and there's a record of the same that has done more negativity than indicated. A decision was made to suspend and move away from work. Gilas from the DS comes to Svilianac and promises to get him out of the Sviliant, but he will stay in the D.A.'s office. The Republic District Attorney gives the Justice Council an extremely good opinion, although it has in its hands the record of its negativity. The High Judicial Council is passing through and now needs to go to the judicial committee." So, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the judicial reform is being carried out by Gilas, over there by the National Office, here his direct interference. Do what you think you should do, we Serbian radicals will not take part in the vote at all, when you choose these your own staff, and I expect Mrs. Petrovic Škero, as well as Mr. Prosecutor to tell us and to explain his political views, or political views of his closest associates, and to see what you think of this Vukcevic, who makes such lies and who, as a special prosecutor, comment on the actions that are under way and unjust judgments.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28003	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28004	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, Mrs Škero, Mr Jankovicu, today on the agenda of the National Assembly, as well as several times before this calls to parliament, we have a point – the choice of holders of judicial functions. Whenever this point is on the agenda, I think there is a need to give an assessment of the situation in Serbia's judiciary because, above all, it needs to be done, and I think that this place, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has become the only place where critical tones related to the state of justice can be heard objectively. I'm not saying that others don't have them, but it's wrapped in cellophane, in formulas that are more general than individual, where almost nothing is fundamentally known, where it avoids saying any bad word about the situation in the judiciary, where it runs away from certain individual things. Basically, there is no courage to qualify the situation in the judiciary. Unfortunately, there is a tendency to remain silent and to make buying time a better situation in the judiciary. Better, in which way, it really is not clear to me, because when you listen to the representatives of the judiciary they agree in two things: that a better situation in the judiciary can be ensured if the judiciary provides conditions for its work, and that means proper space and better personal income and if it is independent. Independently and independently of anyone, even yourself, because that independence is a very interesting category. These last few years, by so-called. democratic changes, and essentially since October 5th, there is almost no one, if there are any, are on the fingers of one hand, judge or prosecutor who has been warned of his dissatisfaction or of poor work or who has been removed. We on the Committee, while there was a congregation majority, discussed the subject and repeatedly found that the criteria were extremely relative, and that there was no willingness within the judiciary to look into each other's eyes and say: a colleague or a colleague, you did not work in the right way and therefore suffer both states and parties, we are essentially suffering. I think that this manner of conduct was unfortunately founded after October 5th, in particular in 2001, when the executive power absolutely became a judge of justice, the finale of the act took place in 2003 at a time of emergency when it was changed, without public presence, the law on how to elect prosecutors, and when the government was given the opportunity to elect deputy prosecutors and thus chose the then party-like people to do in practice what the executive government is up to. Prior to that, the start of the process was human change in the judiciary. I have often mentioned the information I will mention this time, that according to official data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, by mid-2002, 150 court presidents were changed. So in 2001 and mid-2002, 150 presidents of courts. You can imagine what that really means for a state of justice. Not to mention the changes in judges who had been changed just to avoid being, unfortunately, in the vast majority, and that the only criterion of the quality of similarity was the DOS Staff Committee, whether consent to the selection of these people was reached within that personnel commission. About the value, the quality of work, how much he worked in the judiciary, the degree of resolution of judgments, etc., it remained in the second plan. We had a situation, and we pointed to it in 2001 and 2002, that it is not normal for people who are not in the judiciary to be elected judges and presidents on the same day, so we are told that they should. Later in a report by the Supreme Court of Serbia's supervisory body, I read that the president of the body also felt that the practice was devastating for the situation in the judiciary, but essentially, the moment the executive authority established full control over the judiciary, things went wrong. At the beginning were human change, part of the story was the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic from prison and without the reaction of the investigative judge, without the reaction of the District Court president, without the Supreme Court's response, everyone was silent, bowed down their heads, and they acknowledged that the executive power had power over the judiciary. They're throwing away everything that some of them were trying to do, to get up or put the spine in a vertical position, it wasn't worth it, because first they kept their mouth shut, and they gave a sign that that's how it can be done. A few days ago, a daily newspaper published data on the 10 most significant affairs with a finding – only one reached the complaint. I don't think that article, I don't want to mention the paper so you don't advertise it, it's saying enough how it's done. Unfortunately, it is more important in whose hands the case will come, than whether what it says in the case is true and whether the guilty are to be punished. I'm going to mention these 10 affairs, but before that, since they haven't been mentioned, I can't help but overstep three topics that are also current, it seems to me to me for Serbia, and I should also be told about the judiciary and which have not been solved yet, and when, as in that drama show about Dzekna, you don't know. The other day, the interior minister mentioned that in 2003, the interior minister, the ministry, essentially and the government, contracted with some 98m-euro firms. A job concluded in 2003, whose realisation is now expected after the adoption of the Law on ID cards. In 2003, it was concluded, and in 2006 business should begin to take place. In the meantime, they probably did part of the job, probably the money was transferred to no one. It is interesting whether and how it is possible to conclude such a contract based on the expected adoption of the ID law, and we are talking about 98m euros. Of course, no one remembered to ask if it was in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Law and whether it was an abuse of official office. Another example worth mentioning, we must not forget it, is an example of stealing votes here in Serbia's parliament, a vote from Bodrum, remember. The presidential candidate then and later, the president of Serbia and the president of the DS, repeatedly said he would find out who was responsible and responsible for the affair. Here, today in 2006, we are further and further away from it, or those most responsible are not mentioned, but that is why some others will pay with their heads, politically securely, and otherwise I do not believe, because there will be a way to bury this affair. I wonder what has been done with those people who have introduced a state of emergency in Serbia against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been decidently saying that the state of emergency can only be introduced in the part of the territory and it seems to me that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has assessed that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President of the National Assembly, has been unconstitutional. To this day, everyone's quiet. It seems that the situation in the judiciary is such that everything depends on the function that a person performs and on the one whose hands the material comes into, or, unfortunately, which is political belongings, because it has become a very important argument for a relationship with a given case. In particular, when you enter certain objects, you can see it. The daily paper has published 10 affairs, I'll count them for you, and I'll tell you which one came to the complaint. But it's interesting to see which ones are not, and when people are read about these affairs, then things become absolutely clearer. Affairs "Belgrade Airport", "Energoproject", GSP "Belgrade", "Janjusevic-Kolesar", bankruptcy mafia, adviser to the economy minister, the "Mobtel" case, the road mafia and "coffer". Only the suitcase got to the complaint. It is interesting that Belgrade Airport, where some former ministers are also executives, where the state has been damaged in the amount of 220m dinars so far, the matter is standing and there is no indication that something more significant is going to happen. The Energy Project mentions that the social community has been damaged by 25.3 million dinars. Around the GSP "Belgrade" mentions a sum of 200 million dinars. There's a lot of things, but I don't want to read everything today. About "Janjušević-Kolesar", about buying cements in Popovac, things are absolutely standing, why – that God knows, but such silence gives us the basis for the conclusion that things are political. The bankruptcy mafia - a sum of 22m euros is mentioned, however, it is new and it is not realistic to expect everything to be available to the public these days. Unfortunately, some media are more familiar than we are with MPs, or at least they're trying to get to know the public in detail, what's going on there, because it doesn't make sense that during the process, the media is publishing the content of individuals' statements. It doesn't make sense to publish the content of convictions, criminal charges in the media. Apparently, the media is in charge. When that media pressure starts, it's really not easy for the people of the judiciary, for those who do their job properly and honestly, to endure it. The "Mobtel" case -- a sum of 1300,000 dinars and a "drum mafia" of 15,000,000 euros is mentioned. I'm saying, only the affair "coffer" has come to the complaint, since it is definitely seen and because of the way the media reported, because man now has to look at things a little wider than this content itself, he has this political dimension, so it was, undeniably, one of the main reasons why this was solved. And the question is, what's going on with these other things, is there really no way for the judiciary to end these proceedings, is it really possible to process these things to run out, is it really possible that this will never see the light of day, and that, like many other things, it will cover them up and forget them, while some of them, in silence of their room or on any of the exotic islands around the world, are being crushed by Euros and dollars that have been illegally acquired. If there's a big word on my part, believe me, first of all, it's an expression of dissatisfaction that I see time passing, and things don't change. We're making changes, but there's no major improvement. Some things are absolutely standing, and you don't know when they'll be solved. I mentioned, and I'll talk in the second part about one of the frat cases of privatisation, i.e. Robbery in Serbia. Serbia's biggest robbery took place during privatisation, and the judiciary remains silent. It's interesting that the judiciary, whenever they want to, then it solves things quite explicitly. You'll see that after the same day, he made some solutions. I'm going to mention to you today a case where it reacts on the same day, in order to make the process as interesting to the public as possible. On the other hand, when he won't, then he won't, then he's got a little million procedural reasons to get things out of the way. Let me remind you what kind of robbery this is. A thousand of Serbia's best companies, what was worth, were sold for two billion euros. In the 1990s, 49% of Telecom was sold for about 800m euros and a thousand of the best companies for two billion euros. As it happens, it's probably the only thing these banks abroad know about, that's what they've been transferring to their fees. Our courts are quiet there. The honor of exceptions, but there are few of those disputed privatisation processes that have been brought to an end. Everyone is quiet, in fact waiting for political changes and waiting for some sign to call from the top, so that things change, and silence gives them the right to do so and, unfortunately, to work in Serbia. It's one of the basic features of the situation in the judiciary. At one of the last sessions, I was talking about the case of the company "Bačka" from Tkonoplje, where the man legally privatized it, has all the necessary documents, is listed in all the state-owned enterprises in charge of the procedure. I presented it here a year ago, because a man has appeared several times in our MP group, and it is logical that each of us MPs should get to know the public about individual cases and publicly pronounce what is being delivered to him here. I mentioned several times and publicly read allegations about local authorities' involvement in the state of the company "Bačka" from Tkonoplje and how local structures, at DOS time, made a decision to introduce bankruptcy, that they had decided who should be a bankruptcy manager, as they suggested that this and that, then from this Chanko party, it seems to me, the president of the bankruptcy council, that the local structures have said who is like and who is not. A very detailed analysis has been made, believe it or not, of the situation in Sombor, both in the judiciary and in the prosecution, that they went by names and said – this one is similar, this one is not; this one worked in the 1990s, this one is not; this one inclinates the Socialists or the radicals, this one is an excellent Democrats, he needs to be extended. Otherwise, that document stands with me in the MP's office. I heard the owner of the company from Tkonoplje delivered all that documentation to a special prosecutor. Believe it or not, they analyzed every man in court and the Prosecution in Somboro. He literally, born here and there, ended it and that; good, not good; proved himself, not proved himself; whether he belonged to any stranger or inclinated. In this regard, they concluded who could move forward, who could not, who should be prevented, who should be expelled from the judiciary and not allowed to continue. You know that. It is interesting that, last time I mentioned the company's case, a telegram arrived from both the municipality and the Independence Union, with many offensive words, probably with the expectation that I, as a MP, would not speak further. I don't think there's any reason for that. About this company, I have to mention one thing that is in itself very indicative. I will read, this was delivered to our parliamentary group by the authority of the company "Bačka" in Tkonoplja, lawyer Mr Grujic Milos. "After a judicial decision to suspend the bankruptcy of the Sombor Commercial Court, the company "Bačka" sought judicial protection from the Sombor Municipal Court, etc. "and according to that decision, there was a judicial execution, where the keys were handed over to the managing authorities, but when the stakeholders from the local self-government and the actions of the judges were faced that the court decision had to be implemented and that it had to be respected, and that the managing authorities would unnecessarily take possession, in an almost unrecognizable manner in our case-law, on the day of execution, on 4 May 2006, they called on a larger district court and on the same day decided to suspend enforcement, and delivered to the executive judge such a decision, which, on the same day, delivered, at a distance of 10 kilometers in Sombor, at 2.30 p.m., to the pronouncesssssssssstance of the company, which was initiated and presented the unprecedented precedent in court practice". I must tell you that the owner of this company, Mr Momčilović, has delivered a series of documents to both the municipal and district prosecutors. It's an interesting letter that the district attorney refers to and informs him of the state of the company. Just one sentence: "With a consultation with the district attorney in Somboro, nothing has been done about insight." So there's absolutely a coordination of what can, what can't, what has to be done and what doesn't have to be done. I think they delivered this file to the republican prosecutor because they have the only hope of a republican and special prosecutor. People appreciate that if something is done in a legitimate way, it should be taken care of. Otherwise, I end up here, Mr. Chairman, what is the significance of this issue, is enough to say that this company has 2,000 acres of the most fertile country - orchards, machinery. It's all brought into economic collapse, because, basically, for three years, the company owner can't get in there, and in the meantime, some production is being restored, because a huge part of this 2,000-hectare combination doesn't work. Money is created and money disappears. It tried to introduce a fake bankruptcy, and it didn't work. I took this example just to show you how the judiciary, when it will, can prevent everything from being executed on the same day, that there can be coordination and that nothing is done, that the district attorney is coldly writing that, with the consultation, it is agreed not to do anything, and trust me, when I report next time and mention one of the most dramatic cases of privatisation and robbery of Serbia, you will see what all the courts have done, or have not done to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28005	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS, DSS and SPS parliamentary groups. The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Shkero, the Republic Prosecutor, the education of the High Council of Justice, was thought to improve the choice of judicial officials, that we would now have better, better quality proposals, simply that one new system in this area would come up with the best solutions or at least better solutions than the solutions that were around 2002 or I don't know exactly when this law was passed. Today, a few years later, it is clear that the High Council of Justice has not met its expectations. On the contrary, I believe that the proposals coming from the Justice Committee until 2002 and 2003 were better, better. It is true that the political parties were crucial, it is true that the political parties that were in power were responsible, they proposed. Those solutions were especially better at the time of the SPS when we were held accountable, as the Democrats now say popularly. Afterwards it was much worse when we had 15, 16, 18 parties, when everyone represented some of their interests, their proposals, but also these solutions proposed by the High Council of Justice are far from being quality and good. On the other hand, I find choosing high-quality judges, prosecutors, easy work. It's not hard work considering the criteria that are very clear in this area. These criteria are, above all, related to the number of confirmed verdicts, the urgency, the norm, the number of acquittals when it comes to prosecutors. However, the proposals coming from the High Council of Justice, at least a good part of the proposal is quite inadequate given these very clear criteria. Hence, and some of our disappointment in the SPS that now, by establishing the High Council of Justice, given that in this body, the authority, there are people who are professional and professional, judges of the Supreme Court, prosecutors, presidents of the courts, there are so many of these failures. Of course, some of our disappointments are about the President of the Supreme Court – Vidu Petrovic-Škero. In 2002, we know that it was resolved at the time of the SPS and when I listened to it that year, so after the five-octobaric coup, I thought we made a big mistake, even though I wasn't involved in it. She seemed very convincing, independent of all the political factors, but it seems to have lasted quite briefly. Very quickly, immediately after the election of Mrs. Shkero as Supreme Court President, we had her visit at various gatherings of various NGOs, these NGOs that are absolutely in an anti-Serbian position and our disappointment doesn't stop today. I think the President of the Supreme Court very often appears on some political shows. Personally, I find that inadmissible for a man on that highest scale in this very important area. So in this set, we can look at all these suggestions that were made today. Personally, I think the proposals made for the prosecutors, for the deputy prosecutors, that it's a good suggestion that these people simply don't deserve trust, don't deserve to be in those responsible places. For example, when we talk about this proposal from Prokuplje, maybe this man doesn't have a bad biography, on the contrary, he's been in the judiciary for a number of years, he was born in 1948, and I think it's very important that the Minister, Mrs. Shkero and the prosecutor need to know that, in addition to these general criteria, it's about the up-to-date, the fulfilment of the standard, about the number of confirmed verdicts, the release of convictions when it comes to prosecutors, very important and the issue of work experience, the job experience. It's not the same when the presidents of the courts are appointed, prosecutors who are 35 and those who are 55 years old. I guess that's the experience, too, and that's what it means. I don't think that's what's being taken care of. Speaking of this candidate from Prokuplje, the mayoral prosecutor's candidate in Prokuplje, what is his biggest recommendation? I think the most difficult situation is that he's the head of the National Office. What's the People's Office? One mere distracting of the people, Gilas suffers because the people are poor, fivem euros in one year, the whole society around Tadic. Therefore, the society around Tadic is simply distracting Serbia, they are largely rich, naive when it comes to large political decisions, including their boss. I think it's a difficult situation for him to be head of the National Office. Where do these people's offices form? They form where the Democratic Party wants to strengthen its influence and we know that the entire functioning of the National Office is one empty story, but today in Serbia everything is possible. Whoever has the media, the media conveys lies, deceptions, and Serbia can always in some way cheat through it, through money and through the media. In particular, when we talk about the dispute, I would challenge this opportunity, even though I've never done it before, a candidate from Svilinca. That's the D.A.'s office right now. He was proposed Deputy District Attorney in Jagodina. I'm not going to get into how high-quality he is as a judge, or as a prosecutor, but just now, Radeta's colleague has read about his results and his effect, but here I think there's a deal that makes a man simply move to a more formal function and leave a function that is essentially much more significant. I think there are people in the maritime district themselves who work in the D.A.'s office, who are responsible, and if we're talking about the deputy district attorney being a higher office than the district attorney. There are people who are responsible and who should be on the job. Simply, these unprincipled arrangements, and I am deeply convinced that behind this is this unprincipled agreement that a man is moving from a place that is operationally and essentially more important than the deputy district attorney in Jagodina or any other city, I think such agreements and dealings are unacceptable. I would like to say here that we at the SPS highly appreciate Minister Stojkovic and personally consider Minister Stojkovic to be the best minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, there are major problems in the area of justice today in Serbia and certainly part of the responsibility for these major problems lies with Minister Stojkovic. Major reforms have been announced in Serbia, and of these major reforms there is almost nothing. We have new announcements when it comes to a strategy in this area, that there will be a major abolition of municipal courts. We know that these are the proposals of the people on the side again, from the Western European countries that are now telling us that municipal courts cannot be closer than 50km and by that logic we will have a situation in Serbia to abolish 50 or 100 courts. It's a common disaster. The SPS will not accept such a reform, and besides, we know, when it comes to reforms in Serbia, all these years, so no matter what area, these reforms are always some reduction of rights, a reduction, a restriction for the fastest layers of the population. When reforms were in the pension system, these reforms were about reducing pensions compared to salaries, in a more rigid manner of harmonisation, so they were reforms in health care, which meant reducing the positive list, reducing insurance rights. When it comes to reforming in any other area, everything was the same, so that these reforms in the field of justice don't do us any good, at least they don't bring good, about the mass of the population, because the most important reforms have to be positive, they're positive and they're good for five million people, and not just for 500,000 people, because today in Serbia all reforms are going that way. So, devastation, devastate five million, and give something a better position of 500,000 or a million people in Serbia. I think it's completely upside down and I think it's the time when it's all about that kind of behavior. I want to remind again, regardless of all these problems, because Minister Stojkovic is a good minister, he's a normal man, I think he thinks well of this country and I can't put him in the category of ministers like that. Zoran Stankovic, such as Vuk Draskovic, these self-proclaimed ministers, because we simply voted for Zoran Stankovic as well. The man was a patriot for a while, but what happened. Zoran Stankovic, when he was elected defence minister, we know that the consent was given by Carla Del Ponte, that she, via Milo Djukanovic, arranged to accept herself in Montenegro, followed by him to Washington, blackmailed him there, brainwashed him, did something to him. Anyway, we watch Stankovic every day, the man split himself in half. I think he's lost 30 pounds. We didn't vote for Vuk Draskovic, I didn't vote. They won't vote for Vuk Draskovic anymore, he's talking about Resolution 1244 these days and he says, we will remove Resolution, or the Americans are preparing a trap for us, and he says, he will remove Resolution 1244 from us. What's new about that? We have spoken in time that the resolution is the highest range, that it is the only straw of salvation for Kosovo and Metohija, but those ministers such as Stankovic and Vuk Draskovic differ greatly from Minister Stojkovic, and these criticisms addressed to Minister Stojkovic are well-intentioned. Just one last sentence to say, I'm sorry, I thought Stojkovic would be here, and here's the Prime Minister these days, saying yesterday that Serbia has been extremely politically conditioned all these years. We talked about it all 10 years ago, but nothing changed, and 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995, Milosevic was constantly politically conditioned and nothing changed. It's the same story in Cosmet, everything's the same from Kusner to Petersen, everything's the same from Busek to Ahtisaari, nothing changes. In any case, Serbia has a lot of problems and Serbia needs a clear strategy in all areas, so in the area of population renewal, in the part where we know where our territory is, how we will defend our territory if the moment comes, in the area of employment, and in the work of the judiciary. I think all this work in the judiciary is far from the need for the greatest part of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28007	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Vukic, once they have changed the order, let MP Vojkan Tomic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not here to specifically talk about individual solutions, I'm going to talk about the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I don't like to talk behind my back like she says, but I like to tell everyone directly to my face what I think about him and his work. In fact, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia has shown that he does not deserve to be in that place, it has shown that no moment should have been given the trust of the MPs and everyone we thought might be different, who we were confident of its independence, independence, that it does not belong politically to anyone and that it will not serve any political orders, and we have all been very wronged. What I could see the other day, I was literally shocked. So the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia appeared on a television show, otherwise a pretty rudely prepared show, unrelentingly prepared, and now I'm going to show you how and why. And there was the President of the Supreme Court as a key actor of political engagement, giving her private political views, and your private political views, Madam President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, are your private matter in the polling post. You have no right, and at least a commitment, and should not happen, Serbian Supreme Court President, to express your political antipathies to anyone or any political sympathy at any place. Namely, on the show "The Imprint of the Week" at Olje Bećković, making an ominous contribution to the SRS at such an all-out hack, and they made it common B92, RTS, Pink, Politics, etc., so they thought at some point they'd be able to do something against the SRS, they made a contribution to what Vojislav Seselj said to Barovic, what happened, and the part where Nikola Barovic said, "Vojo Seselj, let me tell you, your wife is a whore! "How did you not notice that, Madam President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, so that you might notice that it is continuity, because some here at the Natasa Jovanovic National Assembly, the half-writers said that satisfaction is sought elsewhere? How come you didn't notice the same one that was said here after we were fascists, patients, so you didn't notice the continuity, even with the closure, the illegal detention, the arrest and everything else that happened in the previous period. Who are you, Madam President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, to speak in any way, anything about the SRS? Who are you? Is that your job, where it says it, does it say in the Serbian Constitution? Your Holy Scripture is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws of this country. As you get involved in politics, where do you get the right, where do you get the nerve to do that? The National Assembly is the one facing both prosecutors and judges, in the extreme line, and before that comes the High Council of Justice. Who are you to talk about the policy in Serbia, whose continuity is and what is the continuity, based on which, on what legal standards do you do it, on what moral standards have you given yourself the right to do it? Is that why Sam Nazaro would be pleased? Is that why some others should be happy after that and pat you on the shoulder, and say, "Yes, it was great, it was so nice to be said." Mrs. Petrovic-Skero, that way he won't be able to do it in this country, so in a regulated country he won't be able to. Political opponents can do whatever they want, they can say the hardest possible things, that's their thing, and they can tell us what they're thinking, which is why they're going to lose their popularity in the electoral body, because they know who the most respected people in this country are. You don't have the right to do that. You can't do that. So you can't do it in any way and do it every day. Here we are being presented with a proposal, respected citizens of Serbia, so they say -- a proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors in the municipal public prosecutor's office in Prokuplje. Listen to who they are proposing, and say, "Departing from the high work and professional requirements proposed by the candidate, which are necessary for the public prosecutor's office, we propose Nebojsa Budic." What is Nebojsa Budic? He's the head of the People's Office in Prokuplje. Do you really think we're all crazy around here, do you think we're all crazy? So, if there was a continuity of stupidity, as Vida Petrovic-Skero would say, so let's not see what you're doing to us, because it took him 30 years first to finish college, from 1948 to 1978, if I'm not wrong, but well, a man has studied the same thing three times, so it's not a problem, I guess he learned it well. I guess that stands out if it takes 30 years to finish college. Ama, is anyone going to say something? Thirty years, and what is his only characteristic – the head of the National Office. Entered a gang of thieves. How can you not notice Vida Petrovic Škero that he is a constant thief's behavior? Where is it in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? There's something wrong with my microphone, Mr. Chairman, I know it's not up to you. Where is this in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - the National Office? Do you know where he has it, Mr. Palalic? Why did you give them the budget? So that they may steal and say that they are responsible for something they have done to the citizens. There's no punishment for this continuing thieving behavior, there's a reward for it, it's a democratic force, you'll set up such thieves for prosecutors, judges, for I don't know who everyone in our judiciary is. You're going to think we're all silly and crazy, that no one can say anything. Smee, you'll never be able to shut your mouth to Serbia again. It's not about Mr. Mihajlovic. [[loud from the O.R.: Can't be heard.]] There's something wrong with these devices. It will never go through in Serbia again. What did you think you'd be able to repeat on October 5th, to re-enter the Federal Assembly, how much was missing a picture of Palalic? One hundred and twenty of the most expensive, with an average value of 70,000 euros. Right? What honest people found, they never wanted back. Only 120 out of 179. It's fifty-nine that she found the police, that they didn't know what to do, that it wasn't worth anything to them. Those who did this, lynched Dragan Milanovic and others, turned on the TV, do not dream that it will ever happen again. Do you really think that we are afraid of those who collect something, then collect, collect, and then after a month they say, “We have gathered 20,000?” We collect it in three hours with all the payment and the court signatures. We will never allow in Serbia ever again to lynch anyone, the President of the Supreme Court to be the main politician of any DOS, anyone else, because it is insolent, insolent, insolent and blatant, because someone thinks and gives himself the right to salty politicians, to interfere with what is not his business, and to speak in the worst way about those whom the people love and respect most. At the same time, you told the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – yes, I'm not interested in 35% or 40% of Serbian citizens, 35% of the National Assembly, I'm not even interested in those who voted for me, I'm not interested in anything, because I have some other people who are bosses, I have someone else to hear what I'm supposed to do, how I should behave. It's something no one in the SRS will ever accept. This one has been particularly prominent since 21.6.2005, since the head of the National Office is the president of the Municipality of Prokuplje. Now you tell me what he was doing, what did he stand out for, Mr Palalic, besides stealing folk money past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What's he up to? You don't know how to tell me, none of you know how to tell me, you just brought this here, literally to make us crazy. You could have found at least someone who hadn't studied in 30 years, three times four years, 12 years old and 18, he could have just finished three times. He must have studied it well, studied it thoroughly, so it wouldn't be a dilemma for him to know it well. In this country, many things are upside down. As we hear the brilliant comments and after the football game, no matter the ball is round, there will be no end to the world. No, we thought that axes and saws would fall from the sky, about, so now someone needs to explain to us that it's not the end of the world. So here and here. Never mind, five million euros stolen, that's a small thing, that's nothing. How much they stole this in Nova Popovac, charged with half a million. Are they for half a million, Palalic? They did. These advisers are Djindjics. Half a million euros. What's that? A million and a half euros, and they found it in their account. Nothing, it's a little something. Don't talk about it, because it's a democratic force. The more they steal, the more democratic they are. The more they take from Serbian citizens, the more democratic they are, and the more they are placed in European forces when they steal more than 20m euros. That's two or three political parties. It's a special thing. This graduation is particularly about European forces. When European forces mean they're stealing, not by putting their pockets and their wallets in their pockets, but by taking a shovel and putting it in their trucks. These are the European forces in Serbia. It's the only thing that makes them different from these democratic ones, because these democratic ones still stick into their pockets, steal such a small 5.6m euros, nothing special, just so that citizens don't know what to live on and how to live. You think there's another problem in Serbia. There isn't. Do you really think, gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals, that it's your fault that Krasic said something or did he say something else? You are guilty of this matter only, that you do not belong to these forces that load shovels into trucks and that fill their pockets with 5, 10, 15, 20 and 100m euros claiming to be Serbia's future, and that all those who are against thieving are Serbia's past. That thieving chain we're gonna break up with them. That's what people in Serbia see and that's what Serbian citizens will no longer allow. You, Mrs. Petrovic-Skero, do what you want. Never count on the voices of Serbian radicals and the support of Serbian radicals in your life. Never. I know it doesn't seem to bother you very much, I suppose, that the accounts won't be radicals here at least as long as these European democratic powers rule. Of course, this is all under the pretext - European and democratic, that as long as they rule everything along with Sam Nazar you will be very high, but I must tell you that this is coming to an end. Then everyone will have to answer for what he did against the law, against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All those who stole will have to end up behind bars, and you won't have to explain anything to you. You won't have to explain anything about how you're independent, independent, safe, and I don't know how you've been doing your duty, because we've seen everything, and no one needs to talk to us or explain it to us. On the other hand, I'm not going to talk about how in the Supreme Court you have cases that those who were Supreme Court judges, and today they have lawyers' offices, if, say, file a complaint as a second-degree authority -- the Supreme Court of Serbia, that they know that things have to go down by nature if they want to, even if they are orthodox killers, cold-blooded villains who have liquidated one, two or three men. No, it doesn't matter, they're from the attorney's office, and their representatives were members of the Serbian Supreme Court. That's what we're going to question. Whether it was in accordance with the law, whether it was done by conscience or done in a European and democratic way – I put a little in your pocket, and then I put a little shovel in your truck. That's the thing we're going to be questioning. We will never question your ideological tendencies, we have seen them, you have shown them yourself, even though we were not particularly interested. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS will never be able to accept that thieves from the People's Office who have become rich in folk torment and whose office is only used to hire someone from the thief's DS and who only serves to rob Serbia's budget, Mr. Palalic, who you've given to rob. Yes, you voted them here so they could rob along with my friend Tom Busetic and the others. You've all given it all to vote for those thieves up there. I'm just asking you to explain to us how you think someone's voting for them. Who can you convince here? I'm sure Palalic won't. He's not a crazy man. Yeah, well, he's not a crazy man. That you underestimate him here and underestimate everyone else, like, well, we don't know what we're doing, so now you're going to tell us how and what to choose. Look, the head of the National Office, and it took him 12 years to finish college. Dry genius, I'm just waiting for you to write us here -- expert, encrypted B14+. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you not to accept these proposals, Mrs Petrovic Shkero, do not interfere with what is not your business, because we do not interfere with your individual judgments, we do not interfere with your work. We had a very correct attitude, a very correct relationship, never before did the opposition have a more correct attitude towards judicial officials in this country than in the previous period. I'm sorry that you've played the trust of people who thought it was possible to bring order into this country, I'm sorry that you treated half of Serbia in such an ossion, more than a third of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, Mrs Petrovic Skero, for not thinking about the citizens of Serbia, the laws of this country and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and for the continued behaviour, like this or like that, in political terms, I could tell you as much as I want. I just have to remind you, you, Mrs. Petrovic Skero, came to power by burning down the Assembly and burning down Serbian Television. Not us, you came to power by beating people in the streets in continuity, from the one who slapped people on the way to Belgrade, to these others who lynched people in front of Serbian TV, who were coming with gun pickers, as they themselves testified in their books. I'm curious that you haven't noticed this constant behavior, nor did you notice the continued thieving behavior. Nevertheless, the citizens of Serbia have noticed this, and once again let me ask you: how did you get out of the whole story – Vojo Seselj, your wife is a whore. How did it go, Mrs. Petrovic Skero, how did what was the key to everything that was going on out there disappear, don't you think that something like that happened? How come it doesn't occur to anyone else? You want me to tell you something? I'm told by some journalists, correct, decent, hey, so we don't remember that. Well, how do you remember, soon no one will remember how they burned down the congregation on October 5th when there's no footage, there's no more video of them lynching people, there's no more. They talk to someone about violence, on their demonstrations a total of seven people died. We never hurt anyone, and seven people died in demonstration conflicts, in Serb-Serbian conflicts. You're going to tell us about continuity, and I don't know what I'm talking about. You should be ashamed and ashamed. Well, Serbia raises its head, slowly but surely, and will no longer suffer slavery.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28009	The word is Vojkan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28010	Mr. Chairman, honourable presidents, Mr. Prosecutor, every proposal to elect judges, prosecutors or public prosecutors gives him the opportunity to hold a debate on both the judiciary and the problems that burden him. But, of course, it also gives an opportunity for some political bickering to win political points. For the sake of truth, I would say, on behalf of the DSS, that what we heard at the pay phone deserves to be told the truth, which is that at that time democratic Serbia came to power by winning by Mr Vojislav Kostunica over Slobodan Milosevic, on 24 September 2000, and then at the republican elections in December 2000 and now in the Republic elections in December 2003. When we talk about problems in the judiciary and what the current government is doing to improve the legal framework, far from being aware of the problems in the judiciary. However, like all other segments of society and like the other two branches of the government and the judiciary, it has its problems and is going through a period of transition and a period that should give, for a resulting independent and impartial judiciary that will provide fair legal protection to all Serbian citizens. When we talk about this, we are guided by the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law and legal certainty, and these are some principles that will give us a guideline to obtaining an independent judiciary. We can also hear from our partners in the EU that this is one of the areas that has so far been the least successful in reforms and in all reports of foreign monitoring missions we have had a subdued story in the area of justice. However, I must say that I hope that this will be one of the last debates on human rights issues and in the election of judges and in the election of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, because the strategy we adopted in the Serbian Parliament leaves the area at stake in the area of justice. I think it is one of the best solutions and it is necessary to give time to MPs who are professionally in the area of the judiciary. However, I want to take this opportunity and challenge some of the candidates who do not meet the criteria for choice. First of all, I am referring to the proposal for a public prosecutor's office in Prokuplje – Nebojsa Budic, head of the office of the president of the Municipality of Prokuplje and another candidate who, in my opinion, does not meet the criteria, for the deputy public prosecutor in Jagodina municipality, which is Staša Simic, the prosecutor's assistant at the Municipality's Jagodina. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should declare these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28011	Thank you. Replica, MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28012	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the election results since 24 September 2000 are not controversial, and don't let me remind you, we had Djindjic, Tadic, Ceda and I don't know who else because they didn't have all the records, just because we didn't want to steal. We suffered a severe defeat in those elections, but we provided evidence of election results, because somewhere in southern Serbia, we had controllers where DOS did not have them. Yes, it's commendable that we didn't want to steal, at any time, the people's will. That's what I boast and I'm proud of. And, fortunately for Serbia, it has not happened that those who would make this country happy and this people come. Now, that's true, but that's another question and a whole other thing. I only went out for one word that made me think I was misread. It seems my predecessor did not understand what I meant when I said - democratic. He said democratic Serbia came to power. I don't understand, if it isn't democratic Serbia, who didn't want the elections to come to power? Were you going to say, "Yes, we are Democrats, even if we were taking guns in hands, beating and lynching people on the streets almost to death, accusing our political opponents of the most difficult things possible?" It's the democratic media that you're going to tell you that Toma Nikolic was killing grandparents, that there was no continuous behaviour, so that Alexander Vukic wanted to kill his own mother. Is it democratic media, is it democratic behaviour, is it democratic Serbia? It's not. That's all, but not democratic. It is democratic in the other, ironic sense, for five-sixm euros each puts it in their pockets. What are you talking about? You are talking about that democratic Serbia is the one that has been talking about Serbian radicals in every place for two weeks, and that no radicals are invited anywhere to respond, see Petrovic-Skero, or that Karic, or Dragan Bujosevic, I don't know who I already know. Is that democratic Serbia? Collect 50 like-minded people who can't get 300 votes together in Serbia, it's important what they say against the SRS, and it doesn't matter what any of the Serbian radicals say about it. Is this democratic Serbia, that so far no one has filed charges against those who lynched Dragan Milanovic? There's no charge of bandits beating an older man in the middle of the street and boasting about how they did a good job. Who do you want to chase? Who do you want to accuse of anything? Who goes to jail for anything? No criminal charges, no charges, because it's a good deed, is that your message? Is that what you want us to do with you tomorrow? Well, we won't, no matter how much we're forced to be the same as you, we don't want to be like you, we don't want to lynch anyone, we don't want to fight in the street, we don't want to put shovels in trucks, like... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Those from the DS and all other parties, as they say, are "the democratic bloc". As for this Tianic, you reminded me well, thank you for that, I forgot... (President: Mr. Wolf, you've exceeded your time. I did, Mr. Mihailovich, but something happened, which is the ultimate insolence, so I have to talk about it. In this newspaper, "Politics" that they turned into B92, they suspiciously privatized her, kidnapped her from the state what belonged to the state, and I won't even say it, it's a shame in itself. This -- media and public service -- that's what all Serbian citizens pay for, asking us all to pay the subscription. Then how dare the editor-in-chief of the information program, some Nenad Lj. Stefanovic, how's Lj. Stefanovic is allowed to plead against the SRS? It wasn't Dad and Mom who bought him Serbian Television, it wasn't Dad and Mom who gave him dozens and hundreds of millions of euros, but Serbian citizens, 40% of them who support the SRS. What's wrong with these people? They're all socio-political workers? Who are they, what are these people? Who gave them the right to do it and act like one. And he says, "I didn't want to let Seselj go of this, you didn't want to let go of whoever 40% of the people are for." He wouldn't let go, now he's very smart and important, he wouldn't let go, and here – give money for the subscription. There's no such insolence in any country in the world. That's because we've made socio-political workers in the past 15 years, who have to be on that side and fancy it, and it's that they plead that they're on that side. So that Mrs. Popovic-Skero would go to "Imprint", so now she doesn't say anything against radicals, so what, it doesn't make sense, what they would say to her. It has to, because it's a natural condition, because radicals have to beat like a bag. You know, when they beat like a sack, they're not the brave ones, now they're gonna shut up like the water, no one's gonna come out on my tail or anything... (Chairman: Mr. Wolfie, please, you've been over three minutes. )......................................................................................................... No one's alive, but they're going out, let me tell you, I'm ending up Mr. Mikhailovich, they're only going out where there's no one to answer, because they're very strong then, very strong. When I see these from DS, especially since they came back from these 6-0, how many of those from DS in the stands, it's a good thing we didn't lose 12:0, 6-0 is a favourable result. When I saw Tadic, I knew it was going to be 3:0-4:0, and when I saw both Gilas and Sutanovec, I knew it was 6, 7, at least. I was afraid, at one point a friend from the SRS sent me a message – if you see Tadic, Gilas and Sutanovac, you must play until 21. That's our condition in Serbia, too. So they destroyed her, destroyed her, morally improved her, and reversed her. Do you think we won't stand up to you? Do you think you're a hundred times smarter? You're wrong, you just have a lot more money and a lot more socio-political workers in the media and nothing more, but we'll fight a different Serbia, we'll fight and fight for a better Serbia, for a Serbia where there won't be a lynching of political opponents, but those who do that will go to jail. We will vote for Serbia in which everyone will have the right to a different opinion and in which they will be able to come to political duels and in which the Supreme Court president will not share political lessons with those of whom they think otherwise. For such a Serbia, I have an obligation to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28013	Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28014	I apologize for some additional obligations I wasn't present here at the time when the candidate for district attorney in Prokuplje was called, Nebojsa Budic. I had some obligations in the Directorate, and the Kosovo Committee was supposed to have a meeting at 11.00 p.m., however, based on what was said here, I can say the following. I'm not one of the people who suggested Nebojsa Budic as district attorney, but when that proposal came out, I accepted him because I think the proposal is good, one of the few good proposals, and I think Nebojsa Budic is an extremely good candidate for the district attorney. What is said here is that I want to deny that Nebojsa Budic has human, moral qualities and that Nebojsa Budic, above all, has professional qualities. It's about an extremely professional man in the area. Nebojsa Budic is a 16-year-old court judge in Prokuplje, for eight years she works as a lawyer in Prokuplje and, above all, as a prominent person in the city, a minority of all citizens has been proposed as head of the National Office. It's about a quality man. I don't think we should argue with this proposal here. As for that study time quote, I can confirm to you that Nebojsa Budic has studied for five and a half years, which is possible to check at the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28015	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SPS, I'm going to say a few words about the candidates proposed for the election. Namely, when it comes to judges, the SPS will challenge the candidate for the district court judge in Nis – Jasmin Jovovic and the candidate for the municipal court in Sapac – Tatjan Ilic. Your reasons are that the proposed candidates do not meet the conditions to do this job. They're politically biased. One of them doesn't have enough experience to do such a significant job. The second thing, during the term of office of one of the candidates was used by a forged signing of the president of the municipality and on this basis the premises of the SPS were taken away and the entire assets of the SPS were sold out, although it was in permanent use. A court enforcer was admitted to the employment relationship without meeting the conditions of the competition, but he did not have a state exam. He participates in the violent break-in of the SPS's premises, it was a reward for a "good" job done. In various disputes in companies, a court tax was charged, although the law did not give her the right, as companies were in a blockade, workers received the lowest earnings. In disputes, the candidate used the findings of individual skills, data from the Republic Public Revenue Administration, extremely subjective. When it comes to prosecutors and prosecutors, in addition to those who have been challenged, the SPS challenges candidates for deputy prosecutors in the Kingdom, Novi Pazar and Vrbas, for the reason that they have shown absolutely in their previous work that they are politically biased and that they do not have that amount of professionality and the necessary objectivity to be able to perform such a responsible job. To say a few more words about the biggest robbery in the history of modern Serbia, which was done with the agreement of the judiciary in Serbia, directly according to the country's dictatorship and which shows, in fact, what I tried to prove in the first exhibition, that, when the opposition of the executive authority over the judiciary was established, it was then allowed to do everything. Otherwise, the biggest robbery in Serbia's modern history, related to the way of privatisation, is the privatisation of Sartida. I'll remind you that a thousand of the best companies were sold for two billion dollars, and 49% of Telecom was sold for about 800 million dollars in the '90s. That alone says enough: 1,000 companies two billion dollars, and one company, 49% of one company for about 800 million dollars. How was the privatisation done? I think the Sartida case best shows that privatisation was made in Serbia. Maybe "Sartid" isn't a good enough pattern, but it shows literally how the state functioned and what the courts did. Sartid was sold for $21.3m, although the Belgrade Economic Institute estimated the value of Sartid to $5.645m. The difference is about $35-36 million. The state forgave the buyer Sartida a billion and 700 million dollars in liabilities. That billion and $700m commitment will be paid by Serbia, i.e. Citizens, i.e. All of us. It will pay by making the Republic of Serbia, this government, even having a statement in this direction that this country will never become an EU member until it settles, in addition to all other duties that are being imposed on us, and obligations to search for Sartida's assets. This mentions an Austrian consortium looking for over 110 million dollars. There are other companies from Germany mentioned and so on. So, until these commitments calm down, past Mladic, past this whole story that has an absolute political dimension here and is a kind of pressure and blackmail for Serbia, there is no EU entry. The Sartid was sold in a way where directly accomplices were people from the judiciary and courts. The Anti-Corruption Council has published a detailed report, which is not read much or at least not publicly, and it would be good if we all read it together, because it says that the court was doing and what it did to sell "Sartid" like this. Since it's a very large matter, it has a few dozen pages, I'll read only that conclusion, about the court and the harsh violations of the law. I quote: "That the court, through the abuse of its powers, failed to carry out bankruptcy actions that had to be carried out even before the decision to sell a creditor." Otherwise, you know, Sartid was excluded from the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Pogorevc and transferred to the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Belgrade and then it happened, and instead of assessing the value of $57m, Sartid was directly contracted, without any bid and without public competition, sold for $21.3m. "The court has made the property of a creditor in the bankruptcy proceedings totally unprotected, which means that it is not known, nor will it ever be known what was the property of a creditor and whether it was handed over to the buyer or some property was acquired from and from whom, and the court worked secretly, because it did not publicly announce the sale of creditors by direct contract, so that the purchase would be made available to all interested persons; that the purchase was set up to a certain buyer for a price, without any contract; that the rights of creditors were violated because the creditors were disabled to exercise their rights provided for by the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, to obtain the conditions to claim charges in a favourable amount. The court has violated the trustee's rights under Article 6(1). European Conventions on Human Rights, the right to legal and fair trial in civil matters, as well as the right to Article 1. Protocol I of the European Convention on Human Rights – the right to enjoy property peacefully because the trustee's assets are in a bankruptcy debt. The sale of "Sartida" and a business addict in the bankruptcy process raises suspicion that it is a classic case of corruption involving the highest authorities of the executive and judicial authorities, who have misused their position. They made it possible for a foreign company to gain a privileged position and thus make a large illegal profit. The company has been consciously in the game, as shown by the concessional steps, expressing its alleged desire to help companies in major difficulties, and in fact, seeking a privileged position, thus achieving a key advantage over potential competitors in the privatisation process (see a business-technical co-operation contract, which, otherwise, exists; a proposal by a bankruptcy manager, a letter and a court solution. All in favor of this material). They sought and received something that could never belong to them in the rule of law system: protecting the executive from possible actions of the judicial authority." Now you'll see who's involved in these matters. "The agreement of Minister Vlahovic with a privileged buyer, which was included all the time by the prime minister and who received confirmation of the entire government and the Republic Secretariat of legislation, was done to harm the state, i.e. all citizens of this country. According to all indications, the sale price of $21.3 billion is very low. The Economic Institute estimated the value not only of the investment capital of the parent company Sartid at 57,645 million dollars, but also the value of other enterprises in the other system. Another detail: "On the other hand, the buyer is exempt from paying back debts, the amount is unconfirmed, although the media mentions a $1.7 billion figure." This is the most drastic and most corrupt case in Serbia, which he is silent about. This was done at the very top of the state and because it was done at the top of the state, that's why it's silent. As I was saying, when Milosevic was kidnapped and the investigative judge kept quiet, when the President of the District Court kept quiet, when the Supreme Court president kept his mouth shut, despite the violations and the law that regulates the issue and despite the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then they had to keep quiet about this as well. That's what I'm saying, when they didn't have the spine back then, then there's no need to give us public lessons and talk about how the judiciary should look, they just need a little more space, a little more power and money, then there's going to be honey and milk. The case of corruption is confirmed and cited in one week, where our ambassador's statement in America is quoted, it was the SCG ambassador. He said in the magazine "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette", a statement that has never been denied, said Sartid bought US "US Steel" for $33m (see price difference: $21.3m and $33m), of which 23 million in cash, six million in commission, transaction fees and four million in employee care. I've never heard anyone mention six million in transactions, and the question is, have these four million in employee care ever entered the Sartid? There's our fellow MP Brance Stojanovic, he's from Smederev, and I think he's very competent to tell the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia if that money ever came to Sartide. So, this statement was never denied, but then silence arose. When I said the state forgave $1.7 billion, we'll all have to pay for it and no entry into the European Union until those obligations are regulated. This is claimed by other people who have dealt with this matter, because the Austrian consortium and other companies that have invested and had business co-operation with Sartida will never give up their money and will charge them, but we will all pay it through their pockets because the state has decided by direct contract to sell the company far below its price. Otherwise, experts appreciate that the value of this company is about $600 million, that it is practically sold at 30 times the price and probably hence this high six-million-dollar fee that no one mentions. Otherwise, when the German federal economy minister was interested in the fate of Sartide and his demands, I quote from the NIN "Shortly and coldly rejected by the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia", then No Kolesar and now you can see the confirmation of these words and how all this went. For today's agenda, I took an example of Sartide, and there are hundreds and hundreds of these examples because a thousand of the best companies were sold for two billion euros, and the money between the real price and the one at which these companies were sold ended up in secret accounts in banks in the Exotic Islands, because this commission is not part of some budget of the Republic of Serbia, but was deposited in private accounts. An example of three cements that were sold, all three, for less value than was offered in 1998 for one of them also confirms these allegations. This cement plant in Novi Popovac is the subject of an investigation, but it has not yet come to an end about what has been happening in particular. So, we had a couple of excellency robberies in the works and the silence of the state authorities, as well as the direct help of the courts to have one huge robbery done. What do you say after that? That some people in the judiciary do honorably work, but that there are those who do bad and to the harm of the state. Such ones should be prevented from being in the judiciary, and valuable, honest and smart who really respect the law and this state and are willing to contribute to the construction of institutions, give them support to carry out the job as long and as best as possible, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28017	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28018	From time to time, we get these points of the agenda, which represent the crown evidence of the existence of a continuity in the way our judiciary works and what someone said – continuity is nothing new and it reminds me and shows me that today is not much different and that it exists long ago. I can say this because I'm in this profession. My mission in this room is to express the political views of the SRS, to criticise other people's political attitudes, to help my party be as popular as possible and to achieve the best result in the elections, and of course I would prefer to win those 150 mandates and be able to exercise power on our own. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are rightly concerned because they see that we are being torn apart by this continuity, democratic continuity, this democratic bloc that has imposed some new principles on us. How diabolical the principles are that for some time it is very difficult to understand what is the background and the essence of what is happening. Of course, I'll take the opportunity, since this is a point that refers to the choice of judicial officials, without intending to repeat what my predecessors have said, regardless of which parliamentary groups, and I know that they all spoke well on purpose, but I can't understand that one of the same men was resolved a few years ago and is now proposed for a choice with the exact same explanation. There's one explanation that he wasn't an expert, it just happened that he came to some office and drank all his waist right away. The cannon is still flowing, slightly dirty from the bullet, but over the night, value criteria change. I am saying this more because of one of the following decisions – a motion for a decision that will be on the agenda, and as far as the New Sad elections are concerned, where the candidates who lost here were again proposed, the Assembly did not accept them during the first proposal, so that in the meantime it was probably a little bit drunk in the Danube or in some corner some degree or in the meantime they mastered the material in some judicial center, in the society of judges or NGOs, who knows where. There is no value criterion, and we should not be surprised by the continuity of the bad situation in our judiciary. I used to try to point out some objective problems that make it impossible for the courts and prosecutors to be who we probably wanted them to be, but now I see we're in front of a "sysific job," because we can't get rid of that continuity. The continuity of arson, the continuity of black stockings, the conquest of the National Bank, the theft of art, the destruction, but wrapped up in shorelands, the democratic block, democratic reform, all democratic. That is why I call on citizens, radicals are demanding 150 mandates to implement the necessary reforms in this society, because this continuity has torn us apart. Because of this continuity, we have lost the full continuity of statehood, our national substrate is, as you notice, diluted, wasted, so that they appear with different names of different people who convince us that it is very desirable and democratic if you lose your job, if you lose your case in court and we are essentially talking today about whether it is possible to determine the truth in court and whether our courts are in the interest of justice and justice. All my predecessors provided very precise information based on which anyone reasonable can conclude that justice and justice do not squat in our courts. Why? Because law enforcement officers would prefer to do other things. That's the difference in behavior. It's not that important to them, it's not the Constitution, it's not the law, it's the likeness, whether it's someone who's going to resent it, whether it's going to be criticized, how it's going to be criticized, etc. Now, just for the sake of the public, I have to remind myself that the only party who has publicly said that all judges will defend against political persecution and harassment, no matter where they are in the justice system, and even if it may be the president of the highest court, unfortunately instead of considering it as a good guarantee that it works under the Constitution and the law, we see that something is more interesting if a kind of political flirtation is carried out, we don't know why, but we interpret it with continuity. You know, it's very embarrassing when you're the president of a court, so you're running out of prisoners, being kidnapped, and then that president of the court informs the public that he's surprised, appalled, appalled, because that way democracy doesn't work, that democracy doesn't understand the Constitution and the law, and then the court's scribes rebel, so that president of the court better see him with the scribes. You know, I'm sure in one situation and another, that president of the court was wrong. If he's supposed to fight for the position of legal employees, then it's one address, but it's not a street. If he is to fight for the rights of the defendant, who is ultimately under the supervision of the president of the court, while in custody, then the reaction had to be appropriated to the severity of the action that was done to the defendant, because just to remind you, he was kidnapped. I must warn you that it will probably not be a long time before these crimes are out of date, although it has been six years since the Parliament was burned, the beaten people due to a different political attitude, the National Bank of Serbia, etc. I can't accept that someone who's a professional, who deals with the judiciary, takes advantage of the opportunity to go faster and better to be a guest on TV, to make a statement to the newspaper, and not to learn from the gaffe that happened a few months ago. A few months ago, someone from the High Council of Justice, I don't want to conduct an investigation into who he is, whether he planted it or not, but he found it appropriate that the High Council of Justice criticised the National Assembly, so why not all proposals of the High Council of Justice were not accepted in the National Assembly. When we warned from this pay phone that we were simply not intertwined in business, everyone knows in this system and the election process of judges where the work and jurisdiction of one authority begins, where he ends up with his authority, where what is the authority of the National Assembly begins, that it is not good to give a lecture to the National Assembly. These days we've had opportunities to hear from the same person too, you know what, we've suggested a large number of resolutions, but that's impossible, because the Justice Committee isn't ambushing, and even entering the reasons why the Committee doesn't ambush. Obviously, someone from the judiciary is actively involved in politics, so it's very pronounced, and I suggest that everyone who has political ambitions, take one table and start forming a party, join a party, but with clean hands, that we know when we talk here to a man, with a representative of the highest state institution, the highest state court, the prosecution, that we know that it's a professional, not a fellow politician who's possibly not in this room by mistake. Clean bill – long love, it's an old good saying. Of course, Mr. Jankovic, that doesn't apply to you, since you don't make political statements, you avoid doing it, because you're a professional, you've spent the entire working life in the D.A.'s office and what I've critically brought out here, you know it doesn't apply to you. I need to draw attention to how to convince a man now, that if he has any issues with a neighbor, with a relative, that the court is the right institution where he should turn for help and to solve these problems. What is this time to come to justice, the Constitution, the law, etc.? How do we convince him to do it through court and that the court is probably the most competent, the place with the highest authority. To begin with, there have been so many affairs in this country, democratic affairs. You almost don't have it, it's probably 99% of the privatisations in the Republic of Serbia that have been made, and they're with heavy objections. I'm not going to use any other words, but based on something that's available, so documentation, and even sound judgment, doesn't require any expertise, which is obtained by waiting on some gutter to drop something off the roof, it can easily be determined that there is a reasonable suspicion of serious crime. Anyone who's reasonable can judge that, because it's not hard at all. So, there's a suspicion and there's a need to reconsider, to determine, to see what's what. I'm not going to comment on some of the affairs right now for the simple reason, because I don't know, they may be in some sort of process, but I have to remind you that before the trial takes place, everyone has already reached a verdict. We have two or three laws that prohibit commenting, and this prosecution law and this public information law specifically prohibits, but you can't stop some of them from commenting. I don't think it's weird when these guys go, come on because of the suspicious smells, to deal with politics. They don't surprise me, the ones that were sitting in a bar until a few years ago, and now they say, so we can take money from abroad, just register some NGO or party. I don't see them as political competition, so that doesn't apply to them. But I can't understand that people from the judiciary are going to that kind of comment. It was probably your intention, when you were making a decision, to have these special judges for public relations, to reduce that pressure so as not to simply disengage a competent court, even though the case is in some case with some data or with some comment, but a weak vision of everything. Just to continue with what Mrs. Radeta said at the beginning, we have a special prosecutor for war crimes. Believe me, any reasonable person in the National Assembly who would be an expression of the authentic will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would never raise his hand to make this man a special prosecutor. Let me remind you, it's the one that threatens the pigeons. I don't want to get into the quality of his work at all, in the assessment of what he did, let him do it in his court proceedings, because there are higher organs that will evaluate what he did and how he did, but he's like a protected beast. The Republican prosecutor must not even address that special prosecutor. The minister, I don't believe that he can turn the phone around, and with whom he's on the phone, it's those four women, the apocalypse, four of the most hated women in Serbia -- Biserko, Kandic, and I don't order any further, he makes bills for them, and then through one legal adviser, one embassy, they get a whole court, they go abroad, and they agree there. They make a deal, they make a verdict, but they still can't finish the job they thought they'd do. I don't want to go any further than this. That he shares with Serbia, so the prosecutor says: I do not want to talk to another Serbia, he only talks with "democratic" Serbia, probably where his sister works. Next, she says, she appreciates Carla Del Ponte as a great professional. As far as I know, people who do this profession, I've never heard from anyone who praises her so much, that she's such an expert, but if he calls and proves his expertise with her expertise, then you know what she's chosen to do and that she's persecuting. Now let's see how democratic courts do it after arson. It's been exactly three years since the murder of Zoran Djindjic. When do you think this case is going to end? As I recall, there are 12 or 13,000 people in Sabre devoid of freedom. Freedom has been denied to replace one mafia with another, preferably the "democratic" mafia. That's what I'm gonna tell you from this pay phone all the time. The object is not solved. Who are they guarding? Where's the truth? It's now part of the court, part of the prosecution, where the republican prosecutor has no authority whatsoever. Good afternoon, good afternoon, good night, good night. Next man can't ask, he'll be on his way. Minister, it's just a matter of work. If the minister just turns the phone, the democratic bloc will immediately move – an inappropriate impact on the independent judiciary, etc. You know how it works on the arsenal. Here when you're tampered with through the newspapers, no one lives to wash you out. To deny later, no, no. Let's see what continuity is all about. Does the public in Serbia know that Serbia no longer has any institution to study war crimes against Serbs? Kadadinovic, Stojkovic, shut down the institution. Who's in this business? A few teachers in advanced years because of patriotic feelings and the need to hear the truth. They're almost half-privately collecting documentation to save this people's pride and dignity and to get the real truth about what's been going on. State's running, blocking. That's the continuity of October 5th. Continuity – how to endanger the state. Continuity, the charges against Solana have been dropped, he's become best friend. Just to remind you and keep reminding you, he signed the bombing, he's directly responsible for thousands and thousands of dead, innocent citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but you follow him continuously. We can sort by that continuity of yours and how you need to protect something, and what you're protecting is neither the Constitution nor the law. When I get a chance to read a statement from one of the presidents of the courts, though I have to say, prosecutors report less than these two outlaws, then I see that there is actually a democratic continuity here. You remember when the one who pretends to be President of the Republic, Tadic, said Michelle Platini was the best goalie. A man knows sports, he was in water polo, only Platini wasn't in water polo goalie, he was a football player, but it doesn't matter. It can do anything in democracy. You see, that's how it comes to you with both some judges and some of the presidents of the courts. They mess everything up. At one point they forget that the judges are, rather than start to judge as politicians what would be useful, well, what would be the national interest of number one. The judge estimates what national interest is, number one, and then he gets on the television nicely, makes his personal point. While someone performs a high state function, he has no room, no space, no time for his personal attitudes. If someone goes on a show with a name and a last name, then they can't stand in the signing of his office, especially when it comes to people from the judiciary, because there's a mix-up in the audience. Does he talk like a man of so many pounds or talk like a man of some function? When you see it down in the signature, then it says -- maybe this is an official position, it's an inappropriate influence on lower courts and judges who can reason. Take someone from Babushnica, from White Palanca, and he says, "Yeah, now it's "in" what I heard or heard." So this is the attitude, it's going to be in some interpretation of the court. It's not nice when the judiciary is ripped off and it starts to deal with politics, it's not nice when the judiciary is angry with criticism, especially when it hears from the only official place to criticise, which is the speaker of the National Assembly. When criticism is heard from here, it is beneficial, when you hear the criticism of the judiciary on the street or in some media, then think about what that criticism is. He won't allow himself here to criticise the judiciary, to speak to himself, and to present some information, but you in the judiciary have to understand that. You're forbidden from politics. Now, Serbian citizens, I guess you understand why in 2000 it was a good initiative to stop the work of the Republic of Serbia's judges' society, to stop their political activity, not judicial, because they started to make everyone and everyone thinks about everything and everything. Now they've built their own education center through NGOs, there's a lot to do. I'm waiting for that report on my parliamentary question, how much he won on making the law, from those of the democratic bloc. The democratic block has become a dangerous block. It's a fund-raiser under the law of illegality. Pronunciation and justification for everything done is like when a kid draws a horse and writes a horse under it. It's just enough to be said -- it's democratic, and then when you bring in these media, it's democratic, it's a fraud, it's democratic, it's all democratic, it enjoys respect, it's supposed to be "in", it needs to be attacked, it needs to be made possible and it needs to be able to create conditions for those who wanted to break it up to end the break-up business. Be aware of that. You can scoot all you want, you can get all the trouble you want, you can argue with what I'm telling you. Just to remind you, all the criticisms of the law from this pay phone and that we are right, has confirmed practice, because after a few months those who need to implement this law say – it is inadmissible law. Let me remind you, about the Rehabilitation Act. We criticized you that you could not be carried out, for all depends on the will of one man – judges, and that the law is unruly. A few laws ago, you received exactly that kind of message from the judiciary. And that part of the justice that deals professionally, not politically. It gave a very good professional answer, it fits our political stance. Why? Because it's a reality. Why would we talk about something here that's not reality? Remember, we will continue to have proposals to elect judges and prosecutors, those who express, support and represent the continuity of the burning building of the Federal Assembly. These images will also come back, everything allegedly democratically stolen, but it will take a little time and a lot of effort and work to get out of this, to finally find some judges who won't deal with politics, who won't suffer what that kind of democratic public says, whether it's "in" or "out". We speak in principle, as we spoke in principle, even when someone chose. And when someone chose, then we also spoke in principle and defended the professional attitude of each individual. It will not dry our hand, it is important that we persist in our principle and tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – there is one party that adheres to the principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28019	Since the lists are no longer signed up for a word, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Petrovic Shkero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28020	Dear MPs, I use the right to address you and welcome you. Since there has been a lot of talk here about me as a person, and it seems to me less about what we now have a lot to talk about here, I'm going to try to respond first to everything I can, given the possibility of asking questions about challenging certain candidates who are proposed for a judge's election or progress in a judicial office, because I'm not normally authorized to talk about proposals for prosecutors. With regard to Mrs Radet's objection that from Kruševac all the proposed candidates are representatives of one party, I would really not be able to answer anything, because, according to the law of the judge or the one applying to the place of the judge, he could not and should not be a representative of one party, and with regard to those materials that are attached, it can be seen for which reasons the High Council of Justice, in this composition which works, has proposed judges to choose them. As for candidates who had a relatively small number of years to be proposed to elect a judge, I suppose, regardless of the name not mentioned, it is a candidate for the Belgrade court. I must point out that it was the High Council who handled what we think should be the ambition of all of us who are participating in the choice of judges in some way, which is that it was a candidate who had a high grade during his studies and that it was one of those very rare candidates who had a reputation for taking a judicial exam, perhaps a thousand candidates were given a medal, and for these reasons that candidate, given the assessment he received from the court, was proposed to elect a judge. In terms of the proposals that are related to Nis and Shabac, also, here I am now controlling those lists, that effect that can only manage us if we have nothing else and that would also represent a proposal managed by the quality of the work of judges. The Novo Sad proposal, which I think from Mr. Vukic or Krasic, is irrelevant in fact, is a disputed candidate from Novi Sad, is not a name, but an observation has been made for the reason that he did not pass in the Assembly once before. It was a candidate who applied for the seat of the president of the court and was not elected by the assembly. The colleague has now applied from the district court to the district court and has convincingly the best results of work, the absolute support of the low-level court in which she works and the higher court proposed for the election, and this was led by the High Council of Justice to propose her to elect candidates. I'd also like to say a few sentences about the situation in the judiciary. The situation in the judiciary isn't great, and that's what the judiciary always says. As a result, we all know which is, we don't need to talk much here, we know the time period behind us and what problems have led to this situation in the judiciary, and we just have to try and fight to move that situation to the better. But you also know what it is like at this point, because, as President of the Supreme Court, I have also delivered to the National Assembly an annual report on the work, and we will continue with this practice, regardless of such a legal obligation, and a six-month report, that is, analysis of the work of courts with all data, will also be delivered to the National Assembly, in order to be familiar with the work and functioning of the judiciary that must be better. I fully agree with the assessment that it is a big problem when in one country it happens that the holders of judicial functions have in their ranks persons, judges or prosecutors, against whom criminal proceedings have been brought, not presummating innocence, it is already a big problem. At this point, he's against six judges in criminal proceedings. Of course, when we consider 2.5 thousand and a little more judges, we could say that this number is not large, but when we know it's a judicial function, of course it is a worrying number, and we have a lot to take care of, but the judiciary can't just deal with it. In order for what appears as a negative phenomenon, or case, to be rooted out in the judiciary, many others have to participate, since justice cannot only pursue and reveal itself. Someone else is in charge of the discovery, and then, and there we have shown that it can continue to happen, the prosecutor has to initiate the proceedings, and the court has to judge. That's where we expect all of us to participate in removing everything that's negative. I'd like to point out one more thing. It is true that we are in a great story of the independence of the judiciary, but we need to know that the judiciary is independent of the exercise of its power, in terms of the trial. On the other hand, of course we are not independent, we must have our own responsibility, we must bear it and, of course, we must bear in mind that the judiciary is very dependent on the work of the legislative authority, because the quality of the law certainly depends on and what kind of protection of rights will be given to citizens. On the other hand, there have been discussions with which I agree and I always talk about it, and that is the question of how law can be implemented that can sometimes be very good, but if the conditions for their implementation are not ensured we will not have a positive effect again, and at the end of the day, the judiciary will be responsible for such a case, where the law is not possible to implement or for reasons that there are no provisions, or it contains provisions that are not possible to be implemented in the judiciary or when the executive authority has not provided the conditions for the law to be implemented. The judiciary has now faced many laws that have been passed and that have very good elements, but also those elements that point to the inability to implement these laws by courts in an appropriate manner. We have faced a problem that I pointed out at the beginning of the year, that an under-determined budget for the operation, or the implementation of certain laws, can lead to problems in the judicial system and, behold, this is happening. An insufficient budget for lawyers who must be involved in certain procedures is now paralysing the work of the judiciary. This will then be reflected in what is to be said – the judiciary has not done everything to them. When a law is passed that has its perfect paper, in the sense that every minor, whether he is accused, whether he is damaged, must have a trial by a specialised judge, must always have a lawyer, of course carrying a big problem now that he defines the budget he has to pay for that lawyer. The delay in any such trial costs even more, and then the problem arises. I hope that the Assembly and the country's competent authority will also respond to the Supreme Court's request to supplement the Rehabilitation Act that was adopted, because the Rehabilitation Act does not have the provisions necessary to determine the procedure, and it has led to the trial of a three-member professionally larger judge of the District Court in the first degree and, in the second instance, a five-member professionally larger judge of the Supreme Court. Of course, this one had no idea how many cases there would be, no one had made the exact budget, whether the existing judiciary with the existing number of judges and the existing equipment, I mean the courtrooms and the conditions in which it was done, whether it could carry it properly or possibly lead to some suppression in the work of the courts. We'll see about that, but in any case, a large number of cases have arrived. The Supreme Court has adopted the principle of how principles will be applied accordingly, but we know that the principled position, according to the law, binds the judges of the Supreme Court, that the lower courts are not bound by principle. In addition, despite accepting such a principled stance, there are still major issues raised in this law, and I hope that the Supreme Court's initiative to supplement such a law, so that it can be implemented, will soon be decided by the Assembly if it has an appropriate proposal. This legislative action of the Assembly has led to the problem of the functioning of a judiciary that is now like this, that approximately in the time period of last year, there has been an increase in the number of cases in county courts, from 20-30%, to over 60% in the District Court. On the other hand, there has been a reduction in the inflow of cases in municipal courts and we have now met with municipal courts that have a small inflow, a lag and a very high burden in the district courts. Of course, all of this can come out of a crisis when a network of courts is established, or judges who will transfer those powers from one court to another and fill in those gaps. At this point, it is not possible, and in this year we will have a problem with functioning in respect of the number of cases and the overload of one part of the judiciary and the relative unburdenedness of the second part of the judiciary. I hope that all together, sometime by the end of the year, we will be able to get out of these problems by the fact that the new network of courts that are to be established by law on 1 January will solve this problem, but the adoption of laws that have already been established as if the network had been established will certainly lead to a slowdown in a certain number of cases at certain levels in one year. What I was going to say was, I'm just going to try to make a statement about the judiciary. And when I spoke on behalf of the Council or in the name of the Supreme Court of Justice about some of the problems of functioning, and sometimes I mentioned other authorities, it was always and only relevant to what was happening to the judiciary. In terms of the word that has been spoken many times today - continuity, it was a word related to the impression of some contribution, not to the functioning of the work of the judiciary and not to what constitutes the functioning of me, as the President of the Court. So, I just wanted to say it, and I wouldn't explain it any further. I'd like to point out one more thing. There's been a lot of talk here about economic courts. The new laws are mainly those of the matter that were related to certain business in commercial courts moved into the agencies. The agency's functioning issue will assess the practice, but what happened again. It happened that citizens' final decisions, i.e. legal persons, have the right to press charges against the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Supreme Court. The inflow of cases in this department has become very large, given that the new law on labour relations in the state authorities also provides for the jurisdiction of the administrative department of this court. In addition, this Supreme Court department will receive, or receive, almost 4.5 thousand cases on the basis of a regulation adopted at one point. All this certainly leads to a problem of the functioning of this court, given again the number of judges who at the moment cannot change, the space in which it works, the space in which today it is physically impossible to place new 4.5 thousand cases that should at the moment pass from the jurisdiction of the SCG court to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia and all of this is a major problem in the functioning of the judiciary. I would like to point out that we all have in mind what we are doing and what will wait for us in terms of our work by next year and that I hope that everyone will participate in ensuring the conditions for the implementation of the legal deadline of 1.1.2007, because otherwise there may be a major problem with the existence of a large number of cases in certain courts, a very reduced number of cases in small courts in which the inflow of cases, in some of them at present, is 2-3 per judge, unlike ordinary courts where the inflow of cases is 60 at this time, even 70 and 80, and that it can really cause a problem within a reasonable time, as well as in achieving an effective court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28021	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we heard the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia who gave us good exposure to problems in the judiciary, problems in implementing the Rehabilitation Law, the problem because of the fact that certain holders of judicial functions are being prosecuted, regardless of the presummation of innocence, but then it came to tell us about the words mentioned today – continuity, that it is only responsible for performing judicial functions and that there should be no influence in the performance of judicial work and judicial functions. There's no doubt about it. I wonder if the D.A.'s office will do its job and file charges against you, for example. Dinkic and Matic for the case of stealing money around the B92 business space, by the way, for those ignorants who talk about the business space of the SRS, to say that all parties in Zemun at the same price got a square meter from the Civilian Union, and let's say that the newspaper that did not want to release my answer to the Thief Democratic Party did not write that they would take at least 26m euros because of that villa in Kronska Street that no one would talk about, which was excluded from Dipos's fund in an illegal manner, etc., but it is not a topic. The question arises: what will you do when a second-degree decision comes to the Serbian Supreme Court and Vida Petrovic-Skero has an impact on the decision. How's she gonna affect that? What do you think, the applicant of a criminal report would be the SRS, and her pets, those of the democratic bloc and her favorite television, the subject of criminal charges, that is, they committed certain incriminating acts and in the first degree proceedings were ruled as well. It will make a decision that doesn't matter if the law says it one way or another, but I will make a decision that is against the SRS as a criminal, and in favour of criminals, for the simple reason that Vida Popovic-Skero has shown what its continuing opinion is. You have no right to do that, Mrs. Petrovic-Skero. It's not true you can talk about it. You can, of course, see that no one will do you anything, but that's why you lost 80 people who raised their hand to you, just because of one thing and one principled behavior at one point, even though you never did us any favors, even though you never did anything for the SRS, because we never asked for it, and we never expected it from anyone, but at one point we respected one principled attitude, one principled relationship – that Djindjic's authority did not scare you the way all the other holders of judicial functions scared you. You've lost that trust. Not only did you lose that trust, you lost the citizens of Serbia's trust. I suppose that doesn't mean anything to you, since that's interesting to you, I found it in the paper today, and Mrs. Shkero has the same newspaper, and the title is "Together to the SRS". That's the big news. I have to comment on all this, and why is it all about what we're talking about today? I don't want to talk about how Dragan Bujosevic or others lied about how radicals were from 1990 to 2000... At that time, for seven and a half years, we were the fiercest opponents of the SPS, Voja Seselj, Toma Nikolic and the others spent more in prison than everyone else, and those who criticized them today spent in the Assembly during that period. But let's just put it all aside. So for six years, none of the representatives of the SRS has exercised any authority at either the republic or the province level, except for participation in the legislative authority, but there is no involvement in the executive government. Now you're asking the question how is it possible that we're a problem in a state, how is it possible that we're not running any government, everyone in the state is a problem? Why is that their problem? Why is this a problem See Petrovic-Škero, why is it a problem with this newspaper, why is it a problem with Tadic, Dinkic, Kostunica, this or that, all together? Have you thought about it? Did we lynch them on the streets? No, we're not. Shall we ban them? No, we'll keep them like a little bit of water on your palm. (President: Time.) What's the problem? I'll tell you what the problem is. The problem is that those who are God's opposition, until yesterday, they said they were the only opposition, and when the pan-pans came for the government, they said, we'll give you six months' support. When a public opinion survey came again, it doesn't have to be true, it can be 20% and 50%, I don't care how much public opinion research says, all of that answers are – we love each other very much again. That we accused you of murder, that you accused us of the greatest theft, theft, crime, that doesn't matter, that's the most important thing for all of us to go to the radicals. Why? Because even today, when they're in opposition, when they only have the President of the Republic, and they have the President of the Chamber of Commerce, the Olympic Committee and all the football and basketball clubs, everywhere there's money, now they're going to have the D.A., some thief and the National Office, and I don't know who. How much longer? You know where that fear came from? Because they know that this thieving chain, this vicious continental circle, the circula next door, we're going to stop forever. Because thieves won't be in all those places anymore. That's why they, ladies and gentlemen, are in such a panic. It's a very simple reason, there's no other reason. You, Mrs Petrovic-Skero, have not heard from the MPs of the SRS since you performed this function, and you have been here several times and we have spoken before you, no more difficult, no uglier word. And when there's a bad situation in the judiciary we've been trying and we've chosen words, because we know how difficult it is, we know it wouldn't be easy if everything changed, it'd be a lot more trouble. By your actions you have destroyed the trust of the citizens of Serbia with you, destroyed it completely. You've put yourself on the side of the hacks, shown not only that it's possible to influence you, but that it's enough to do two TV shows and say something in two newspapers, you're going to have to appear immediately with an adventurous attitude. I can think that it would be about making judgments, about confronting the authorities in something where you think they're wrong or anything else. That gave a very bad signal to the citizens of Serbia, I must tell you, the MPs of the SRS. These people have voted twice in this assembly for something the government has also voted for. You were one case. The rest were all resolutions, declarations and other general acts related to Kosovo and Metohija. Then we somehow protected you from the will of those we call a thief's block, and they call themselves a democratic block. (Chairman: Mr. Wolf, please finish. I'm done, I'm sorry. I thank you for your extraordinary patience, Mr. Mihailovich. You're the right man in the right place. I'm sorry you're not in the SRS yet, but I expect you'll be in the right place soon and as far as that goes. So you've played those people's trust. Maybe it doesn't mean anything to you, but in the future, think about it, because if you showed that you wanted the other side to be heard, you'd say, "I'm sorry, there's no "Vojo Seselj, your wife is a whore" in this continuity. You've somehow thrown that out in contributions that last 10 minutes, where they've released everything and everything, they just haven't released what they've been doing, but there's nothing to do with that continuity. It's just that there's no continuity: "Miss Jovanovic, go meet somewhere else." You won't find satisfaction with me, because I'm a very strong and macho guy, etc. Yes, that's what the head of the MP group was saying that today is demanding a ban on the work of the SRS. We were so scared, we don't sleep from their threats at night, we don't know what to do with ourselves. And theirs, and yours and everyone else. We're not just gonna answer that way. There was a suggestion Saturday that we almost organized a rally in front of the Russian Emperor, and we refused to have a conflict, a riot, that there might not be a riot, because we would bring in a few tens of thousands of people and what they would do with a few people who would appear there. That's why we're asking for everything to go peacefully, okay, we're asking for patience from the citizens of Serbia, and for the elections, we're going to organize a pen and paper to beat you and replace you all here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-19-0.u28023	I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the day to vote on the motions for decisions, on contested proposals, and on all other undeniable proposals in general. We're done with today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
