ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. As Vice-President Mihailovic announced at the end of yesterday's work day, we will continue the debate in particular at 12.05 hours, but before we see if we can start the day now or within an hour. We continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 82 MPs, there is no need to determine the quorum. We'll start the day at 11:15. Thank you for your responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the electronic system to determine the number of MPs present in the hall in order to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. No MPs have been reported to be prevented from attending this session and notifying that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held at 11:45 p.m., in a small hall downstairs. Let me tell you, since the deadline expires at 12.05 a.m. for the amendments, we will continue our work at 12.05 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29104	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RADIFFUSION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Miloljub Albianić and Zoran Krasic, as well as by the Committee on Culture and Information. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 140(3), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29105	Mr. Markovic, I don't know what this is, but it seems to have a negative effect on the break. Nice Mr. Markovic announced, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and he refers to Article 34(2). The law, let me read you what it's all about. It refers to the provisions on funding of the Agency, and it is foreseen that the agreement on the financial plan is given by the Assembly, and the amendment and supplemental proposals require that the government give its consent. I will try to explain to you why it is better to agree on the financial plan of the Agency to be given by the Assembly, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before I start with reasons, I have to tell you that this law on broadcasting is a good part of something called public information. I must remind you that there is still a Law in this country on the selection of MPs, and in the general provisions of that law, the importance of informing from the point of view of the exercise of electoral law is clearly potent. One of the pillars of free thinking and expression of every citizen is to uninterruptedly obtain information that should be objective, true, precise and informative. Just to remind you that the Law on the selection of MPs provides for a special body, the Supervisory Board, which is responsible for preserving the free will of voters, including by preventing abuses in the field of information during the election campaign. Since the DOS came to power, the supervisory board has no longer existed, and the provisions are not applicable, and the Law on Broadcasting is applied in the area of jurisdiction of the Broadcasting Agency Council, so in these few rounds of elections for the past few years we have had the situation of the Broadcasting Agency Council addressing its statements, I would say and selectively criticise some media that not only violate the ban at the time of electoral silence but criticises the way in which some media report the pre-election activities of all participants in the electoral process. If this is an independent regulatory body, and I have to say that it was a concept in 2002 when the Law on Broadcasting was passed, and the financial plan of that institution depends on the government, then, through the impact on the financial resources of an agency, it has a considerable impact on the independence and independence of the broadcasting agency. If consent to their financial plans is given by the National Assembly, then it is a completely different situation, because you know yourself that rarely when the plan is returned to some kind of work, because the act of granting consent does not exclude the possibility of criticising the individual positions of the proposed financial plan, but essentially act favourably towards the broadcasting agency. It feels free within its responsibilities, and if this consent should be given in the future by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then their position to work freely and independently would be quite shaken, and evidence of that is also certain things that, when it comes to this government, are happening. So we have a situation that this government doesn't even recognise some of the laws passed by the National Assembly, it in the image and part of the man in charge of the funds, for spending the budget, very often knows that it reacts and that the guaranteed right does not exist, but people are directed to cut the grass off the highway and thus provide their existence and simply the level of enjoyment of guaranteed rights from the Constitution and the law depends rather on the position of the one who considers the budget to be his pocket, so when it comes to paying off something from the budget to be paid on the basis of the recognised right, then remember that it has a go in his pocket and does not pay off those funds prescribed by law. So we have experience of what it looks like when the government gives consent to something. If the broadcasting agency is independent, independent, it should preserve its independence in such a way that the National Assembly in the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure rather than the Government of the Republic of Serbia would give consent to financial plans. Because through the act of granting consent, the Government may have a considerable impact on the exercise of the competence of the Broadcasting Agency and therefore we have submitted an amendment, we are practically asking that the solution contained in the existing law remain, and that this Article 6 does not virtually change something that has long existed. I will take the opportunity to explain a few more things that make this bill quite pointless, but I would say that it is meaningless even in continuity. In Article 3. The draft law remains to be monitored by the Agency on its own or by the involvement of an authorised organisation. How can the authority, the right and the duty of an organization be transferred to monitor it? This is unrecorded in practice that's in our normative, so anything can happen. By amending Article 13. The draft law, by replacing the text, gives us a new text that the Agency is obliged to take particular care to ensure that the broadcasters respect all the conditions under which the authorisation was granted, especially with regard to the general programming standards prescribed by this law. You've had a chance to hear that such standards do not exist, neither in this law, nor in the sublaw. I don't know who could force some who had programming standards, so now they've lost them, like a transfer of trial from The Hague. Someone grabbed that right while he was interested, now there's no transmission, as if The Hague had been shut down and it wasn't. Then, in Article 5 of the suspension, and even on the basis of a criminal procedure, where the authority decides to suspend a member of its body, it is simply an impossible thing. There are interesting things. Now to clarify one thing about Article 10, it is not about the conditions of competition, but when a deadline is given for the start of the work of the broadcaster that got the license, Article 56 refers to the day after and it is not an integral part of the conditions of competition. Although there are both unrealistic and unprincipled conditions. A special curiosity is the process of withdrawing the permit, especially after this intervention, in the sense of the Amendment Law and the extensions of the Broadcasting Law, where the new position is inserted, i.e. one of the views is amended. The decisions of the Broadcasting Agency Council shall not be objected but may only be subject to the request for review of that decision, as the same authority shall consider and its decision shall be a final administrative act. It's the first thing, it's impossible for someone to have the right to appeal by appeal to the one who decided in the first degree. If it were a request for review, it would have some reason, however, there is no objection here. If the Council's decision to withdraw the permit is made by a two-thirds majority, it is indeed a question – and how most votes are decided by the Council when considering the objection, whether by a two-thirds majority again and whether it may not be like that – cadiya judges you, cadiya sues you, cadija haunts you, cadija does all things to you. Probably the legalists forgot about some postulates of legalism. There is no difference between the withdrawal of the permit, the termination of the permit and the ban on work. It's obviously the same thing. But it's not the same. There's a big principle difference. But you put it all in one, so when it's written that someone is obliged to do something right now, then it's not a deadline right now. Next, you're talking about the authorized person of the Agency who's supposed to conduct a procedure called the so-called. administrative enforcement of the final administrative act. I need to draw your attention, that person who would be authorized, the right not to do so on the basis of the ordinary "authorization" paper that someone gives him, but based on the systematicization and prescribed inspection tasks, with the authority to block these transmitters in this way, etc. A disaster from the bill. Of course, there's a nice formulation. I will always propose this law, since I will keep this law, call it during the election campaign, unless what you have proposed in article 14, and here's an example of why I'm going to call you. B92, Studio B and all these stations that are under direct control of the democratic bloc or three marketing agencies DS, with these young idols, Krstic, Saper and what is called, say – respect the ban on advertising of political organisations outside the pre-election campaign, and during the pre-election campaign to provide equal representation to registered political parties, coalitions and candidates without discrimination. Live and see, which media will implement this in a non-discriminatory, objective way. B92, Studio B and the entire system of local radio-television stations – which of course you did not include with this bill, and you know that there is an obligation for them to be privatised, but that doesn't matter, because you are preparing for an election campaign – if this is not respected, I ask you a question: who will make these media respect this decision? Proposers of this law? He won't. Proposers used the right to be promoters and to compromise even more once what is quite complicated, with obvious political ambitions, such as political ambitions -- we will not have direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, because they will win radicals, such as political ambition -- accept this elaborate that we do not have to arrest Mladic without further negotiations, because if you continue to pressure us, and we do not meet it, radicals are growing again. You've prepared everything for the day you plan to call the election, and all of this you wrote, if it has any political significance, will be misused, you know that and you do it on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29106	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Miloljub Albianic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. At its meeting of the Committee, a representative of the proposal adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, MP Svetlana Stojanovic, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 19th 2006 as the day for voting on all items of the session's agenda for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, starting at 13.00 hours. Until the vote, a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it is now scheduled to vote day, please first, before we move on to a statement in the voting day, to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Blagica Kostic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29108	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of 77 with regard to the convocation of the assembly committees has been violated. I have not been invited as a member of the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, as well as representatives of the SRS, to the Committee on Culture and Information, which was held today at 10:30. I will only read the part relating to this - notice on the date and agenda of the committee session is delivered to all MPs, parliamentary groups and the Government at least five days before the meeting of the committee. Exceptionally, a date and agenda notice may also be delivered within a shorter period, with the Chair of the Committee obliged to explain such a procedure at the meeting of the Committee. The information on the session does not even exist on the notice board. There's the other one from yesterday, and we have the one that's at 12:00. Another indication is that the 10:30 session was held, but it was not held at 12:00 because representatives of the board from the ruling majority had not arrived. In the end, I call on you as people whose definitions are primarily democratic, not to vote for the proposed amendments to the Law on Broadcasting, because the OSCE, as well as the professional public, appeared on this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29109	I owe the Rules of Procedure an explanation. The MP was already quoting the second part of his explanation, so I'll do it again. Therefore, Article 4 of the second sentence - exceptionally, notice of date and agenda - may also be delivered within a short period of time, with the chairman of the Committee obliged to explain such procedure at the meeting of the Committee. Item 3 – The debate at the committee session shall be held regardless of the number of members present. I get it. There was a quorum in that moment. So it's not that kind of remark. Are you satisfied with the clarification? Thank you. We're approaching the vote. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RADIFFUSION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, in principle. For 121 against one, five out of 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, 14 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 117 against two, it did not vote 9, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Miloljub Albianic submitted to the 10th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 115, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. At its meeting of the Committee, a representative of the proposal adopted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, four of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, in general. For 121 against one, five out of 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON ORGANISATION AND THE WORK OF THE SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to the decision-making decision on amendments to the proposal for a decision, and then on a proposal for a decision in general. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No 11 votes against 116, out of 127 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 111, 15 of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 117, 10 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting the motion for a decision on the organisation and operation of the service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs present. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. For 125, a abstentioned one, two out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Allow me to congratulate Mr Borko Krstic on his election as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council on your behalf and on my behalf. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE FOR SCHOOL Since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move to the vote, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the first session of the First Regular Session in 2006, on 3 April 2006, made a decision on the selection of 15 members of the National Council for Higher Education, or not to select one member of the National Council from the list of the University of Serbia. According to Article 10. The Law on Higher Education is foreseen for the National Assembly to elect 16 members of the National Council for Higher Education. The Serbian University Conference submitted a proposal to the National Assembly on 29 May 2006, for an unfulfilled seat of the National Council for Higher Education. As a member of the National Council for Higher Education, Dr Oscar Kovac, a regular professor of the Geoeconomics Faculty of Megatrend University, was proposed. We approach the vote on a candidate for the election of a member of the National Council for Higher Education from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian University Conference. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Oscar Kovac, a regular professor of Geoeconomics at Megatrend University as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. For 105, two abstentions, no vote of 20, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Oscar Kovac, a regular professor of the Geoeconomics Faculty of Megatrend, as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, a member of the National Higher Education Council in the election and wish him success in his work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic in 2006. (The session is over at 1400 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29110	THE 5th EXCELLENT SESSION OF 19 July 2006 (The session began at 14.00 hours. Predrag Marković, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Marković. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. There is no reason not to have a TV transmission, but it is possible that the network in the Assembly is disabled, this one through the operator, please check it out. It's already happened to us on two occasions. We'll check it out right away, and then we'll know. I'm sure we won't work if we do. The secretary will check it out. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 172 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are far more than 84 MPs present in the hall, which is necessary for the start of work. I have no notice of the prevention of MPs from attending the session. We're moving on to an explanation of the reasons for calling the session in a short time. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in the position of the first member of the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals of the law on the agenda as soon as possible, which, in their request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, have been established by 92 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for this session, which was called upon by 92 MPs, under Rule 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the fifth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Police Academy, submitted by the Government, 2. A bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations by the Serbian government. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of an important law on police academia, you have adopted a bill by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - 1 hour 36 minutes; the DSS - 1 hour 3 seconds; the MP group DS - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds; the SPS parliamentary group - 26 minutes 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and six independent MPs per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask, does the proposing representative, Interior Minister Dragan Jocic, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29112	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honored Vice President, the esteemed MPs, after the adoption of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Police has become necessary for the Police Academy and the School of Interior to coordinate the status, regime of work, organisation and study regime with new laws. As the Police Academy is established by the Law on the Police Academy, only by putting it out of force will it be possible to enter into force the government's decision to set up a Criminal and Police Academy, according to Article 40. The law on higher education. The reasons for the merger of two existing high-level police education institutions are in a bid to establish a more rational, cheaper and sustainable system of education for police needs. It is also proposed to pass this law by emergency procedure, since on 10 September 2006, according to the provisions of the Higher Education Act, the Higher School of Internal Affairs would stop working. As the termination of the Law on the Police Academy is a condition for the timely creation of conditions for enrolment of students at the Criminal and Police Academy for School 2006/2007. A year, we propose or suggest, and you have adopted, that this law enter into force the next day since its publication after its adoption. In order not to lose a year, this law needs to be put out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29113	I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Are there any reports? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of memberships in the International Financial Organizations and the demarcation of Financial Rights and Obligations, you have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - 1 hour 36 minutes; the DSS - 1 hour 3 seconds; the MP group DS - Boris Tadic - 43 minutes 12 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds; the SPS parliamentary group - 26 minutes 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPS MPs, two SDP MPs and six independent MPs per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I shall immediately provide you with information pursuant to Article 85(1) and (4). Today we will only work until the principle debate on item 2, since the first one is completed and there are no amendments to it, and at point 2, there are no amendments. After that, after the debate is over, we will approach the vote. Since you all know that work has been in place for six months, there will be no session of the Assembly by August 20th, so there will be no session until August 21st. At the same time, I ask if you agree, since I've allowed the proposer's representative until 16,10 hours to be absent, because I didn't know that you would be doing this effectively, if we could start the debate and then hear the explanation of the proposing representatives, and if not: yes or no... Since there's been word reports, I'm taking a break until 4:15. We'll work until the principle debate is over, and then we'll join the vote. [[After break – 16,20.]] We'll continue our afternoon work. Prior to that notification of the termination of the term of office of the Members of Parliament. You received a notice from the SRS that National MP Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic passed away on 24 May 2006 and a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88 paragraph 8. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament finds the end of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(1), point 8. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time on which it was elected MP Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic, elected from the SRS Election List - Dr Vojislav Seselj, on the day of his death, on 24 May 2006. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Thank you. We'll take a break so we don't sit till the meeting's over. So, break seven minutes, till 16:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29116	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the government of the Republic of Serbia has signed an agreement with the government of the Republic of Montenegro on regulating membership in international financial organisations and disseminating financial rights and obligations. As a duty in drawing up such agreements, it is the subject of ratification in Serbia-Montenegro's parliaments. Meanwhile, Montenegro's parliament has ratified the agreement, and today it is in front of you, before the MPs of the republic's Serbian parliament. What's the basis of the agreement? The basis of the agreement stems from the Constitutional Charter, which is that Serbia inherits membership in all international financial organisations, including the total quotas Serbia has in those organisations, and that Montenegro must itself seek re-integration into those organisations. That would mean next. The Republic of Serbia continues to join the IMF state union, with an overall existing quota of 467m special draw rights, equivalent to about 700m dollars. In this respect, Serbia continues its membership in the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. These are financial institutions where Serbia continues its membership with a full quota, and Montenegro, under the agreement, should submit a request for admission and provide funds for the payment of its quota. It's part of this agreement. One part regulates membership in international financial organisations, and the other part of the agreement concerns the delimitation of financial rights and obligations. As you know, in previous years, we have already ratified concession agreements with the former Yugoslav republics, where appropriate keys have been established for the division of the national bank's foreign reserves of former SFRY. In that sense, according to the key, Montenegro belongs to 5.88 per cent of those foreign reserves that we inherited from the SFRY National Bank. This agreement envisions that of the part that belonged to Serbia-Montenegro, 5.88 per cent is now being transferred to Montenegro, in that currency and in the form that Serbia has obtained. In other words, what Serbia inherited from the former National Bank in gold and Montenegro will receive 5.88 per cent in gold. What Serbia inherited in the corresponding foreign currency, according to how we got, Montenegro gains in the same currencies of 5.88 per cent. The amount transferred to Montenegro from former SFRY foreign reserves is reduced by $2.5m, as much as the Republic of Montenegro owes the Republic of Serbia on the basis of contracts related to two Belgrade and Podgorica airports in 2003. As for other important members in this agreement, this also regulates the issue of debts. In fact, Serbia-Montenegro's debts were split back in 2001, when we joined international financial organisations and during negotiations with the Paris Club of Trustees, so that this agreement, in fact, only verified what has been the case so far. Montenegro is paying off those debts located on its territory, and Serbia continues to pay off an external debt that has been linked to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and what has been established since 2001 in fact only continues. No one's taking on new obligations here. They are also shared in the same manner as the clearing claims made against the Russian Federation, the former Soviet Union. So, the agreement regulates financial rights and obligations and observes membership on completely two different levels and, on the other hand, the succession of the former SFRY. These are two separate points in this agreement. What is important is that we managed very quickly to make this agreement with the Montenegrin Ministry of Finance, i.e. two central banks made the agreement very quickly. Simply, the Constitutional Charter was applied in one respect, and in the other part the Treaty on Succession was applied in the same way as the other former Yugoslav republics. Since Montenegro has already ratified this agreement, I call on the MPs of the Serb assembly to also ratify the agreement, given that it is very favourable for us, we have inherited the entire membership. As for the division of former SFRY foreign reserves, we would have to give 5.88 per cent to Montenegro anyway, given that it is a joint reserve of the former SFRY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29117	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29118	Thank you. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that only the MPs of the SRS parliamentary group are interested in such things that are being discussed in this House, for information from the finance minister, the Republic of Serbia, because he just called us differently. We asked today not to start, or discuss this item of the agenda, to begin in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That meant we insisted that the debate be attended by the competent minister. Of course, we didn't just ask for it because we wanted the minister to see and that he said what he said here, which is essentially not about the essence of this agreement. We expected the minister, as a representative of the government, to give us some further explanations, because we know we're also reading what the minister read, we've read before him. Of course, we will also talk about this agreement, and about the circumstances in which the agreement took place and about the signatories of this agreement, etc. So, all that is interesting for both the public of Serbia and this parliament, which is likely to adopt, that is, a law on ratification of this agreement. Mr. Minister here said the basis for the adoption and signing of this agreement stems from the Constitutional Charter. I would also like to remind the minister and the assembly majority that the Constitutional Charter of this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has committed certain other things, more significant than those we are discussing today, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the assembly majority have completely disobeyed our obligations, i.e. the obligation of the Republic of Serbia after what happened in Montenegro. After the secession of the work of the Serbian people, thanks to Milo Djukanovic's regime in Montenegro, thanks to the support of the European Union and all what the representatives of the European Union have done to make this referendum valid, and you all know well how much doubt and what was behind the referendum, and what are the real results, but of course it is not the topic. The topic is this agreement, the topic of parties in Serbia, which apparently showed by their activities after Serbia-Montenegro's separation that we from the SRS were right when we spoke in pre-referendum time that the Democratic Party of Boris Tadic, and part of the parties in this coalition supported by the government of Kostunica-Dulic, also helped the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic. They showed it by their behavior right after the referendum. You know, some of them ran off to congratulate, didn't wait for an official announcement. We talked about everything before it happened, because we knew exactly what kind of policy the party's leadership was, above all, Tadic's Democratic Party, what kind of water policy, what kind of story they tell in Belgrade, such as in Podgorica, such as in EU and EU cities. Of course, it will all be appreciated by citizens in the next election. That is why, among other things, there is this assembly, to be heard by the MPs and representatives of the parliamentary groups, but what you said, Ministers, about the Constitutional Charter and how you boasted that you were able to make this agreement very quickly, that is exactly what concerns you, not only because of that folk proverb "which is quick and short", although it is also in this agreement, but because of the fact that you have skipped much more important things that you were obliged to do. You have not called from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to appeal to citizens who have had Montenegrin citizenship, who are Serbs and living in Serbia, and intend to accept the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, you have not responded. What legal law did you draw from the decision that such citizens of Serbia would pay ten times as much as other citizens? Is this your way of helping Serbs from Montenegro who live in Serbia? Also, apart from Minister Dinkic, no one from the government has called to explain to Serbian citizens, I think there are about 200,000 of them driving vehicles with Montenegrin plates, why the government does not want them to allow them to re-register under some normal conditions. Only Minister Dinkic appeared on the subject and insulted those people, as if they were guilty of buying cars in a state that was a state union, in fact one state, which in the meantime, thanks to Milo Djukanovic, Boris Tadic, the European Union and the work of the ruling coalition, and now these people, neither guilty nor debtors, must suffer. Those who do not have the money to pay those large taxes, as said by Minister Dinkic, will have to throw their vehicles to waste. You did not answer, but it is Minister Dinkic in its own way, the other members of the government, not when it comes to MPs of the recent National Assembly, whether and how much they will receive the salary, whether they will be treated as other elected persons, who have to and should receive the salary for a year, because they were, on condition, federal officials, the republican have the right to these salaries for a period of six months. You haven't even called to tell us what's going to happen to employees in the administration of the former Serbia-Montenegro community, do you know how many people it is, if anyone's taking care of them. They don't already receive salaries, they don't know what their destiny is. The most important thing is that here and some committees discuss who's going to move into that building, who's going to take a nicer cabinet, and what about those people who worked there yesterday, nobody cares. You are obviously not, Minister Dinkic, neither you nor the other members of the government did anything to do with what was the first obligation of the government of the Republic of Serbia after the secession of the Serbian people in Montenegro, and your first obligation was to present to this parliament a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Government and a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Ministries. Instead, of course, as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister as the most responsible, you took literally a coup by bringing two people, citizens of Serbia, to the government. One is called Vuk Draskovic, and the other is called Zoran Stankovic. What they're doing in the government nobody knows. I claim that no MP in this House considers them ministers because they cannot be ministers until they are elected in this House. Why did you let them sit in government sessions, Mr. Dinkich? Why do you let them pretend to be ministers in public with us and abroad? So they're not ministers. I am not saying that it will not be if it is the will of the assembly majority, but until it is discussed in this House and until they are voted in this House, they are not and cannot be ministers. It is unacceptable, Mr. Ministers and colleagues from the congregation majority, since you are currently in the O.R. has quite a number, as Mr. Predrag Markovic said in the afternoon session, says - we have quorum, there are even many more MPs in the O.R. than is necessary. That's really amazing. Of course, we know that according to your Rules of Procedure, it's enough to be the chairman and one MP, but that in that way MPs are directly expelled from the O.R., it's really amazing. In general, today's session and an appointment with a difference of five minutes, a vote in the previous session and the beginning of this session, and a two-hour break, and a two-hour break, and again a seven-minute break, nothing was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so it is no wonder that you gave us this agreement today for consideration and adoption. No one in Serbia's ruling coalition today is interested in neither the Constitution, nor the law, nor any regulation. It's so much the opposite of the law, the opposite of the Constitution in this House, the opposite of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it's really scary. All of you who talk about the rule of law and some kind of legal certainty are being denied every day, so that no longer a man can escort you, as you break the rules, from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what are your priorities when the collapse of the common state occurred? So, not all of what I've listed, which are really priorities. Yesterday we had here, it wasn't your ministry, we had a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly. It was now most important that, contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you vote two deputy secretaries, and the Rules of Procedure say that you can only have one, so that you vote to place some officials for five years, contrary to common sense and logic. Yes, because you've passed a very bad bill on civil servants' salaries. Then you expand some sections, sectors, to set up some of your people, so they don't get paid. You're doing it selectively again. You don't care about most government employees, you don't care about the employees of this assembly, who help us all in our work and who spend a lot more time here than most of the MPs who prepare us, at least technically, what we're discussing here. Of course, even though the government official accepted our amendment the other day to at least pay overtime, you have magically voted against the government's decision in the voting day. I am taking the opportunity to inform all government employees that, thanks to the congregation majority, they are forced to work overtime without being paid. What's your priority next? This agreement, which we are talking about today, for the sake of the public, I want to read that it is called - a bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations. So this is one of the phases of destroying the state, first of all the SRJ states, so this state community, and today, for what kind of statements the Deputy Prime Minister makes, is no better fate, unfortunately, neither is Serbia. I'm not going to say anything special about this agreement, or by members, but I'll only mention two or three members. As my lawyer, I find it interesting, Article 24, where it says that this agreement will be implemented in good faith, and possible issues concerning the application of this agreement will be settled in agreement and in negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. Mr. Minister and fellow lawyers, this is not the form in the law that can stand. The law cannot regulate that something will be carried out in the good faith, and there will be nothing to do if it is not carried out in the good faith. You say all problems and issues will be resolved by agreement and negotiations, and I ask you what happens if no agreement is reached, unless the negotiations give some result. In Article 25, you say, "The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro will not be responsible for any damage or consequences that third parties may cause in relation to the implementation of any provision of this agreement." What kind of third parties might be involved in a bilateral agreement? Who are the third parties, and what did you think, Minister, of this Article 25? You say this agreement will take effect on the day of ratification by the competent authorities envisioned by the constitutions of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, by the exchange of ratification instruments. "This agreement is made up of four identical copies" etc. I am fully aware and deliberately reading these last members of the agreement, so that the public of Serbia would inform that the agreement, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, was signed by Mladjan Dinkic, finance minister, and Radovan Jelasic, governor of the National Bank. We Serbian radicals have no confidence in either one, we are fully convinced that neither Serbian citizens have it. Despite all the shortcomings in the very text of this agreement, we are particularly concerned by the fact that in the name of the Republic of Serbia, in particular that we have not previously discussed it, so we have in some way obliged the signatories to behave in accordance with what this parliament has ordered them to do. Article 3 of this law states that the law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". In an explanation, it should stand for something concrete, just as Article 120 predicted. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but instead, the government here has convinced us of Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without any concrete argument. You say, "Secure the justifiable reasons for the early entry into force of this law, according to Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is necessary to create a legal basis for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations, signed on 10 July 2006. "The question for you, Minister, is this really an explanation or is the essence that this is done so quickly in connection with this action plan, which no one in Serbia knows anything about, that someone else dictates to us, corrects and corrects, and whether this is about 10 billion euros offered for the purchase of Kosovo, as Ivana Dulic-Markovic said, is this about what she said "optimistically price", because she estimated that 10 billion is "optimistic price" for the sale of Kosovo and Metohija. And given the fact that you're doing everything away from the public's eyes and how just here and there one of those you're pushing to make a statement, to feel the pulse of the Serbian public, we wouldn't be surprised if something so terrible happened. If Ivana Dulic-Markovic had said that as a party official G17 plus, it would not have bothered us too much, because we both know the position of your party, DS and others who don't care about Serbia, but when this is said by someone who is vice-president of the government, then it's really worrying. For us Serbian radicals, Serbia is first and foremost, and we will do everything, of course, not as in your slogan, dear colleagues, what is first for you is 10 billion euros as an optimistic price for Kosovo. So you put Serbia first, and we Serbian radicals really put Serbia above all else and above all else, and by all parliamentary means and by all means of law we will fight against you destroying Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29119	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29120	There's been a lot of comment here on some political issues, a little, almost nothing about the agreement, but I'm going to try to stick to the subject. You've asked a lot of questions that are not related to this agreement. Of course, I am obliged as minister to give you an answer as to why it is Serbia's interest to ratify this agreement as soon as possible. Because with this agreement, Serbia wins. We had two options. Or inherit 100% membership and quotas or share it with Montenegro. Instead of sharing it, we got everything, we got 100 percent. If we had shared, Montenegro had such a requirement in negotiations that it belonged to 5.88% of the quota, that's $42 million. We said, however, that according to the Constitutional Charter, those who declare independence have no right to inherit membership in no political and financial organisation, nor in the UN, nor in financial organisations. So, having made their own decision in a referendum that they want to be independent, they have to pay to join financial organisations. It is in our interest that as soon as the IMF declares that Serbia is the heir to this 700m-dollar quota and all the rights that come out of it, and Montenegro will decide tomorrow whether it will be able to pay 42m dollars to have the equivalent it had when it was in the former state community. What's far more likely is that the IMF will ask them to give much less, because that's less power territory. This is the problem of Montenegro, not ours, but it is Serbia's interest to ratify the agreement as soon as possible and to get membership for another reason, because all credits signed and ratified in this World Bank assembly cannot be realised in Serbia now until membership is regulated. It is simply a legal problem until this agreement is ratified, membership is regulated, all loans to schools, roads, everything this assembly has ratified so far about the World Bank stand. So, Serbia gets membership in four important international financial organisations, inherits total quotas, and on the other hand, we wanted to solve in the package what we would otherwise have to solve later, and that is the issue of the division of former SFRY assets in financial terms. It is simply that we have only applied what the congregations of the former SR Yugoslavia have already ratified, and these are concession agreements, where Montenegro has fallen 5.88% of what we have received from the National Bank of the former SFRY. So we're talking about those frozen foreign reserves. It also says in this agreement, what we get in liquid form will get them. What is not yet divided, some frozen funds are still standing in Switzerland and France, which is about 10% of the former gold reserves that were frozen during the sanctions, when we get, Slovenians, Croats, will also get Montenegro. As for issues that are not related to this agreement, it was one question why we do not inform the public. However, the MP said that I was going out with attitudes without others doing so. These days, an agreement on pensions and other matters important for social security should be concluded, where on the one hand, those working in Serbia will have the right to receive compensation from the Pension Fund of Serbia, although they now live in Montenegro. Those who have worked part of the life span in Montenegro will get that right, now live in Serbia, will receive money from Montenegro's PIO Fund. We have asked and the Montenegrin side has accepted that citizens of Serbia who have the right to do so do not have to physically go to Podgorica to raise pensions, but will be able to get through banking channels where they live. So by now, they've had to travel or give authority to a variety of things, now they won't have to, but they'll be able to raise pensions in housing. On the other hand, as regards other social aspects, we are conducting negotiations in the same way as already concluded an agreement between Serbia and other former Yugoslav republics. The basic principle is what applies to the Republic of Serbia, will also apply to Montenegro. Simply, there will be no less rights for the citizens of Montenegro. As far as car reregistering is concerned, I can see there's some initiative here, too. It's a very clear thing, and let's not fool the citizens. Customs also existed during the former state union. So there was customs between Serbia and Montenegro. We were essentially two separate economic territories, not by government or government of Serbia, but by the will of the government of Montenegro. You know for a fact that all the efforts of the previous government to harmonize these economic relations have failed. We had two separate economic systems with customs. Anyone who bought where other customs regulations apply, in Montenegro, so calling on your citizens not to know they lived in two countries, bought a car in one country, woke up in Serbia, makes no sense, given that completely different customs regulations in Montenegro and Serbia were before Serbia-Montenegro was separated. In other words, if Serbia would now accept to reregister these cars, it would mean that laws are not respected, regulations. So, all those who call for re-registration are calling for violations of the rules, and then it opens a dangerous precedent for anything else. If in this case we had a precedent, why not in another case. For example, why not ask for the possibility that all power transmission lines should be owned by private citizens living 20 kilometers in the area of these power lines. So completely different pointless demands could become meaningful if you have a precedent. Why did those who respected Serbia's regulations and paid customs, paid VAT, bought a vehicle with an eco-engine, and now those who did not comply with the regulations would be rewarded. It's just that it seems to me that it's an advocate for breaking the law. The government will always respect the regulations it brings itself, and those who suggest that it be broken, then we can imagine what would happen in other areas if they came to power. Well, fortunately that's not gonna happen, but I'm answering your question. So it's a pointless question, because all citizens knew there was a customs regulation in Serbia, Montenegro's customs code. Now simply whoever was working knew he was going to come under the influence of regulations, he went to the point that he was going to politically lobby to give in. If he gives in here, there's no reason not to give in anywhere else. Then you're not a government, you're simply an opposition. That's the difference between the government and the opposition. The opposition can only give empty criticism, and the government must enforce the laws and rule. As for the rights of parliamentarians of the state union, it is clear that Serbian regulations will be applied. As long as the MPs of our parliament are entitled, so will the MPs of the former state union. So, six months, same as our rule. The same goes for employees in the institutions of the former state union. We have some employees for whom there is a need. They will also work at the Ministry of Human Rights, which has now been taken over by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government as a special sector, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, and of course a good part of the former state community workers will be taken over. It's just that there are sectors that don't need to be. It's the Ministry of Internal Economic Relations or it's got a whole series of sectors where there's just no need for those people. The same rules applicable to workers in social enterprises will also apply to the administration of the state community. Under the Labour Act, severance from August 1st will be paid for all those who are technologically surpluses. It's simple why a man from the administration would have a more privileged position than workers in production. I think it's a very clear principle, and the Labour Act will be applied. As for Article 24 of the Agreement, which is mentioned here, which states in the agreement that it will be implemented in good faith, and any controversial issues will also be resolved in negotiations between Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, I do not see what is controversial. First of all, it's not a member of the law, it's a member of the agreement. This ratification law has three members, and one member contains 27 members of the agreement itself, which is signed. And in a legal sense, this member you have read, Article 24, is not a member of the law, but a member of the agreement, which is an integral part of the law. It is possible, therefore, that this is the case in the agreement, and there is no such provision in the law. Otherwise, I don't understand why anyone would object to all disputes being settled by negotiations. What's the alternative, to war? So, you may have been your disputes in the past, when you were in power, solving the war, but I'm not sure you've achieved any of the goals, and I'm not sure that anything good was right for our citizens. Furthermore, the question, that is not the question, is actually the action plan and Brussels. I don't know who is well-intentioned in Serbia, who is he who is well-intentioned in Serbia, who will not praise what Prime Minister Kostunica achieved in Brussels a few days ago. We have been praised by the European Union, we have received a clear European perspective and simply, only those who are unwitting can speak ill of this action plan. As for the alleged offers of ten billion dollars or euros for the purchase of Kosovo, if you are given such offers to radicals, we do not, we do not know about them, I do not know where you get such information, and I ask you to inform the public what it is that the SRS is, if it negotiates and negotiates, about Kosovo, because you say that Serbia comes first. I ask the following question, it's not really a question, it's a finding, it's proved in the history of our 15-year-old, whatever territories that you've been showing concern and interest, Serbia has lost those territories, and that's why it turns out that Albanians have done their only hope. Just don't defend Serbian interests anymore, because if you defend Kosovo, as you defended the Serbian Krajina and the Republika Srpska, it won't go well. However, you will not defend these interests, but this government that has a mandate to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29121	Just a moment, please, we have a different announcement, Serbia's interest will certainly defend those chosen by this parliament, it has been in the past, so it will be now. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralić, a replica, was first reported by MP Vjerica Radet, I did not follow the presentation, I suppose it was either a misread or personal. Please talk about the law, I don't see any reason to talk about the political past and the future right now. There will be an opportunity anyway, right here, and this institution is called, I warn everyone in Serbian, so it's called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, according to the Rules of Procedure, if you could give a precise answer. So it's clear to me that it's not possible to reregister the vehicle you were talking about. You know, there are about 150,000 of these vehicles in Serbia, and that's an estimate. There are associations, and this is what millions of Serbian citizens are interested in. So those who asked anyone to do that, they got the answer to that, but it's too late now. I'm asking you and I'm asking you to plead. Is it possible for these people to pay customs customs in a different model, to enter the value of customs duties into the tax base and pay the corresponding tax and then register vehicles in their own name? If that doesn't exist, then we're in big trouble. I'm not talking about reregistering without these two duties, and I'd like you to plead that out, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29123	It's not a parliamentary question, but please, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29124	There's a clear answer. All those who have a "euro 3" engine can pay customs and VAT and reregister it on Serbian plates. That right is completely open. So there's no problem and it's in accordance with the regulations. If they haven't paid by now, they can pay and reregister it. They cannot register it without payment or with lower payments than those prescribed by law. Those who imported a vehicle that is not according to the Euro 3 standards simply have no solution, but there are not so many vehicles as you stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29125	Here you are, Mrs. Radeta, a replica to the presentation of Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29126	First of all, Mr. President, we haven't lost our lives here and waited two hours for Mladjan Dinkic to give lectures to the MPs here and ask questions. He's here to answer the questions of the MPs. It is very interesting that when he spoke of breaking the law, he did not notice what a violation of the law was when Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic sat with you in the government. You haven't noticed how much you're breaking the law here, you who advocate law enforcement. Also, with great pleasure you talked about employees of former so-called. to a federal administration that you will declare a technological surplus, because you only enjoy such things and send letters to local self-government and state administrations to reduce the number of employees. The important thing is that you explained something that no one asked you, that the pensions would go through the banks, you just didn't explain to us if it was that bank -- you go in, you go out, you're done, you know that friend of yours Djelic that you first argued with on a TV show, you remember that -- don't touch my mother, and then you're back together, because you're doing very much of your investment jobs -- you get in, you get out, and you're done. As for vehicle registration, 200,000 vehicles are about Serbia and you say that we who advocate reregistering those vehicles, as you said, deceive citizens, and you, Mr. Minister, deceive and deceive citizens. And in time, you went out with a statement at one of your famous conferences, then you spoke about the judiciary, and then you remembered about the vehicles, that such imports would also be available on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We were one country back then. You cannot blame the citizens of Serbia who, unlike you, were convinced that Serbia-Montenegro was one country and such people were buying these cars, mostly poor people with little money, and therefore they had to buy those old vehicles, and it is not their responsibility that they fell asleep in one country and woke up in another, but it is the responsibility of your good work, and Boris Tadic, and your friends from the EU and, of course, Milo Djukanovic. As for your comments on how you advocate settlement of disputes, Mr Dinkic, you are not a lawyer, ask someone who is, is it possible that in some law, I will read again, that the agreement is being implemented in good faith, and that any issue concerning the application of this agreement will be settled in agreement and negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. And then you very boldly and rudely asked what we're up for, if we don't want to settle it in agreement, do we want to do it in war? We will not, Mr. Minister, by war, but we will in a legally regulated state, and we will not leave you with this Article 24 that will allow you to continue your criminal and theft activities, to invest in the realisation of this agreement, to stay with someone from Montenegro, and therefore you did not foresee the jurisdiction of any court, but Dinkic and Jelasic, on the one hand, Igor Luksic and Ljubisa Kragovic. It is difficult for citizens and Serbia-Montenegro if you steal money through your pockets as you are used to, and with this agreement you continue. So that's why you predicted that you would come to an agreement, and then you want to turn the story into another stream, and the bottom line is, I repeat, on the basis of this Article 24. Proposal for this law, you will be intruding, you will continue your criminal and theft activities and steal money from the pockets of Serbian citizens, as you are used to, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29127	Mrs. Radeta, I warn you and anyone who is metaphorically speaking to members of the Rules of Procedure, be kind. I said everything, you know what it means, there's no reason to explain it. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29128	Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the beginning of something, or the end of something that has begun to happen with the consent and nomination of this ruling majority. Since the creation of the state union, all this time has been formed in public and among Serbian citizens that Serbian citizens also have the right to an independent state. Those most propagated by the policy were Mladjan Dinkic, along with the first expert group, then with the party, and later with a company called G17. Later, among other things, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, headed by the yellow company. So many of Serbia's citizens spread their intolerance to Montenegro that Serbian citizens also wanted to be independent. That's the policy this government has implemented. I see that some of the ruling majority are applauding this, probably their programming, just let them come out so they can tell the citizens of Serbia or in election campaigns, not promise lies. As a result, there was that referendum in Montenegro, which again helped with its success, and Mladjan Dinkic, and Boris Tadic, and G17 and DS. Of course, they participated in all of this in an agreement with Milo Djukanovic. What happens next on the political scene in that recent period. There is a mix-up of the EU, and that is how we can see it only from the laws we have passed over the past few months, especially when they were laws on the granting of counterguarantees. Guess who we gave the counterguarantee to? We gave the counter-contributions to the state community, and at the request of the European Bank for Development, read further the EU and various financial institutions, again from the territory of EU countries. So, the assistance someone received from the EU was only given to Montenegro to gain its independence and to increase its political influence in this part of Europe. When I listened to the government's representative, Minister Dinkic, I was amazed at how many men he could; it was hypocritical that he had now come out for this speaker the finance minister and said that we are asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to comply with the applicable legal rules. The same minister, then governor, without any decision and against the constitution of the then-SRJ, acknowledged the secession of the former SFRJ republics as a succession. The same minister violated the SRJ Constitution, without anyone's authority, entered into negotiations over the division of the SFRJ property, made some kind of key, talked about how we finally got to our gold reserves, our foreign exchange reserves, and still not a single sentence said how much it was and what was the cost of giving up the legal continuity of that state. And what has arisen as a consequence -- there have been lawsuits, both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we gave up the continuity of the SFRY. Now they're waving lawsuits and large claims for maybe 20, 30 or 40 million dollars in gold that we allegedly got, and all of this has been done by breaking the Constitution. Furthermore, when it comes to cars, citizens are told that they were doing something to avoid paying obligations to the state of Serbia. Those who had money bought cars with so-called. The green engines, they paid those taxes, and the poor who are the most in Serbia, bought what they could with their money and these are the citizens of Serbia who are now suffering the consequences of politics and Milo Djukanovic, and Boris Tadic, and Mladjan Dinkic. The agreement was made by a man of experience, a bankruptcy manager of a former state, and is again in that role, so now shares the property of a state, the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro. However, apart from this financial piece, the distinction in financial international organisations, I would ask the minister a question, and what about customs rates on imports of agricultural products? As far as we know, these customs rates remained extremely low, and because of Montenegro. Low duty rates on imports of agricultural products directly endanger domestic agricultural production. There is no improvement for Serbian citizens if you destroy domestic agricultural production. I'd like to ask a colleague who's never seen the field throw away, at least while I'm at this pay phone, to come out and say it himself, right, Human? So what about these regulations and what about that story when Serbia acquires, that is, when Montenegro acquires independence, we will do this, we will do that, and the first thing you should do is ask the question of how to protect the citizens of Montenegro of Serbian nationality. Has anyone asked that question? Is that funny to you, too, and you claim that Serbia comes first? What you did first is either how to fill the budget from the situation, how to fill the budget, and that will be charged by charging a fee for enrolment in the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the first job this government has taken since Montenegro in one way secededed. So all this stuff that's written here is stories for little children, that something Serbia gets these. Nothing is going to get as good as it has been until now, and all of this is the reason why such an agreement is not good, I agree that all parties, when something is wrong, should agree on an agreement, but even when a most ordinary purchase contract is made, a pattern, determine which court is in charge of the dispute. In this case, Mladjan Dinkic will lie to his citizens, citizens of Serbia, and not to the benefit of the citizens of Montenegro, but to Milo Djukanovic, in order to keep him in power for as long as possible. Montenegro will still be able to import agricultural products from the environment without any problem and place them on the Serbian market, as there is no customs policy to protect the domestic agricultural producer. So before this law, before the ratification of this treaty, you had to commit yourself to far more serious things than this. This could've waited.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29129	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, and once again receive my apologies for not reacting immediately. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic. You've got 63 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29130	I don't mind if you stand. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in these 60 minutes, I will try to explain to you the scenario that was formed in February 2000 and how it has been realised for the past few years, known in the people as the period of the boom of democracy in the Republic of Serbia, known as the DOS government period in different variants. In addition, when I talk about the DOS or the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, you can interpret it as 17, 18, 19, 20 political parties, but you can also interpret it as a far greater number of entities, and I mean a whole complex of NGOs and media that are in charge of allowing brainwashing and adapting public opinion for something called the final blow. Of course, at the beginning I would also have to remind the public in Serbia, if there is a TV broadcast, because they should probably be reminded of what happened after that arson on October 5th 2000, after one of the experts with a black sock entered the National Bank of Yugoslavia, took over, another group with some other socks in customs, the third group, headed by Svilanovic and Covic, won the media, etc. Democracy came to us on a wave of fire, not as the flame of freedom, of light, but as the flame that turns on everything. There's been revolutionary justice, and that chronology goes about like this. There were elections for the Federal Assembly and for the president of the SRJ, and the Republic government fell. The first move by the newly-elected SRJ president was the order of Vojislav Kostunica to move forward with crisis headquarters. The evidence for that is their statements. The conquest of all companies began, so the porters became directors, the directors were kicked out. It started with the establishment of self-government, but not real self-government, but the foggy one, which should satisfy hate, but also create a place to do dirty work. The first stage was the request, without a decision by the federal government, then SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, as his friends from the United States told him that in January there would be big problems in the US elections over the election of President of the United States, that there would be a major crisis that would last for the United States, that it would be much better to end our entry into the UN in November and December. You remember that cheerful Svilanovic, he was present when one of our flags was raised, since we have such happy politicians at our disposal, and even some praise that they have become columnists of some trivial newspapers. We became a newly admitted state, forgetting that on May 1, 1992, a decision was made to suspend our membership. Of course, the second very important step in the decommissioning of the state structure, which has and how touching points with this bill, was to work on a succession. The work of academics Kosta Mihajlovic and the team that led to the negotiation of the truth, justice and protection of property and property rights has been announced. The group is practically remote, a new group has arrived, which has made an agreement on succession and, of course, there were the fingers of the one who won the National Bank of Yugoslavia with the sock. What is this conflict agreement? Very unfavourable, property, financial, but even more unfavourable in a political sense, because it is based on the findings of the Badenter Commission. I draw your attention that it was the commission that made the decision that the former SFRY had disappeared by destroying itself, falling apart, and not that someone on the outside had broken down the former SFRY, and especially the states that had used the weapon to carry out the secession, so they would have to lose any international legal protection, and if they had established any international subjectivity, it would have gone in a completely different procedure, with the obligation to settle obligations. I purposely mention the term of succession, because this whole agreement that has been offered by the system immediately, oil carrots, olly stick, Ollie Rehn, Olly Solana, Oli Mladja, Oli van der Dinkić etc., this whole agreement is based on mixed things two very important concepts in this area, which is secession and succession. I remind you that this conflict agreement, which has been translated into our language, an agreement that defines how what is an inheritance will be shared, how to settle the issue of legacy after the deceased, because the SFRY has disappeared, changed the aggregate state, became dead, left behind some legacy, so the heirs need to agree on what it will and how it will be, that this agreement was very unfavourable. Professor Rankovic, many prominent economists, including Oscar Kovac, did not order all the names, disputed one such agreement, especially when ratifying the agreement in the SRJ Assembly. Forced, with coalition agreements with all sides of Montenegro, I must tell you, that agreement has been accepted. The newly established republics of the former SFRY of course accepted all these agreements because it suits them, and what would be defined as SRJ would be entitled to 38 and some percentages to participate in the division process of the property, joint assets, inheritances. Why am I bringing this up? Because several members of this agreement mention the percentage and participation of the Republic of Montenegro of 5.88%. So it's something that's been prejudged at the beginning. I must remind you and I am a personal witness, during the 2000 election campaign in the Republic of Montenegro, Vojislav Kostunica was also visiting on TV, his first and basic statement and messages to voters in Montenegro -- all relations in the SRJ will be resolved as soon as I win the elections, there will be no antagonism, no political intolerance between the authorities of the Republic of Montenegro and the new democratic authority established in Serbia. It doesn't lie to the devil, and it was one of the great deceptions. The next, perhaps the biggest deception of the Serbian people, who still believed in democracy, democratic fluids and democratic capacities of those supported by the West and forced in Serbia, was the Belgrade Agreement. Just to remind you, Solana was present, and before that, Solana was blamed, and even convicted of war crimes committed in 1999 on the territory of the SRJ. With the air support of Vladan Batic and DOS, a complete, indictment against Solana and his dear friends, heads or ministers of the NATO Pact member states, all charges have been dropped and they have become model representatives of the international community, welcomed on red carpets, conversators, and even commanders of what needs to be done here. One of these orders was how to deal with the offices between Montenegro and Serbia, so-called. The Belgrade agreement, the big bench, has met to sign it. Just to remind you that the two people who signed the agreement in Belgrade said they had no idea what they signed. One of them is Zoran Djindjic, and the other is Miroljub Labus. Nothing should surprise you because democracy knows about these kinds of turbulence, from a little twist to total ignorance, even to the so-called. Salt of Mortal. So it began with talks on the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community and the formation of something under the Belgrade Agreement. You know, it's formed in a way. Almost half of the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were members of the Constitutional Charter Commission. The Constitutional Charter was passed, the Small Charter was passed, the Constitutional Law was passed to implement the Constitutional Charter, everything was regulated. And now I'd like to draw attention to some of the things that concern this bill. First of all, I have to say, everyone was saying that the Constitutional Charter solves all our problems. Of course, the document again proves that our problems are being solved. We in the SRS have always warned that what is done is not good, that it is not good, that Serbia will have great damage because of it and generally citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no matter where they are. Of course, no one believed us, there were always some circuses who turned the subject around, and then they ran away when there was to be a collision with reality. I'm not mad at them, that's their style. Citizens of Serbia, recognize the style of these parades and the protagonist of something called the chauvinist farce. Yes, today on the agenda is a chauvinist farce, directed by those who could even be called cousins. Why is it a chauvinist farce? The chauvinist farce is that Montenegro's independence and independence of those protagonists of the chauvinist farce were achieved in the referendum, presented here as the highest patriotic act of people from Serbia. They celebrated more than those poor people in Montenegro. Those poor people in Montenegro when they heard the results for three days were drinking, looking forward, and on the fourth day they put their finger on their foreheads and imagined what it was they did, who cheated on them, who stood up to themselves. These cheerleaders who laugh at the political scene, those who criticize others, and themselves make projects to create crematorium, those who criticize others, and they don't mind that their director of the Panchev children's care institution stole 10,000 meals for children, they don't mind. They care what the media says, that's the democracy, what the media says, who they spit out, who they stain. Of course, he always brags about hate speech, love speech, tolerance, and that of the most intolerant people. You see, the protagonists of that chauvinist farce are trying to convince us how happy we are, but we don't know we're looking forward to it. And because we don't know that we're looking forward to it, probably an illiterate man has been given the opportunity to write a column, and someone that falsely presents himself as an expert and is an expert, so much expert to tell people at age 55 -- so what if you're out of a job, go to Velja and you can cut off by the highway and do some community service. People who don't know what human rights are, what freedoms are, people who don't know what human dignity is, people who, instead of answering, say it's a rude question, it's a ridiculous question. No question can be as bad as it can be a bad answer, and the worst thing is when the one who has to speak doesn't even know how to lie, and then the defense turns into an attack, so it's the opposition that's now a surplus in the federal organs, the opposition that challenged the Belgrade Agreement, the conflict agreement, the Constitutional Charter and that Small Charter. She challenged everything when it was brought, and when it was brought, she asked the authorities to respect what was binding on us. Just to remind you, we have long had to have direct elections to elect MPs to the SCG Assembly. Of course, they were not held, not because the oligarchy in Montenegro didn't want elections, but what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia said -- well, let these people's mandate be extended, what we will have direct elections will be won by radicals. It's not my personal observation, it's not some sparrow whispered to me, it's a stand that's out, and it's the official position of the representatives of Montenegro, as recently something has happened in Brussels, probably some Gekna or who knows what else, but they've been doing the problem again. Because of the radicals, we'll accept everything, and even that, Ollie Ren, Ollie Solana, Olly-Oli. Of course, they're not radicals that are so dangerous that they're gonna have to make those in power accept all the worst things. They're not obliged to accept ugly things for their people, but they have a need to talk to each other, to present themselves, like that poor Dusan Petrovic, whenever he crosses the border to do some state talks, he says -- you have to support us, the way we are. What Velya said, let's steal a little bit, but you sing a lot, but you can't afford to deny us support from abroad, because then they'll come to power with radicals. It's some kind of radical bogey. It's probably the bogeyman that makes those who have a conscience problem and probably have other problems that they care about not being discovered at all. Unfortunately, today we will have to discover a major problem called high treason. We're on that ground today. See what can be used to convince the public that, when you put your hand in your pocket and remove 500 dinars, you should be happy that it was done, because the government representative here explained something, about, if the government hadn't taken 500 dinars from you, you would probably have taken Milo Djukanovic from you a thousand. That's not the point. The problem with this agreement is not that nature. The problem with this agreement is that those who swear by the Constitution, the law and regulations, and even make it their comparative advantage on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia, the most brutal gauze and regulations. You see, if logic or some analogy were to be applied, although it should be avoided, because it's always wrong, but if what this group is, with some democratic charge and a lot of coalition capacity, is always going to be in power as long as it can be pulled back, their reasoning regarding the two ministers at the level of the state community, when this decision was made here, is said -- no, they can't be ministers, but within 45 days it will define it. Who's gonna stop those two? They grabbed the poor people, immediately introduced themselves as ministers. If this logic is applied and the principle of so-called, as you have defined here, "state-owner and self-sufficient state", then there is another principle of international legal subjectivity, since Montenegro has left, remains some of the French of the state community, in the form of some institutions, those, according to the Constitutional Charter, belong to the Republic of Serbia, then we should belong to Svetozar Marovic, because he and Vuk Draskovic were in the same legal position. If Svetozar Marovic had come to us, then we wouldn't have had Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica or had two prime ministers. You didn't get this? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] That's why I told you to sit down. You're the only one who enjoys it. I'm just here because I'm well informed. You just remembered Velino: "Let's people steal a little bit, let's steal a lot." I'm not talking about it that way. You see how logic, applied by Loncar, Kostunica and those with a full coalition capacity, seems ridiculous. I really don't know why we shouldn't have Svetozar Marovic as Prime Minister. The resolution was applied to the decision adopted by the National Assembly here. Take it easy, you Vojislav Kostunica fans. This agreement is obviously contrary to the regulations that bind us, although leaving Montenegro from the state union and this reorganization of this territory, why not say both in constitutional and legal terms as well as in terms of status, practically the Constitutional Charter has ceased to apply. However, some of the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, which were deliberately incorporated into the Constitutional Charter, are left because it was known that the state union would somehow cease, and the very act establishing the state community is listed what will be done when the state community dies. It's a 60, and there's another one. Before I move on to Article 60, I would like to inform you that Article 65 was foreseen that "Member States will amend their constitutions or bring new constitutions to comply with the Constitutional Charter within six months of the date of adoption of the Constitutional Charter. “ That wasn’t what Djindjic wanted to do, he didn’t want to do either, he didn’t want to do Vojislav Kostunica, he wanted to do it, they all worked to break up the state community, knowingly, on purpose. Here's a story for the citizens, and in the part of the decommissioning. I don't know, probably Article 65, according to what's written, has chronically obliged us to do some things before, but what's stated in Article 60. Article 60(5) literally reads: "A Member State benefiting from the right of entry does not inherit the right to international and legal subjectivity, and all the issues in question are particularly regulated between the countries of followers and the country of independence". This is a member who can also be defined as a matter of secession, which by law or the Constitutional Charter is kind of prescribed, because the previous members are talking about a referendum and can probably be said to be so-called. Legal secession, predetermined how to do it. However, the right to international and legal subjectivity has been given here as automation. So that's pre-arranged and there's no negotiation. From the very text of the Constitutional Charter, it stems. Since this happened, probably these two letters that went away, the president of the Republic and the president of the National Assembly, who were informed by international institutions that the case of Article 60(5) had taken place, is sufficient for so-called. international and legal subjectivity. This international and legal subjectivity can have more aspects, it can also have sports, financial, economic, purely political, etc., but it is regulated. These papers, which went to international institutions, have only found that something has happened, and international institutions have been informed and the issue of international legal entity has been resolved. We don't have to decide today. We can't decide that. It's over. What do we have to decide? All issues in particular are regulated between the member states and the country of independence. In that sense, any place that says "Republic of Serbia" should stand here as a "member country". Any place the Republic of Montenegro stands should be a self-restrained state. That's what got away. How has the text of the agreement been made? The text of the Agreement has been made in accordance with Article 60(6). Let me remind you, that's the attitude that speaks of conflict. We're not on the field of succession. We're in the field of attitude 5, which speaks of secession, legal secession. All mentioned in paragraph 6 is contained in this Agreement and there is an error. This had to come back, this is from the view of constitutionality unconstitutional. Here's proof of that. He says: “In the event that both Member States are declared in a referendum procedure to change their state status, or independence, all issues, as in the case of the former SFRY, are regulated in the succession procedure. “ So, the conflict agreement applied here is more likely to be applied only if, on the same day, there have been referendums in Montenegro and Serbia, and a decision on independence has been made in Montenegro and a decision on independence in Serbia. It is then based on the principle of regulation of mutual relations on the principles of succession, which is covered by the concession agreement. This was published by us in the Official Journal of the SRJ, the international contract number 6 of 2002, which is the agreement where the republics, which in the meantime became independent states, from the territory of the former SFRJ, regulated mutual relations on property, property rights. As you can see, those who negotiated on June 13th and 28th this year, first in Belgrade, then in Podgorica, in the text of this agreement, they even missed the topic. They discussed and made an agreement on the principles of the Badenter Commission. They agreed in line with an international act on the succession of the former SFRY, and could only do so if it was a situation that Montenegro and Serbia held a referendum on the same day. The fact is there was no referendum in Serbia. No one normal in Serbia would even ask the question that Serbia-Montenegro stand out and split. Since the issue has only been raised in Montenegro, then the 5th position says -- the country's successor to Serbia, a self-restrained state of Montenegro. Based on this, it is not difficult to conclude that the protagonists of the chauvinist farce from one republic and the other republics and these cheerful patriots made a mental mistake, so here one comes out to us and says - Serbia is benefiting, we need this issue to be resolved quickly. If this issue is not resolved quickly, we cannot withdraw funds. Mr. Arsic came out, who has been following it for years, how many counter-guarantee laws were given here as a condition that Serbia could draw some water, sewerage, mines and who knows where they were taking and borrowing. It's not like it's up to you now. Our international and legal subjectivity and membership in individual organisations is regulated by letters sent by Boris Tadic, Predrag Markovic and Vojislav Kostunica. If they've been informing anyone. They have informed that the situation in Article 60 of Position 5 has taken place that the Republic of Serbia is a member of the country and that it assumes all rights and obligations on that basis. This is where the other part of the story comes in. You just had a chance to hear it. I think the other part of the story is much more serious and honest, if it could be defined as the insistence of the Republic of Serbia to take the one plane of the Council of Ministers of the State Community at all costs. Nothing else. On which other rights and obligations and property rights of Serbia are kept accounts. Don't worry about today. A few days ago I told you between 2,000 and 3,000 there are disputes with an international element where the state union is being sued as a legal follower of the SRJ, and perhaps the SFRY, it doesn't matter. Heavy international agreements, with several tens of millions of euros, on how many claims are identified. How does the Republic Public Attorney behave? I'll have two employees do it. Who's gonna take care of property rights? This Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Public Advocate, this Milan Markovic, as they call him, whom no one can control, and once the DSS, once DS, once G17 plus, knows which party. He has the right to receive two of his officers, let these others from the federal community drive everyone away, and those people have been protecting property and SFRY for years, and the SRJ, and the state communities, and now they would protect the property of the Republic of Serbia. They don't care about that. This government doesn't care about that. They prove it every step of the way. To them, it's more important to cram some newspapers, to be columnists, than their members steal several thousand meals for their children. Of course, no one can talk about it. Even Panche's buzzing. They even bring a woman a Democrats from Zrenjanin, buys a car to be the director of a home for sick children in Jabuca, because there is no such one in Pancheva, but it is a democracy, a democratic bloc, a coalition capacity. The coalition capacities are impoverishing this country. They stole the citizens. We're in charge. Who knows how much of what's in charge has gone into his private pocket or what he said to the bear, he says, "Oh, man, I understand you're stealing a little bit, but you're stealing a lot." It's our political scene. That's the kind of power we have. They're not my statements, they're your statements. Not you present people in the O.R., but yours in terms of power. There comes a man, and he is appointed a representative of the government, and he says that what you object to, the radicals, the member of the 24th of this agreement, is in the agreement, but it is not the law. That poor guy didn't even read the law. Article 2 says - the text of the Agreement reads; the agreement has been translated into one member of the law and the whole agreement has become a law. Where the poor guy doesn't know what to do. He means if she burned the paperwork that made him normal. It can't be like that. The possibilities are inexhaustible for a democratic bloc to stall, as Verica said, to come in, come out, and you're done. You're a finished citizen, you come in, you go out with a democratic bloc, and you're done. You saw for yourself where they took to regulate - the burns. No more. Great, the newspaper starts chewing, and flirting and far-reaching thinking, ending, running the state care of the cobayage, as it were, just writing down their personal accounts, etc. It's a democratic block. Of course, we need to talk about the agreement, he says - vehicles, how now someone's complaining that he can't register a vehicle. The lady said -- those people believed in the community of the state, you said we believed in the community of the state. You have made the Constitutional Charter, you have written the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitutional Charter, you have set the deadlines in which the regulations should be agreed, you have said that we are going towards the community, you have criticised Cedo Jovanovic for not knowing that he was negotiating the harmonisation of customs rates, which was a condition for some accession, who knows which accession. When Chris Patten was, a man crossed himself, he said, aman, this representative of Serbia-Montenegro, meant Cedo Jovanovic. He doesn't seem to know that we get baptized every day when we see him, but well, the media is free, especially his. You made citizens believe in the state union, you accepted the euro as a means of payment in Montenegro. You gave consent to the customs of Brodarev, you did everything you could to break up the state, but why didn't you tell the citizens right away, you know what, we're acting now, otherwise we're going to tear up the state, that state community. You couldn't say that, because it didn't suit you, it's about like Bogdanovic. When it was the mayor's election, someone attacked him for an apartment, I think it was Branka Bosnjak, and he says, "No, I'm just doing it, I don't have it, and a month ago, a man moved into that apartment, and they ask him, wait, did you move in, so I did, so he says, when it was a campaign, did you have that apartment? I did, but I felt it wasn't good and it would be bad for the election if I confessed. What's the difference between Bogdanovic and you? So maybe in the size of a pair, squares, but that's irrelevant, because there's no principle difference. He says they didn't believe in Serbia, they believed in the state community. And what did they want to believe? Just to remind you, Zivkovic's government has brought here a law on conditions and ways of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the ordinary majority of the constitution has changed, and the Constitutional Court has stepped it back, and some who have been in this assembly and then have criticised all this, although they voted, but have criticised it after all. The citizens had no reason to believe, and your every message was honey and milk, your every message was, it's over, just so it's gone, the red-and-black coalition is gone, everything's going to be okay. So, for Kosovo and Metohija as soon as the DS comes, Kosovo and Metohija is not a problem, remember how the Wolf cowarded here on June 10th -- we, the United Nations, care for Kosovo and Metohija, the United Nations will guard Serbia, the great day, as he said epicly, like Micko Albianic, have the same intonation, as if they were born brothers. And now, no, it's out of the question, as the Serbian Guard, the Serbian Army, this, that's what this, but no, that's what I've been saying, he's been charged, he's being charged, you inform him, he won't be able to avoid, so Carla's got him for what little stuff is left, so to finish this dirty work. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dear neighbours, and you who support, and you who do not support, and you who criticise, once with law, and sometimes you are wrong, but all of you citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be familiar with this painful truth. Think about when you were wrong, when you round up the regular number in front of the letter "d" in the name of some from the democratic bloc, you make a mistake, difficult and painful. You're going to lose your job, and you're going to get a little retirement, don't even think about how much that pension is going to be, because it's going to be small. And then some expert will come and say, "cut the meadows, what's your pension for, 'cause with him it's easy, he doesn't blink when he says it." He's turning it around for a while. Does he commit, whether there are any rights, who should take care of those rights, who needs to meet the obligations, no, it doesn't exist as an interest. So the member is wrongly given, and then, of course, everything goes wrong. It is said in Article 2 of this text of the agreement -- the key to the distribution of financial rights and obligations was established on the basis of the participation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro in the gross social product of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia between 1994 and 1998. These are three years and the ratio is 94.12% for the Republic of Serbia and 5.88% for the Republic of Montenegro. In doing so, I must remind you that, regardless of what is written in Article 2 of this Agreement, just now during his discussion, the Government's representative said that this percentage is something that was used in the conclusion of this multilateral agreement of the former republics, which was agreed in 2002 that the remains of the SFRY, in line with the conclusions of the Bandether Commission, would be distributed to equal honors. Furthermore, earlier, the minister made a mistake when he talked about Article 11, because he said there were two airports, but not Podgorica and Belgrade, but Podgorica and Tivat, but he was under some gas to leave as soon as possible, as he was uncomfortable with taking bills here. If the contract was concluded on 5 March 2003, it corresponds to some of the dates when the Constitutional Charter came into force, approximately that date, and then $2.5m was the price reached in trade between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Public Enterprise of Montenegro. I'm really interested, is it possible that the government of Montenegro didn't pay six years 2.5 million dollars? Why didn't she pay $2.5 million and what our government did to take advantage of it during the negotiations? Is there any interest obligation, I don't know, it probably exists, because 2.5 million dollars in March 2003 and 2.5 million dollars today are not the same. That's why there's interest, so it doesn't lose value. It's a matter of time before the inflation's done something in the meantime. How it is possible that the democratic government of Montenegro did not pay with a democratic dollar to the democratic government of Serbia, because I am simply surprised that, because among democratic authorities, it is perfectly normal for others to cheat or build on, as someone said, it is probably the latter, they build on it. I know very well what the combinations were in 1999 and 2000 related to Montenegro, who went to drive the box, how the money was divided into equal honour, little Milo, little director of DS, and little of the deceased, as it went to Milic, and from Milic after that to Romania, as it traded with electricity, all of this was recorded. Democrats, enjoy it, it's neatly archived, so when the moment comes, it will be removed from the drawers and given to the competent state authorities to see if there is any reasonable doubt there either. As an eyewitness, I can probably serve as some kind of evidence and make a small contribution to the truth and justice coming out. But I don't matter either, there are papers, and it's pretty much, so I'm not needed. So, the democratic government is cheating on democratic power. It comes about as something normal. Now, at the very end, no problem, I can go on and on, I can see that you like this, no problem, I keep reminding you, I count on some of the consciences being left and waking up, but I don't get angry and I don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29131	Don't rush, Mr. Krasic, you've got 18 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29132	Mr. Mihailovic unfortunately suffered a major criticism completely unnecessary because of me, and you showed by voting that Mihailovic and I were right. No matter who voted, you showed that both Mr. Mihailovic and I were right and that everything that had been blasphemed for a month, that there was a "drunk midwife" just because that day I was informed that I was going to The Hague to be the legal representative of Vojislav Seselj, in a completely different dispute that had nothing to do with The Hague. But those who attacked me, they heard it, and then they made a noise, did everything and everything, introduced me as the great anti-fascist, the largest anti-fascist in Serbia in the negative light, but you can see it coming back as a boomerang. But that's your problem. Consciousness is a dangerous thing, you take care, she wakes up eventually, so she wakes up even with Milos Miniæ, and you follow the Ravnog movement hope that you understand my message. Even his conscience woke up, though he was quite old, because he knows what he did during his life, how many wicked things he did, and you who guard his daughter and send your members to run her NGOs know what it is. Of course, I have no intention of touching anyone's family, but that family has already become historical. So, as I've already quite convinced you, this agreement is based on the wrong attitude of Article 60. He had to have the basis in attitude 5 and not in attitude 6. The very fact that the basis for this agreement is in position 6 says that someone very skilled, even when making the Belgrade Agreement, designed this kind of succession, that in the meantime many details of property rights are regulated, that I do not remind you of military property, about some other obligations. I am simply surprised that in a comprehensive agreement, this is a partial agreement, with a broader interpretation of this article it is possible to conclude that a series of agreements between Serbia and Montenegro that would settle issues is needed, and there is somewhat a minister of law, pensions, health care, property, property rights, citizenship. But I think you misunderstood Mrs. Verice Radet when she spoke about her employees, because you could probably have influenced the Government of the Republic of Montenegro by some similar agreement to take over a number of employees from the state community institutions. Not just the ones that are located there in Montenegro. They can't make a deal because they can't share people as well as they can share nice money, that's totally logical, but I need to draw your attention that many questions need to be settled. I believe that the property rights of the Republic of Serbia are not properly verified by this agreement, because attitude 5 speaks of the international legal subjectivity of the states-members, it is the Republic of Serbia, and you know it when those who have brought the Constitutional Charter were themselves praised, they have rightly stated that this provision is a very rigorous dam that prevents self-will, exit, destruction of the state community, and if an act of secession happens, in accordance with these limits that are given here, then international and legal subjectivity, which should not be interpreted only by membership in political organisations or in terms of Serbia's continuation to take over the obligations of Resolution 1244, but also in other respects, is reflected in an unfavourable way towards which the secession takes place. Of course, this agreement did not happen, this agreement was provided and that it favoured the position of the Republic of Serbia towards those in power in Montenegro, and that it favoured the evidence itself because this agreement is also based on the principles of a conflict agreement made with other countries that have been created in the territory of the former SFRY. And those who boast that they've accomplished something epochal simply can't prove it. Were they able to achieve something better in the negotiations, I'm absolutely sure they could. Why not, I couldn't give you a precise answer, I can only guess, I can reason, because I'm richer for some experience, because for two and a half years I've known what these guys are doing and how they're doing, and what their tactics are -- the cabbage is looking at the meat, I guess it's clear to everyone, recognizable. I am taking this opportunity to propose to the chairman and president of the National Assembly an urgent amendment to our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly or possibly to pass a law that would prescribe the procedure and way of concluding international agreements. I do not dispute that this is a standard form, that the government, as a nominal institution of the executive government, is leading foreign and internal policy, and within the framework of foreign policy, concludes appropriate agreements, which, of course, only take effect by means of a ratification act in the National Assembly. But in Europe and the world, the practice in this regard is changing that it is not only enough for a platform for negotiations by the executive authority, but also for communication between the executive and the National Assembly that is ratifying, so that the National Assembly does not come before the final act in order not to ratify some agreement essentially offends its own state. In order to avoid this, many countries have prescribed another procedure, that the very course of talks on an international agreement is available to the National Assembly or the authority that needs to ratify, that the National Assembly also has its own suggestions affecting negotiators from our country what to pay attention to, under which conditions the National Assembly is willing to ratify a certain agreement, and only in that two-way communication do MPs conclude that they do not vote for something that is an international contract, thus insulting their own state, but also the executive authority in some way preventively controls themselves so that they do not knowingly go into something that is bad for national interests, and then, in another way, exerting pressure on parliament that they too must fail to ratify the state, citizens and people in this territory. That's why I'm asking you to accept these appeals with the reserve, quickly, urgently. Many issues are not arranged, regulated. There's probably some agreements coming up. But knowing the mentality of this coalition capacity, many of the issues that are certainly open and controversial will not come before the National Assembly. It is important here that this international and legal subjectivity for these financial matters be regulated in some way. I must say that he has already been regulated with letters from the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly, who have informed the international institutions that the case of Article 60(5) has occurred, and all that goes here is about the next position, which is reflected in the principles and spirit of this charter and everything you promised to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when you ran for the elections. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia must not forget not only what you said, but all the actors on the political scene what they say and what they promise, what they swear, especially this oath regarding respect for the Constitution and the law. If the oath still stands, then inform the Prime Minister that, by the logic of the matter, as two ministers passed, he could and the chairman of the Council of Ministers have crossed over and told him - Mr Kostunica, move, I came, what to do. Shami couldn't because he was the National Assembly, we wouldn't even let Markovic know. We'd defend him here at the door if Shami didn't come in, let's tell you. They'd defend it, because that doesn't apply to it, you should know that. But the fact that you have something against Mr. Markovic, I think you should talk to him, not to me, I'm not his representative here. He was with you in the parliamentary group. He wasn't with us. If he were with us, he'd have 100% protection, but he's at your place saying he's still in the MP's group, and I'm just surprised you're attacking him like that. Something happened here. Mr. Markovic, if you follow the transmission up at the office, you know these G17s of yours summon the Shami, they seem to be. Something Markovic messed up. So three things are very important. I think that this proposal for amending the Rules of Procedure too, so that the state does not get confused with non-serious agreements which, at this stage, those who support the government have no intention of returning to work or rejecting, but it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure, because this agreement is not in the right way to verify not only our interests, but what is based on truth, justice, on documentation, evidence and many other things. I'm not going to open any themes on purpose. I'm familiar with some very specific provisions and specific figures. I don't want to open this topic either because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of those people in Montenegro. I don't think it's a good deal, I don't think the agreement is in line with the Constitutional Charter, and no harm will come to the Republic of Serbia if this agreement is returned to a kind of improvement. In these two negotiators representing the Republic of Serbia, I don't trust and I don't have the obligation to believe in them, because on x-pislon examples they proved all the worst. Let's remind ourselves, that's the governor who wouldn't sell that mansion he bought on loan. Let's remind ourselves, it's this gentleman who doesn't respect any laws, absolutely none, he's the law. I know, when politics is interrupted by people, the razor sabers that go to the public with one picture, the negotiations are smaller than the mac and they accept everything and everything. Those international negotiations lead through the system -- tell the gentlemen what we need to do, and not -- gentlemen, we have the papers, we have the evidence, our interest is that. It's not van der Dinkic, it's Mladjan Dinkic. If it were van der Dinkic, then he would have talked like that Van der Liden, who gave a lecture the other day, until he came across a rusty chest called Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29133	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. Since the National Assembly held a debate on the agenda points of this session, and since neither until the beginning of the session nor until the opening of the principled search, there has been no amendment, there is no need for a search in detail. According to Article 85(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 19th, at 18.45pm, as the day for voting on the agendas of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29134	Ladies and gentlemen, my comment concerns the ruling majority. I suggest that you today, before the start of your annual vacation, bring one regulation to abolish the Constitution, all the laws and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You obviously don't need that, dear colleagues. What will the constitution do when it is violated at every turn by the Prime Minister, and by the members of the Government and the President of the Republic, what will the constitution do if Ivana Dulic comes out on Art TV and says that 10 billion euros is an optimistic price for the sale of Kosovo and Metohija, and Dinkic just tells us - he does not know whether they are euros or dollars. What do we need laws, ladies and gentlemen, if you are seated in the Government by Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic, citizens who have never been elected? You haven't heard, Mr. Aligrudic, because of you, I repeat this. What will make us, ladies and gentlemen, laws, if we still have no resolved questions, let's say, robberies at Belgrade Airport, the problems of Janjusevic, or the court disputes of Janjusevic-Kolesar, if we do not have a solution to the court dispute between the Mentionar Popovac. I remind you, it is the cementary visited once a month by Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic, who is again the lady whom these from the thief's bloc, Djilas, Tadic and Sutanovac, as they announced the other day, to lead through Serbia, to convince Serbian citizens not to vote for the SRS by the authority of their late husband, but I don't know if she will make a note that, when she visits, she has inherited from her husband a portion of Opovac's body and that for that reason, she will once a month visit that cementary. We also don't need laws if we know that Boris Tadic's car tires cost more than 50 parliamentary salaries, these are some special armored tires, they have to change once a year, and on that car that drives Tadic and the one that goes ahead and the one that goes behind him. In the end, which is why I came to you, my fellow Members, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when no one respects him, when he is not respected by the President, nor by the Chairman, nor by you fellow MPs. Let me just tell you that today's debate, to remind the public, at 11.55 is scheduled to continue yesterday's session, at 12 a new session has been scheduled, said 12:30, and started at 13:45, we were waiting for Dinkic. Now, the most brutally possible violation of the Rules of Procedure is if you accept to vote, because according to Article 140. Rules of Procedure of Rule 3. We have just completed a principled search, which is referred to in Article 2 140, and Article 3 says - from the completed principled search to the opening of the draft law in particular must take at least 24 hours. Item 4, my fellow Members, read, I assume you know how to read, consult a few lawyers, my dear colleagues, Article 140's position, says - in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of the draft law in particular, competent committees can submit amendments to the bill. This means that these 24 hours from the previous position must be left to the committees in charge, because no one here can throw beans and predict whether the committees in charge would submit any amendments within 24 hours. So, Mr. Mikhailovich, you don't have to bother answering me, I'm telling you, this is like this, I'm telling you, you're breaking Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and do not answer me at all, but in that day of yours, it is now an hour to vote, please and plead for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29135	Mrs. Radeta, I'm not really going to answer because I think your claims are unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-07-19-0.u29136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since July 19th, 18.45 p.m., has been set as a day for voting on all points of the fifth session of the National Assembly's extraordinary session, I ask you to determine before the start of the vote whether we have a quorum. I ask Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I am putting the draft law on the termination of the law on police academy since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, and I am voting on the draft law on the termination of the law on the Police Academy, in principle. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I'm putting the motion for a law on the termination of the Law on the Police Academy. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the termination of the Law on the Police Academy. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of memberships in the International Financial Organizations and the demarcation of Financial Rights and Obligations since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations, in principle. For 130 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations, in general. For 130 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted a bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on the regulation of membership in international financial organisations and the demarcation of financial rights and obligations. We're moving on to a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 19 July 2006, at 18.40 hours, pointed to a violation of article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 122, there was no vote of 8 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Now three notices. First, according to the National Assembly Decision of 5 June 2006, it was necessary for a whole series of state authorities to assume certain powers, or deliver within 45 days, which will certainly happen, legislative proposals on the takeover of competence. In contrast, although the Assembly will not hold meetings from July 20th to August 20th, it will certainly be necessary from the moment the legislative proposals arrive, and they will certainly be sent within the legislative deadline according to the Parliament's decision, July 20th at the latest, that committees in the second half of August consider these proposals, give any suggestions and preparations for the session, and that the preparations for the other bodies to prepare their legislative proposals, such as the Law on the National Assembly, so that one session could be scheduled at which it would be possible for all of what you as MPs to vote and implement within the legal deadline. Secondly, according to the July 19th Assembly's decision, which takes effect tomorrow, it is necessary to reorganise and prepare, as last year's session hall was prepared, in order to continue work, a whole series of rooms, including by decision of the June 5th Assembly and the Serbian Government's regulation, to also prepare the takeover of the property and space of the building located on Nikola Pasic Square, number 13, which is of course not enough to resolve the issue of additional premises missing from this assembly, but that is the first part. Compared to that, on Sunday, which is the third notice, you who do not travel on Sunday 23 July, as a symbolic act of the start of the redecoration, at 10.00 p.m. will be erected on the masts solemnly and a flag standing outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the committees in charge will have to make a whole series of decisions in the meantime, but I hope that after such hard work and the fact that you have passed 258 laws for your country in this session and about these decisions, you will manage to act together in good time and responsibly, so that we can all assume our responsibilities, and I also hope that you will have an understanding of your families to rest a little bit, and certainly after August 20, you will see each other. Let me wish you, those who can rest for at least a dozen days with their families, a pleasant holiday. Good-bye and good-bye.
