ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28024	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Blagica Kostic. According to the Rules of Procedure, for technical reasons, a consultation break of up to 10:30. I thank you all for your responsibilities. [[After break - 11.15.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after the break in which the consultations were completed, we continue the work. We have determined that today's session is not attended by the People's MP Blagica Kostic. We move on to a proposal to put on the agenda of the acts under emergency procedure during the session, in accordance with Article 162(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is, on the basis of Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the agenda of this session be put on the agenda - a proposal for the election of members of the Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 June 2006. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I agree that the conditions for the National Assembly to be heard about this proposal have been met. I put this proposal to the vote: for 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL FOR THE MEMBER OF THE GOVERNMENT You have received a proposal from the Prime Minister to elect members of the Government: Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic for Deputy Prime Minister and Goran Zivkov for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Does the Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, want to explain the proposal? Here you go. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28026	Dear MPs, by proposing that Ivana Dulic-Markovic be Deputy Prime Minister, and Goran Zivkov, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the government's team, as is easy to see, is essentially not changing. I remind you of the fact that during the government's election, this assembly expressed its trust in Ivana Dulic-Markovic as Minister of Agriculture. In line with the coalition agreement, I propose for the Deputy Prime Minister, since this place belongs to G17 Plus, Ivan Dulic-Markovic. As far as Goran Zivkov is concerned, there are no fundamental changes. Goran Zivkov on the current government team, to remind me, served as an assistant minister of agriculture. I stress this because all of this points to the continuity of the government's policy so far, and I hope that these changes will make it even better and more efficient. But since both candidates, for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, are moving into the same portfolio, I would like to point out in a few words what has been done on this plan so far when it comes to the agriculture sector. I would like to remind you of what is well known, that the agricultural budget has been increased three times since 2003, that over 50,000 short-term and over 3,500 long-term investments in agriculture have been achieved. Also, very important, something was adopted, which is a basic guideline for the development of agriculture in the years to come, which is the Strategy of Agriculture. Also, several very important system laws have been adopted in this area, four laws, while two are currently in the assembly procedure. Dear MPs, I would like to take this opportunity to remind myself in just a few words of what the priorities of the Serbian government are, above all, at this time. The first, of course, is of its own importance, the importance of the legal arrangement of the state. This means, in addition to all the laws that have been passed in the past, the adoption of the most important of all laws, the basic law, which means the constitution. It can and must only be reached by consensus of all parliamentary parties. I am convinced, based on the talks we have had so far, and at a political level, and when it comes to consultations between experts, that now the new constitution of Serbia is this only legitimate way, by the consent of all parliamentary parties, can and, I would add, must come. It does not need to be reminded how important the constitution is for Serbia at this time to legalise the state, to prove its strength, the stability of all institutions. Of course, there are parties that, more or less, at times exclusively, come down to a request to call elections and not rarely choose immediately, but also these parties, whose elections are completely legitimately above all else and above all, can be satisfied, because the time when Serbia gets a new and appropriate constitution will come when the elections are called. The rule is clear, it is a new constitution and elections. At the same time, to be perfectly clear, it says - elections for the Serbian Parliament and for the president of the Republic of Serbia. In the government's policy so far and in all the acts so far, we have pointed to the importance of European integration. When I say that, I want to be perfectly clear. Europe today, extended, much bigger since 2004 than it was before, has been going through a crisis, seeking its identity, even dealing with setting borders, defining borders, but what is important is that Serbia outside Europe, historically, political, economic, geographical, cannot remain and cannot remain. In this, it is also a point of advocacy and a persistent policy for European integration, but this policy, immediately undermining, involves a partnership with Europe, not just any one. The kind of relationship other countries, which have joined Europe or are on their way to do so, have with Europe. Serbia is an old European state, and when I say the old European state, then I bear in mind that Serbia with its statehood restored two centuries ago and many centuries earlier has contributed to the creation of something that is European identity and European values. If so, then Serbia's relations with Europe must especially be partnered. There's nothing from partner relations in conditioning policy. The conditioning policy is both inappropriate and deeply wrong. Of course, Serbia does not decide what policy international factors will lead, but Serbia can decide on its own policy and have its own position, and must have its own attitude towards any policy of conditioning and pressure. Of course, when we talk about conditionality policy, which is just a nicer term, a euphemism for blackmail, when we talk about conditioning policy, we often think of co-operation with The Hague tribunal as a means of that conditionality policy. We have made it clear that the political decision and political will of the Serbian government is, above all, in Serbia's interest to survive, so that it can move forward, to end co-operation with The Hague tribunal. If that is the case, then it really remains incomprehensible and unacceptable for Serbia to continue its conditioning policy. I've talked about it before and recently more, and I think it's something that is the firm position of the Serbian government. The Serbian government, of course, will, you know well, as so far will pay the most attention to Kosovo and Metohija. It would be very bad if I went back to the subject of conditionality policy if the conditionality policy affected the future debate on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Serbia's assembly adopted a very important act more than half a year ago. It is a resolution on political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, adopted on 21 November last year. The resolution clearly sets out coordinates for determining the province's future status, what it can and cannot do. The assembly also firmly determined that any imposed solution for Kosovo would be rejected as illegal, as legal violence against Serbia. I am obliged to inform MPs that, in parallel with Vienna's negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, there is a very intense diplomatic activity, whose goal is primarily to explain and strengthen our position. Personally and through my associates, I am constantly in contact with the governments of the Contact Group member states and with the United Nations officials, who influence Kosovo and Metohija's future status negotiations in this process. The last such a very successful conversation I had just a few days ago with Russian President Putin. The assembly can count on a special session that will eventually give it an opportunity to declare its current and decide on the future course of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. It is not the first time the congregation has spoken of it. The assembly is the one whose word will always be the last when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian government, I repeat once again, advocates full respect for international law and international order. From all previous statements, you have come forward as Prime Minister, you have been able to firmly convince yourself in the country and out of the country, and I firmly believe that the law and legal principles must be applied universally or not, and that there can be no selection, no exceptions when it comes to the fundamental rules on which the international legal order guaranteeing stability and peace in the international community, which is the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the existing states. It is simply an alpha and omega of the entire international legal order. The Serbian government is defined for full respect for Resolution 1244, which guarantees essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija and confirms Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. And of course, let me add something else, as we respect Resolution 1244, Serbia has the same relationship with other international documents, including the Dayton Peace Agreement. Under the agreement a few days ago, during a visit to Banjaluci, we reached an agreement that, given the changed circumstances, different state status of Serbia, approaches changes in the agreement on special parallel relations between Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Dayton Agreement. The possibility is foreseen by the Dayton Agreement, the possibility is a confirmation of the Dayton Agreement, and Serbia and Republika Srpska will work to expand, improve co-operation in these frameworks, whether it is political, economic, cultural and any other co-operation. I add, at last, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will launch a strong investment programme in the coming period, which should bring us closer to the key goal, which is that Serbia is doing more and better, and that it is living better. As the creation of an investment plan is in the initial phase, I believe that we will all be able to discuss it in different ways and to make a full contribution to it and its application in the period ahead. Dear MPs, I also took this opportunity, when I propose to the Assembly Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, that you be in the shortest lines, and especially in this country for a very important moment, I remind you of something that was priorities, the basic course of action of the Serbian Government. That is why I propose at the end to the National Assembly that Ivan Dulic-Markovic be elected Deputy Prime Minister and Goran Zivkova as Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28027	I thank the Prime Minister. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 - 20 minutes 24 seconds, for European Serbia, five MPs - 6 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs - five minutes each, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 191 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Alexander Vucic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have heard here a proposal that the new Deputy Prime Minister be Ivana Dulic-Markovic and that the new Minister of Agriculture be Goran Zivkov. In what has been delivered to the National Assembly as a proposal for the election of members of the government, there is a lot of résumés by Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Gorana Zivkova. For the sake of the public, I will read only the parts, that Ivana Dulic-Marković is a graduate engineer, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, direction of fruit-winogradar-vertical Zagreb, average score of 4.22, doctor of biotechnical sciences, work experience - director of the Federal Institute for Plants, Animals and Genetic Resources and Minister of Agriculture. And that is all he recommends to Ivan Dulic-Markovic for the post of vice president, later I will talk about the Minister of Agriculture. The Prime Minister told us here in a few sentences why it would be necessary and why it would be important to vote for the proposed candidates. It's because of the coalition deal, because of the government's desire to keep working. We have not heard any more serious arguments in favour of the proposed members of the government. So far, what they've done in their work, what they've done for Serbia so far, what they've done for our citizens so far, we haven't, and we couldn't even hear it. At the same time, there was no election of other members of the government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, probably because some political parties would still have to drop popularity or crash ratings, if they had to vote for these members of the government, and then the anti-constitutional and counter-lawful election of their de facto in the Serbian government, such as Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic. As for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who is probably not allowed to say anything in Serbia, because whatever she says will be exposed to the worst possible misdemeanors, the worst possible campaign, the hai and the haranga, I am proud to say that today we are the only parliamentary group in Serbia to vote against the election of Ivana Dulic-Markovic as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. There's something wrong with the microphones.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28029	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28030	Thank you, I know it's not up to you, Mr. Mikhailovich. You're an honorable man. So we will not vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic for many reasons. I'll divide them into a few groups. Ivana Dulic-Markovic is a member of the government that has not brought the promised changes to the citizens of Serbia, which has brought no improvement to the citizens, and Ivana Dulic-Markovic is a member of the political party that has reversed Serbia as no political party to date. Ivana Dulic-Markovic, with her political relationship, shared her exposure in several parts, always shared Serbia, insulted Serbia, insulted its citizens in every way possible, and spoke to her political opponents with the greatest indignity, underestimation, contempt, and even with incredible pride and passion. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]] At the same time, whenever it was necessary, from when the raspberries come to visit, when there are problems with the ransom price of the raspberries, so I don't know how I'm going to solve the problem, so let's make the public sad, I'll shed a tear. When someone asks me, as Schwarzenegger asks, what was your dad, if he was an Austrian gendarme, when you just ask, excuse me, if we can ask, if someone was a member of the MASPOK or not, don't do that, because the same scene will happen again. This Ivana Dulic-Markovic spoke the following way. We weren't lazy enough to pull the stenographic notes. She says -- that's why I'm sure in the next election, this second Serbia will win. For agriculture, it is more important than good seed that we are aware that we are the country in which only ten years ago the largest inflation has ever been recorded, that is the time in which it criticises my coalition partners, in which all the money of millions of people, including peasants, were drawn through pyramid savings, and put into the hands of a few, who financed and participated in several wars, in which new cemeteries and caves were found with new corpses instead of orchards, in which instead of peaches were transferred corpses. I'll keep reading. This is the only comment he deserves so far. Who carried corpses instead of peaches? Who was the one carrying the bodies? I'm not. I'm sure none of the MPs of the SRS, nor the members of the SRS. Who did? Who did, if he did? Who was Ivana Dulic-Markovic referring to? Who in Serbia has she accused of transporting corpses instead of peaches, as she says? Who are those who carried corpses instead of peaches, because I'd like those people to answer if they did something like that? Whoever carried the bodies without doing so from a certain municipal company in charge of the job must answer in front of justice. I fear that Ivana Dulic-Markovic wanted this only to further accuse Serbia, to confirm those who are working against Serbian citizens, against this country, that Serbia committed crimes and genocide in Kosovo and Metohija, that it also dealt with the most dirty crimes, and that no one warned her about it. It was not warned by anyone from the government's majority and was not warned by any of the parties that make up the government or by those who support it. Ivana Dulic, after that, when they asked her for an apology, because she insulted the entire Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia, said she had no idea she was doing it because she was telling the truth. She received support from "Today", B92, both the Serbian government and Vojislav Kostunica and many others, I assume for this statement. I'd like someone to tell us who the people who were carrying some corpses are? I don't know about those bodies. I listened to B92, but since they're lying, whatever they're saying is lying, then I didn't trust them. Now I ask you to tell me, you are the government, you are the government, to make it clear to us what Ivana Dulic-Markovic meant to say, who this refers to and what kind of procedure is against such people. Because if any such people are not being prosecuted, then Ivana Dulic-Markovic must answer immediately, then I call on the republican prosecutor to press charges against Ivana Dulic-Markovic, because this is the most difficult charge against the state and the people, the most difficult charge against the state and the people. Now we move on to this second part, what Ivana Dulic-Markovic did and did in the previous period on the well-being of Serbian farmers, what are these and how advanced Serbian peasants, Serbian couples, as she likes to say. Some couples in the 100 P plus group have made progress. It's called a plus by accident, I guess. That group 100 P plus the lead, now you'll hear, a certain Voja Maleshev from Katje. Randomly member 100 P plus, random member G17 plus. He received 220,000 euros, not dinars, bought machinery, performed services, and today is the main carrier of the 100 P plus business group. I brought you, Mr. Prime Minister, an example of how Ivana Dulic-Markovic works. These are your original papers, we have a court order, a copy of the faithful original in New Montenegro, ever since and then, with all the signatures. So, it's about a contract on the use of agricultural land in state property between the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, represented by Ivana Dulic-Markovic, and the Society with limited responsibility of Braca Boris from Lukic, again by accident members of G17 Plus. Now let's hear what the deal is. Here you will see that the price per hectare of the land is given to use about 1,230 dinars. It's 1,395 ha. The average price is between 6,000 and 8,000, so you figure out about 5,000 dinars times 1.395, the amount of money they've shared between them. It's millions of dinars. That's how the Ministry of Agriculture works, and that's the only way it works. Wherever the election is held, so like this one goes there to asphalt, so she goes to offer those loans. Whoever wants to vote for them has to join, and then they can think about getting credit or getting a contract to use state land, but only in this way and no other way. That is the question, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, does it make sense for such a vice-president of the Serbian government to vote? What will Ivana Dulic-Markovic do? What's he gonna do? How is she going to represent the country, as she has done so far, that all the worst talks about it, that all the worst talks about her political insolents, to call them patients, fascists? All the names and all the things he calls love speech. It was promised last year that it would be passed, a total of 42 laws should be passed from the area of agriculture. Last year it took 14, it was said in the course of these 15 laws. We've passed the Fruit Material Act, the Seed, Veterinary Act. We have not passed many key laws in the area of agriculture, such as the Food Safety Act, the Plant Health Protection Act, the Agriculture Act. At the same time, Ivana Dulic, as a time-old scholarshipist "Monsanta", as someone who has advocated it in any way to introduce into our country the production of genetically modified soybean and thus destroys Serbia's chance to stand out in the production of healthy food, clearly shows that Serbia's interest and interest in the citizens of this country is in no way a priority, but what represents private and party interests. I just have to tell you that even today, in the science of unknowns, what impact on living organisms can have on genetically modified soybeans. This was started by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, also with members from G17 plus, and continued with Ivana Dulic-Markovic. In addition to the fact that serious adverse allergic reactions to live animal organisms on genetically modified soybean have already been observed today, what effect this may have on the human organism, it will only be seen and will be established. In any case, no one, in the EU or anywhere else, will be able to buy food from Serbia under the name of healthy food, because it was fought by Ivana Dulic-Markovic. At the same time, as friends get loans, we've also seen that former ministers, just because they're members of the G17 plus, can get that. Ivana Dulic-Markovic is otherwise very sharp, contrary to the image she is trying to cultivate in public, therefore, modest, fine, disciplined and very difficult whenever you look at her, the opposite refers to people who oppose her in the profession. According to some people who are in charge of Serbia's agriculture and who know more about Serbia's agriculture than it does. For example, Professor Miroslav Malesevic, current director of the New Sad Institute of Fruit and Vomiting, who tried to warn Ivana Dulic-Markovic of all the harmful consequences of her work, what will happen to us if everything she advocates is accepted, is the most brutal way, with the support and assistance of security, believe it or not, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so one of the biggest agricultural experts in Serbia, kicked her out of the building, because you can't stand her because no one can tell her anything, because you can't say she's wrong. Well, gentlemen, she's not right about anything she's done so far, because everything she's done has been against Serbia's interests and the interests of Serbian citizens. I have here exact memos of how and how she hired people, those who didn't finish colleges, at the Ministry, that the only reason was to come and bring these people to her and her favorite assistant, Goran Zivkov, who, by the way, was also the president of the tender commission when selling Unity to Apatino, a large and powerful firm. His voice was decisive, he ruled. It was sold, with resistance from local leaders, to one of the major Belgrade tycoons. Looks like they're wanted by tycoons. Not to say it's quite an accident, and I'm not going to talk about it now, how and in what way it's all abused through the Commission to determine the damages of natural disasters, how priority funds have been provided through the FAO, how certain Davis is complaining about the disappearance of financial resources, because all of these Serbian citizens don't have to be very interested. Serbian citizens today have before them the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is due to decide whether and what has Ivana Dulic-Markovic recommended as vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what is the argument? I know one argument for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who might be enough for you -- they love her very much on B92 and in "Today," but that's no argument for us. On the contrary, whom B92 praises, we know that there is nothing wrong with Serbia. I would like to remind you of those, and I will read just one statement two days ago from the list "Kurir", one of the people who supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, which says, he says, so I would never say that, he called Ivana Dulic-Markovic a scum. [[Applause]] I would never say that, and I just hope those people don't change their minds. Yeah, I was reading, quoting the quotes from the list "Kurir." I can read to you the allegations from the list "News", from the list "Policy", where they said they would never vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic. So, it is my only job to invite the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, to start with the changes, with resistance to those who destroy and destroy Serbia, who tear down its economic substance from day to day, and to show the citizens of Serbia that I assume in this way only buy time, because they do not believe that the Prime Minister is very happy and satisfied with all this, that it is time for elections and for changes, for some new government, and that those from the parties from which Ivana Dulic-Markovic comes from for a long, long time in some government will not be, because the National Assembly will be able to see only in the postcards. And one more thing... [[Applause]] (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. I know it's time, I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I call on you MPs and for another reason to vote against the election of Ivana Dulic-Markovic as vice president and Goran Zivkova as Minister of Agriculture, and that reason is courage. Because today in Serbia, it is courage to stand up to the hickeys and the haranga led by all regimeal media, RTS, B92, Pinka, all others. Not to mention "Politics," "Today" and the others. Because today it's courage to be an honest, responsible man to stand up to thieving, crime and corruption, and I know and I'm sure there's a large number of those in this room who are willing to oppose both thieving, crime and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28031	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here is the moment, only in order, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28032	More than two and a half years have passed since Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's term of office, and not a single National Assembly has discussed confidence in ministers or the entire government. The current prime minister, the then-president of the SRJ, in both cases of the DSS president, has demanded that the opposition party leader of previous governments, Djindjic and Zivkovic, be respected the opposition's democratic right to discuss confidence in the government. In addition, the Government is bound by the Constitution and by law to do so regularly. Two events that in the near past had to, according to a fundamental political logic, lead to the government's question of confidence coming to the agenda of this assembly: the interruption of negotiations with the European Union, due to a lack of respect for commitments made towards The Hague tribunal and the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, as well as a referendum in Montenegro, which gave a definitive answer to the question of Serbia-Montenegro's fate. After the talks with the European Union were suspended, the public received a written statement from the prime minister, silenced in the assembly as if nothing had happened. After the separation of Montenegro, Serbia becomes independent and is given the authority of two very important ministries, the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs, but neither does the Serbian Parliament decide, as we see today, even though it should naturally be that we have changed the laws on ministries, and today, on the same cost, we have voted and voted for these two ministers, who are currently doing, without the approval of this national home, very high functions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If by something this government is successful, it is in the full submission of this Parliament to itself and the conversion of the Supreme Legislative Body into its own establishment. The government does not respect this parliament, it compromises it, devising it, making it ridiculous. In most cases, citizens are bitterly following what is happening in parliament, what they see, they view the Assembly as a ballast, as some kind of usurper group that is represented as MPs, which actually does nothing but needlessly spends people's money. The relationship of most ministers to parliament... Be parliamentary enough and try to listen to a different opinion. So, the majority of ministers' relationship with parliament, the idea that it should be introduced, for example, emergency measures and forced administration, then statements that the laws do not have to be respected if they are a poor, lawless confiscation of mandates, several crimes committed in the fight to preserve the majority, a public prosecutor who, within 2 hours and 7 minutes of the vote of the budget, is instigating an investigation and threatening MPs because of different opinions, breaking parties and parliamentary groups, general disrespect and the Constitution and the law, all together destroyed the Assembly's reputation as the main legislative body, as the country's leading institutions. Such actions have challenged both legality and legitimacy. One of the main promises, tasks set by Prime Minister Kostunica to himself and this government at the beginning of the mandate, is just the construction of institutions. Clearly, just an example of the congregation is sufficient to prove failure in that field. The only strong institution in Serbia is the government, which has played a crucial role in all affairs in the country, including those concerning law and justice. In Serbia, there is no division of power in legislative, executive and judicial. If it is for the sake of the government's survival and the farsican congregation's majority, then laws are broken, arrests are withdrawn, arrests are raised, ministerial assistants are called, then appointments are annulled, and citizens are convinced that they were not there. Worse than Bodrum. All important institutions, such as the Securities Commission, the Broadcasting Agency, the National Bank, the Assembly, are increasingly less or more compromised. Serbian citizens are very unhappy. The number of poor people and people without a job is increasing, there is apathy and contempt, above all because of the fact that no topic in Serbia has changed, as has essentially not changed approach to solving a number of problems, as well as the attitude towards Europe and the world. Relations with the European Union are getting worse. First, negotiations with the European Union and so formally threatened Serbia's European future are interrupted, due to broken promises and unfulfilled commitments. The European Union, then of the highest official posts, has been accused of falsifying the results of the Montenegrin referendum. More and more frequent accusations at the expense of the European Union in recent days. It's a safe path to Serbia's isolation. We saw how it ended when such a policy was led for the last time. In his exhibition more than two and a half years ago, the prime minister set Serbia's membership in European institutions as one of the main priorities. A strong push by the government to identify and strengthen the state union or at least the government's leading party and the prime minister himself, since the G17 has been for independent Serbia since the beginning, has ended with a definitive break between Serbia and Montenegro. Almost the entire government's political platform, as it was set up at the outset, has failed. The way the government and prime minister reacted to the news of an independent Montenegro is seriously jeopardising the future relations of the two brother states. As far as economic policy is concerned, it is also marked by unfulfilled promises, huge inflation, the further decomposition of society, an increase in poverty and the number of unemployed, i.e. by an increase in the number of transition losers, an unabated foreign trade balance deficit. The privatisation process itself is a goal and is implemented regardless of the consequences, workers as direct actors are excluded from the privatisation process, the most important objective of privatisation is budget income, not real living standards, based on growth in production, employment and exports. The main goal was to sell large enterprises such as EPS, NIS and Mobtel. It is recognized by almost the same pattern Milosevic applied in 1997 when he sold 49% of Telekom for $750m and extended his rule for another three years. Milosevic then, as this government now intends, spent the money from Telekom today on raising pensions and salaries of selected Serbian companies, whose directors were accidentally from his party. The revenues from privatising all Serbian banks are around 300m euros. In Romania, only 62% of the state bank was paid 3.5 billion euros in 2005 for privatisation. What remains of the promise that the liquidation of the four largest Serbian banks and the opening of the National Savings Bank on their ruins, as well as the arrival of foreign banks, will significantly increase competition, bring down interest rates and start a Serbian economy. On the contrary, interest has grown significantly, the National Savings Bank has been sold by less than 40m euros, the economy is in ruins, and the population is over-indebted. Partial monetary stability was achieved with the IMF's assistance, which insisted on the implementation of a solid monetary and fiscal policy. Given the fact that the inflation rate reached in the first four months of 2006 significantly exceeded the projected rate of 9.3%, promised to the IMF, it appears that the finance minister had already given up the IMF service, which he was most in favour of a year ago. The greatest benefit from the work of this government is those who were so rich, they are even richer today, the ministries function as feuds, and corruption is unabated. All of this does not require Serbia to reconstruct a government, which is not actually a reconstruction, but needs early parliamentary elections. Since it has not fulfilled any of the pre-election promises made publicly, that it will bring a new constitution, that it will preserve the state union, that it will fulfill the promises made to the International Community in connection with The Hague, that it will conclude an agreement on joining the European Union, that it will recover the national economy, the government of Vojislav Kostunica is resorting to the use of recognizable and effectively applied populist measures, calculated to deliver visible results and ensure that another parliamentary election is received. The government does not worry that this is not in line with the reform and European orientation, as the ultimate goal almost always justifies the funds used. The current ad hoc story about the Constitution is a imposed topic in order to frustrate failures and problems. The government does not have the capacity to adopt a new constitution, time will show it, as it has a very weak position in the talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Nothing can gold this bad results, and that, fellow MPs, I am sure, will also show Serbian citizens when they go to the polls, whether they are held in three or six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28033	Miloljub Albianic, G17 plus, head of the parliamentary club, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28034	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the harsh criticism we've heard so far, this government can last not one, but two mandates. So we had the opportunity in the previous period, during the term of office of this government, during this assembly majority, to take a multiple exam here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] More than once is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these are the opportunities when the budget is brought, the budget rebalance, and we have had the opportunity to appoint a minister. So, all these situations we have already been through and it is not unusual, but it is quite normal to see again what the effect of the government is, what are the intentions of the future period and that the majority confirm trust in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to get into any controversy or respond to the provocative, demagogue and false appearances of the speaker. I simply want to say a few words in affirmative terms about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about candidates for the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture. I think that's what this congregation and my personal dignity determine. What is very important to say is that the government had significant success in the previous period. Regardless of the difficulties, regardless of the character and nature of the government, significant positive things have happened, and it should be pointed out in particular. Today we have a surplus in the budget, it has already been achieved in the previous year, without introducing new taxes. The government has made it possible to complete the arrangement with the IMF and an additional write-off of $700m, totaling $4.7 billion in foreign debt. Serbia, as a country, assessed by the World Bank, is a leader in reforms. What's very important is that in 2005, by direct foreign investment of $1.6 billion, which is for 750 million more than in 2004 or, from 2000 to today, the most direct foreign investment. What is expected in 2006, is, in fact, beyond what is expected. I'll talk about it later. It is important to say that the foreign trade deficit has been reduced, which is not so easy to succeed. In any case, Serbia's image was improved. You know that the annual European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Assembly was held here last year, when the titles "New Face of Serbia" appeared, "Serbia is a country worth investing in" and something like that, which also raises the reputation of our country, and according to the abolition of the latest sanctions from the United States says our country can be a welcome country for investors. It's important that certain taxes are reduced. The VAT has been reduced to some products, a tax on financial transactions and a profit fund tax has been abolished. It is important to point out that debts are coming back, in addition to the write-off of the external debt, and the internal debts that have burdened the state, which are debts towards the pensioners, the savings debts have already shifted greatly in return. The state has become thrifty and efficient. You know very well that the administration has been reduced by 10%. What is also important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to these macroeconomic stability moves, has embarked on certain projects that should motivate young people, young couples, young entrepreneurs, therefore, with some new ideas, such as housing loans. The National Credit Insurance Corporation was founded here for the first time. People are able to compete for that. Of course, it's said to be difficult and that the war is high, but slowly, but it's certainly going into the process, as in other countries, that people can, instead of paying rent, pay the war for their apartment. Also, self-employment loans, micro-credits, which is very important, the Fund for Support for young talent, rewards for young people who are the best and have won awards in the country and abroad, come here with medals. We are rightly proud, but we also have to motivate them for further additional work - scholarships to the best students. If we link it to the loans for the apartments, then it's logical that we want to motivate these young people to work for our country and our people here to exploit their knowledge and skills. It is important to say, and we heard today in the prime minister's presentation, that it is important in the next period to continue negotiations and sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. Of course, it is necessary, by the highest state officials, diplomatic roads, to do everything to make sure that negotiations are extended and come. It's a very important signal for our country. It is very important that our partners in the EU understand that our main goal is to continue a normal conversation with them, to get a signed contract, because one bitter impression is that such a contract has been given to Albania, and we have not yet. So we don't want to interfere with integration processes in the environment in any way, but we want to show them that we really are partners. What does that mean? This means that we want to solve all the problems we have in common with Europe. We are very concerned about the continuation of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. Today we are in a position here to elect Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ivan Dulic-Markovic and Minister of Agriculture Gorana Zivkova. By their work, they imposed themselves on such solutions with their personalities. They are a proposal G17 plus, of course, but by their work at the Ministry of Agriculture, by their honor, by their responsibility, by honesty, they have proposed themselves for those places. In a few words, I'll tell you what it is that they've done at the Ministry of Agriculture so far. First of all, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategic document, which is a strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia. It's a document that starts with our agriculture going forward. What is important is not only the Ministry of Agriculture worked on it, but joint and local experts, and representatives of manufacturers and processors, international experts. So it's a European Agency for Reconstruction project. So, everyone made an effort to get a document called the Agriculture Development Strategy. It is important to say that previously the lending of agricultural producers was not there, there were no investments in the renewal of machinery, there were no other projects, such as greenhouses, irrigation, various other things that allow for the improvement of agriculture in general, and today there are. Today we are able to see many new tractors, that many things we see, that there is an effect, investments through agricultural loans. These agricultural loans were 50,000 short-term and about 3,000 long-term. Someone's gonna say it's small. True, but the process has gone unwittingly. This is something that is very important, such as the important registration of agricultural producers and the word to them that this means certain opportunities for agricultural producers. Finally, people in Serbia now understand that it means certain opportunities for them to get incentives. Also, there were a lot of incentives to improve the village. What's important is the marking of the cattle has been done. Today, we are in a position not only to know what the figure is, but also to take care of the stock fund in Serbia in a veterinary sense. A better quality of milk, of course, has been adopted by the Regulation on the use of incentives to improve the quality of milk. What is important in the area of agriculture, there is a surplus in trade. All this when you look at the area of agriculture is seen to be significant progress, thanks to Ivana Dulic-Markovic above all, and Goran Zivkov, her assistant. What else does it matter to say? It is important to say that today a major investment plan, a national investment plan, is moving forward in Serbia, a billion euros for Serbia. So far, certain people have been taken from the state, used by the state, and today the state is returning these funds through investment to the citizens of Serbia in the best possible way. That's not what happened before. A large investment plan involves investments in different areas, such as environmental protection, energy, culture, science, education, promotion of entrepreneurship, employment and economic development, investments in agriculture and water economy, police, transport infrastructure, sport, housing, courts, tourism, social protection institutions, religious facilities, military, health care. There will be significant investments in all available areas, and this is very important. It is an important infrastructure, it is important to support all municipalities in Serbia, to rebuild its facilities, its infrastructure things that are necessary for one normal functioning. Today in Serbia, we are in a position. I started with a surplus. This surplus and direct foreign investment, household business, and the calculation of corruption and crime actually enable the state to invest in the development of its infrastructure in one normal way, because this allows better business conditions, which allows others to come along with the infrastructure that exists, can normally work with us and work with us. So, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest we vote for Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Dulic-Markovic. In addition to being honorable, responsible, working, modest, in addition to the results shown here, we also need political stability in the coming period, we need these things that we have said and realized. We need to pay attention to the citizens and provide this national investment plan as an opportunity for a better life. Also, we're trying to choose the Minister of Agriculture. I hope most will vote, too. We call on all parliamentary groups because the arguments against them do not exist. Everything I've said is true, everything is affirmative, it's all in the spirit of raising both Serbia and living conditions here. Everything is in the spirit of reform, change and better life and the work of people in Serbia. If we want Europe here in Serbia, let's choose the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. It's the best signal to everyone that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28035	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Yes, Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28036	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, since Mr. Albianic, a colleague here next to me, listening to him, I would really gain confidence that we live in the ideal state. I just don't know if he was talking about Serbia or any other country. I'm just afraid that if he continues with these discussions, he won't convince the SRS to vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic. I'm glad that Mr. Albianic gave up what he was saying at the beginning, on one occasion, I don't know whether it's here or somewhere in public, that this is the government of Kostunica-Labus. This was never the government of Kostunica-Labus. As far as the SPS is concerned, this was the government led by Vojislav Kostunica, and this is exactly what the SPS had in mind from the very beginning. I wouldn't talk about where Miroljub Labus is right now. Also, I would also like to say here quite clearly that the SPS believes that, after assuming jurisdiction from the level of the federal state or state union, Serbia-Montenegro's defence and foreign affairs ministers should be voted here in parliament. We expect to vote on that. Today we wouldn't be in the O.R. if Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic were present in this room. We expect the prime minister to propose ministers within the legal deadline, based on a decision adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say here that the SPS has made a decision on its main committee that in no case can we vote to keep Vuk Draskovic or become any official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, given that this is precisely why we are talking because we believe that no regulations or any sublegal solutions can be easily re-imaged from the federal level to the level of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, Vuk Draskovic could talk about the SPS he wanted, so we'll wait here and see how it goes here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If he doesn't get help from DS and that so-called. The democratic bloc, I don't think it will remain in any position in the government of the Republic of Serbia anymore. Otherwise, as you know, we initially had a deal with the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica. We did not enter the personnel issues of those parties that make up the ruling coalition, and then we said it was the problem or advantage of the prime minister, the staff he proposes. We were secretly hoping and expecting that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica would not propose to Ivan Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister, but apparently there could be no other solution, as far as the government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned. I also want to say here that what the SPS said against Minister Dulic, the current minister, was not directed against Kostunica and our MPs' statements against Dulicka do not mean that we are against the government of the Republic of Serbia. We just think that the statements that were, they were absolutely inappropriate for two reasons. First of all, they're not true. So, a statement about the bodies being transported and Mr. Vukic rightly asked the question, who is responsible and if someone is responsible for it, should answer. I am sure that no SPS MP and no SPS official has taken part in this. The second reason is certainly inaccuracy that those ministers or officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who are supported by the SPS, practically, do not find it appropriate to have at least a minimum of tolerance and a minimum of non-aggression between our political parties. However, today when we talk about it, the SPS is, of course, faced with one side of our relationship with Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who we have otherwise tried to overcome several times, talking to her and realizing that the mistake has been made, that it must no longer be repeated on her part, and realizing that the SPS has already refused to vote for her law once. On the other hand, whether it's a greater shame to vote "for" of benefit or damage to the vote "against". You know that what was the basic reason for our support to this government was, apart from national and national interests, the goal of that with the power of the DS. I also want to say here and ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica, today when he came here, in front of this building, I don't know if they're demonstrating or what they're doing, whether they're in some hepening or they're in some rehab, I don't know, a group of those who belong to the party of former Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic. They yell, Mr. Kostunica, so they yell - save Serbia and kill Kostunica. What are you waiting for, what did you allow? Are you the government in this country or not? I'm talking about the DSS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about DS, they pretend they're not the authorities, they came out of here when it was voted on a resolution on the constitution or taking over Serbia's jurisdiction, a decision to take over Serbia's jurisdiction, that is to say, over the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in order to send a letter to all the world statesmen and other organisations, where it does not call for the parliament's decision, but rather because Montenegro has become independent, we are asking that too. Thanks to the decision of this assembly in which they did not participate, Tadic is now playing some new wartime commander. If he had commanded the Republika Srpska Army, who knows, they would now be chasing him like you are chasing Mladic. Because Zoran Djindjic, as you know, persuaded Karadzic and the others at the Palace not to accept peace plans, so perhaps together with Vuk Draskovic and perhaps others, because at that time he was drawing some maps of leopard skin all over the former Yugoslavia, making paramilitary formations, units, who knows what would happen. The DS, thanks to your amendment to the law, you from the SRS and the DSS have changed the Law on the choice of Serbian President that in the second round you do not need to come out more than 50%, and thanks to you Boris Tadic has been elected president, thanks to you for supporting him in the second round, the DSS, don't ask me rhetorical questions, because you already know the answer to them. Besides, politics isn't about us being present in this room, it's about people listening to us. Anyway, thank you for your interactive participation in this discussion, I thank you very much. I hope that the day will come very soon when we will be able to work better in the executive government in Serbia as we used to. In any case, Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic was elected thanks to DSS support. In a delegation for negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, half the people are on Boris Tadic's proposal. Boris Tadic performs some army tests every day, the unit, it's fine, now I can't remember whether he served the army or not, but there's no obstacle to being a commander and one who couldn't serve the army, but in any case, it's better, they say that it's better to command the military one who doesn't have military experience, because whoever has them can abuse it. In any case, the DS exercise so much power in Serbia today that it is so ironic and embarrassing that they talk about being an opposition political party. They are not here in parliament, but they are in the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other institutions. Mr. President, I don't know if your vice president candidate is here, that he might not be at this rally outside the building? You have to make things very clear and as far as G17 plus is concerned. We don't mind working with the DS, just so you know, who was working with them has long since disappeared from Serbia's political scene. You're talking about a democratic bloc today. Here, G17 says he's gonna negotiate with DS. I don't know, people, are you aware of the fact that it took the power of the DS, Mr. President, has the arrest threatened you on charges of involvement in Djindjic's murder? Young Dinkic, they wanted to send him to prison, remember what they said about him when they replaced him from the governor's post. They're thinking the same thing now, maybe some others are thinking, and that's not controversial. Anyway, I can't understand that G17 thinks we should talk to DS. This was considered by Ivana Dulic-Markovic when she once proposed a law, I don't remember which law was on the agenda, and then her friends from the DS simply came out of the hall, they love Ivana Dulic, but they love the elections and power more than Ivana Dulic. We believe that this issue today, if we look at our relationship with Ivana Dulic, certainly the SPS cannot vote for Ivana Dulic. But this is not just a question of Ivana Dulic, this is a matter of reshuffle of the government, whose failure would mean practically the end of the SPS support to the government of the Republic of Serbia. As I said at the beginning, out of the damages we can have, the political damage by voting on this proposal, certainly it would be a greater shame to allow our move to allow those out there, who are supposed to be in prison, which you are holding free, and they are allegedly some democratic bloc and you want to negotiate with them, that they do not return to power again. You're talking about a democratic bloc. What democratic block? Who wanted to arrest you, kill you? Did Vladan Batic propose a death sentence? What was he saying? Let's introduce a death sentence just a little while while we kill these guys, and then we'll end it, because it's not in line with European tendencies. Why don't you talk to him for a minute? Maybe now he'd condemn you to hanging, not an electric chair. Why don't you talk to Chad Jovanovic for a minute? Here, he's outside. I guess Dulychka's not there with him. I guess he won't be there today. In any case, you have those you call a democratic bloc, who arrested 12,000, 13,000 people, who voted from Bodrum, who closed the media, arrested journalists, listened to journalists, who introduced political dictatorship in Serbia over the past few years. You're talking about them as a democratic bloc. Who were you fighting from G17? You have fought the SPS of all years, but you have emerged as a political party fighting the Democratic Party. Well, that's already, if you've decided to drown in DS, another question. As far as we're concerned, we never felt that the coalition or co-operation with any political party could be greater or eternal. In politics, politics is sometimes a question of what is related to politics, but sometimes it is also a question of what is politically real. As you know, in Serbia for the past 16 years, the multi-party system has seen many authorities, which may have looked politically amazing, but were the only political reality in Serbia. That is why even today when I talk about this proposal, we will support the government's reconstruction for the government, not Dulicka. In any case, we want to continue our co-operation with Kostunica, so that those who wish to return Serbia back to where it stopped on October 5th and who regret that Serbia did not continue on October 6th. Of course, with a special desire to be democratic in Serbia when elections are called, the next rule will also be patriotic, but also patriotic. I hope you all know which political parties can participate in such an option. I'd also say today is the world day of refugees. There are 226,000 registered displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. There are several hundred thousand refugees. What is important for Serbia, which is that all the political parties that exist in Serbia know that we may be facing a difficult fall because of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. A difficult November, December, and we believe that any political figure is not worthy of Serbia coming into a political interregnum, which many would use to impose a solution to Kosovo and Metohija on Serbia. Otherwise, we believe that the interruption of relations with the EU, the negotiations, was not directed towards Ratko Mladic, but aimed at helping Montenegro vote independence in the referendum. I'm sure there will be a continuation of the negotiations, among other things, because the G17 ministers have converted resignations. They wouldn't be making resignations if they knew they were going to have to resign. In any case, Mladic will no longer be a condition because Montenegro has become independent. But there are other tasks that some representatives of the international community have not yet completed. For this reason, we believe it is necessary in Serbia to maintain political stability in another period and when speaking about the Constitution of the SAA, the current constitution is good. Had it not been for the existing constitution, Serbia would never have been able to establish itself with all its powers in the event of Montenegro's secession. If you can secure most of this, we won't be making a problem, if the solutions in the Constitution are in line with our efforts, but we don't think it's a political priority. Some political parties, which advocate elections, above all, I mean DS, I'm not sure they're looking for and they want elections at all. What choice will they have when they rule without a choice in Serbia. Mr. President, look at your ministries, your health department and some other. They're all officials, they're all in the health care of the DS people. Are they your coalition partners? G17 plus prefers to place someone from the DS than one of his members. They've got at least enough to set it up. In the end, I want to say that we as the SPS parliamentary group spoke with Prime Minister Kostunica, Mladjan Dinkic, Ivan Dulic-Markovic, we asked, and that was our ultimate request, that the SPS can even consider this issue, which is to accept our request that state agricultural land cannot be sold. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: What can't by law? ) By law, the existing can, to the one who gives it on the basis of the government's decision. On the basis of the proposed Agricultural Land Act, it is possible to sell agricultural land on the basis of a government decision. Our MP, Živorad Smiljanic, has been asking for a year or two days for this law to be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We asked to prevent Serbia's feud, because what domestic or foreign tycoons are doing. They buy companies and businesses, and on that basis they take a land that is not theirs and they use it. Today in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, we already have several feudals. To prevent Serbia's feud, we sought and demanded that this request be accepted. Minister Dulic also informed me yesterday that she had accepted our amendments submitted by Hranislav Peric and there will certainly be no sale of state agricultural land to foreign or domestic customers in the coming period. At the very end, I want to say that I was particularly irritated in these political conflicts by the position of the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia. That's where Branka Bosnjak's G17 attitude is. I don't know if she's still in G17, since she's not an MP anymore. It is in some government, since it is in the city government. She was in the city government in Belgrade. The Independent Association of Journalists says -- TV broadcasts of assembly sessions should be shut down urgently. Be careful, please. Do I remember that for ten years they searched, demonstrated, broke, burned Serbia to enable direct TV transmissions of assembly sessions. Why now? So as not to supposedly hear hate language in the congregation. Our court for the political action of each of our MPs is a nation. Under the Constitution of Serbia, no MP can answer for what he said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All those objections that go to and on what Zoran Krasic said, even if he said in that sense, are absolutely unconstitutional and nonsense is that the prosecutor can even discuss it. Who can arrest an MP for saying something about this pay phone? But I think the SRS is glad that the G17 is so into them, because of course it helps them to have a topic for political work. I'd love to be attacked so much, but something's calmed down lately. In any case, the SPS will not participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if anyone comes to the idea of abolishing direct TV. Among other things, and because we think that if someone did, you remember Roosevelt saying, "The opposition when it comes to power is doing the same thing she resented the previous government." I mean, Comrade Meho, you shouldn't be the one to rebel, since we're left here, we're the only lefties here. Therefore, in the absence of DS, I hope it is important to hear one serious voice on Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28037	Are any of the chiefs of Parliament clubs and authorised representatives answering for a word? For the replica, MP Alexander Aca Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that it is not responsible why there is no member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ivana Dulic, to respond to what we have talked about here, does not have to answer... (President: She is not a member of the government, she is now a citizen today. I'm sorry, I'm guilty. But there's something I need to tell you... (President: We have found the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture, which I am pleased with, and now Ivana Dulic-Markovic is a citizen, who has been proposed as Deputy Prime Minister. And I'm sorry, she's not a citizen, she's doing the minister's job until the new minister's election. (President: No, it has been established, Mr. Vukic, that resignation has been established and is no longer being carried out. All right. Why didn't anyone else respond to the grant agreement for the use of state-owned agricultural land. We also delivered the contract to the majority representatives of the National Assembly, certain honest people who wanted to see the Ministry of Agriculture do so, and these people are appalled by manipulation, crime and theft. People on this side of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here's your contract here, something that needs to be spent between six and eight thousand dollars and 1,400 hectares of Serbian land. Is there anyone to answer that or not, is someone going to say whether it's fair or not? In the meantime, after the end of our discussion, a new letter came to us -- how are loans granted to the agrarian? Until seven months ago, all the agrarian loans went through the company of graduate engineer Predrag Sladojevic of Novi Sad, otherwise assistant minister. The commission was always between 10% and 14%. It is the headquarters of a company in Novi Sad, with outposts in Sremska Mitrovica and other places. When it was broken and police began to play around the company, Sladojevic was most quietly withdrawn from the post of Assistant Minister of Agriculture, but continued to do the same job. They have brought together the modified hybrids of soybeans, corn and others into our country, as well as American hybrid corn companies "Pionir", thus jeopardizing not only agrarian but human health. There's some information here that I don't have any additional papers and I wouldn't be talking about right now. I'd like someone to answer that. And as for the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia and their demand that there be no TV transmission, because it is now an "in", I have to tell you what kind of explanation on the B92 show is said why there should be no TV transmission: "There should be no TV transmission because the SRS MPs are using the Assembly's pay phone in the best possible way, propagating their party and contributing to the growth of its rating". Now that's why they need to shut down TV so people don't know what's going on in the National Assembly. They would say Krasic killed 17 people, who Toma 30 grandparents in Antin, if there were no TV transmissions. There's no thing they wouldn't do if there wasn't a direct TV transmission and there's no way people could hear what it is we're thinking and what it is we're really saying. As far as we're concerned, let them do both UNS and NUNS, and MUNS, and as many of them as they want their jobs, make their salaries whatever they want. It is our job to fight for Serbia, for its citizens, and it is our job to fight crime and corruption, and it is our job to also fight for everyone to have the right to say their opinions and vote as they will. I would once again urge representatives of those parties who make numerous remarks to Ivana Dulic-Markovic not to vote today for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, not to vote today for Goran Zivkov, because that would be a signal to the Serbian government that he must seek different solutions, that he must seek better solutions. If they can't find a different and better solution, we'll go to the election. I don't know who will win or who will rule. We are not dealing with public opinion studies, we are not telling anyone that we will win either this or that, the citizens of Serbia will, in accordance with their security, give themselves up. If they show their commitment in such a way as to give trust to the Serbian radicals, thank them, if not, you will rule again, whether with the yellows or some others, it doesn't matter. What is most important, that is yes, and that is why I am proud to speak on behalf of the SRS today, there is no compromise with the bad solutions, there is no compromise with the solutions that are against the interests of the citizens of this country, which are against the interests of the National Assembly, if you will and against the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we will not vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28039	Let me get one thing straight, just a little bit. I didn't call you. How do you know it's your turn? There's another replica, so sit in your seat, wait in your seat. Let's just get this straight about whether someone's doing a duty or not. According to the government law, Article 23 resolved: the minister can resign and send it to the Prime Minister, then to the National Assembly president. Second position: The National Assembly at the first next session, without debate, takes note that the minister resigned and thus ends his term. It was Monday, we realized that he had stopped his mandate and from that moment on, as described in Article 26, where he said: the minister who resigned is obliged to do current jobs until his mandate is terminated, and Minister Dulic stopped his post as Minister of Agriculture at 10.00 hours Monday. The People's MP, Ivica Dacic, called for the replica. Here you go, Mr. Dacic. Well, I'm in order, so what am I supposed to do while I'm here? Mr. Dacic came by the office, I got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28040	Mrs. Radeta, don't doubt Mr. Angelkovic won't respect the Rules of Procedure. We Socialists, when we led this parliament, everything worked normal. Anyway, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure because it's really this Rules of Procedure, I can't say in 20 minutes -- we left-wings, we have a rhetoric stronger side, and when we talk, it takes us a few hours to introduce ourselves to the public. I'm just kidding. Mr. Vukic was talking about direct television transmissions. Of course we don't need to shut down the transmissions. If there were no television broadcasts, Serbia would think that everything seen on Studio B, Pink, B-92, etc., and even on RTS, is true. RTS is not a public service. He's a little DS service, a little public service, a little all. But it's already a matter of government, which I wouldn't want to go into. Mr. Prime Minister just spoke about the election. Of course there should be elections after the constitution, elections for the president of Serbia, elections for the Republic Parliament, and local elections, and the province elections, all elections. Does anyone think they'll stay in power for 100 years? Because, Mr. President, there won't even be a constitution, because DS doesn't think to go to the election. Why would Boris Tadic support a change in the constitution when he knows he will never be elected president again, unless you choose him again, as far as possible, here in parliament. So that's why I'm asking you not to repeat your mistakes, because you know how, those who forget their past are obliged to relive it. Anyway, I answered about Telekom, someone was saying, I think Mrs. Nedeljkovic was talking about Telekom, I apologize, Ljilja Nestorović, I got mixed up. Good thing I didn't tell Ljilja Omerovic, that would be a problem. Anyway, ma'am, my friend Ljilja said, I really don't speak persuasively, because I think that's the way they talk in those circles of the Socialist International, the truth, I apologize, we're not yet a member of the Socialist International, you and the Democrats are a little left-handed of us, I have to admit it, and internationally admit it anyway. You were talking about selling Telekom. I would remind you, 49% of Telekom was sold for a billion and a half marks, with a gold action for Serbia... (President: a billion and seven hundred. ) Corrected by Zoran Angelkovic, a billion and seven hundred million marks, with gold action and with the obligation of foreign operators, along with our foreign houses, to avoid the world price of impulses. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, whatever your name is, everything you've sold in Serbia in these six years isn't worth that much. You sold Sartide for 20 million, worth more than 200. Who took that commission, that's the question. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Dacic. ) Mr. President, the process against Janjusevic and Kolesar is being conducted longer than the mandates of a government. Is that possible? Okay, I guess some of these processes will come to an end. In any case, some of them who've been selling enterprises in the past, those of the DS who aren't there, they'd sell the company, they'd give it away for free, only if they had where to get some commission. (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. They sold out everything, a billion and seven hundred million marks, when you talk about it, you have to talk with respect about it. Thank God and God give the state of Serbia what it has, which is most valuable, it sells for big money, but it retains the majority control package of actions. That's the SPS's position today. As for the privatisation of public enterprises, we are opposed to privatising the majority action package, that anyone else has a majority action package... (President: Time, Mr. Dacic. ) Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic, for your understanding, I know that what I was saying was very interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28041	I'm glad you can talk all day, but for others, we have to respect the weather. The word has the People's MP Stojanovic-Plasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28042	Here you go, Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and now Mr. President. I want to answer some things. First of all, I would really like to appeal again to go back to a constructive discussion, waving whatever letters I don't think contributes to a constructive debate. And our MP group, like everyone else, gets a lot of letters from citizens, sympathisers and others, we also get records from trials and various other documents that we don't read at a congregation pay phone, because we find that untasteful. Otherwise, the phone in our parliamentary group was heated today by the support farmers are sending to the former agriculture minister for her work. I've called to answer our call several times, to tell you what the situation is about that contract in question. There is no such contract, there are many such contracts, because the state is obliged to charge rent for the state country. It's never been done before, and now it is. This agriculture minister had the strength to charge for the state land others were working on. Of course, it is not enough to wave a contract, but to talk about how the procedure is respected when signing a contract or renting something that belongs to the state. Of course it's done completely publicly, openly, through the tender process, and of course the one who wins the tender gets the land into lease. I suppose you know that very well about the Master's Building in Zemun, but in this case the procedure was clear and transparent. So there's not just this contract. I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that around 100,000 hectares of the state-owned country have been leased and that the state of Serbia has been earning about 500 million dinars in its budget since the state's lease. It has never happened before, it has been processed, I don't know how, I don't know, this time the budget has income that comes through agricultural loans, through investments, through a three-fold increase in the agricultural budget to farmers, and returns to Serbian citizens in another way, through education, healthcare and all other areas that are financed from the budget. The results of the work in the field of agriculture, development strategies, the lending of producers, not only of large combinations, but of direct agricultural producers, the registration of agricultural households, the incentive means for improving the infrastructure and improving the village, the marking of cattle, which is something that contributes to the quality of raising cattle, their health, but also to European integration, because it is clear that Serbia's future in Europe, and one part of the future is in agriculture. Better quality of milk, a final surplus in agricultural trade, which was achieved in 2005, is a significant result of the work achieved in the area of agriculture. It certainly is something that qualified the Minister of Agriculture to continue working on European integration and on Serbia's European path, which is the path I believe we all have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28044	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukic called. Before that, you signed up for the replica. At the same time, I'd like to inform you that there will be a list of speakers afterwards. Please, in order to prepare speakers, the speakers' lists were reported by New Serbia, MPs 9+9, for European Serbia, the SPS, the SRS and the G17 plus. After your statement to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, and your replica I found, the first word will be by MP Tomislav Kitanovic and Meso Omerovic. Thank you for your patience. Here you go, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've now received a message from Telecom, as it warms up, you've had four incoming calls today at the G17 Plus Parliament Club. So much so you know how he got so hot. I asked you precisely, and I'll tell you why. It is indisputable that you are doing well and that as a politician, you are trying to respond in a way that would be more receptive to the citizens. Unlike some, I don't like to underestimate political opponents. You make a story that might go somewhere, but the problem is it's not true. What's this about? You gave to use the state land, which is normally given at a price, when it comes to long-term lease, from six thousand to eight thousand dinars per hectare, gave to 1,200 dinars per hectare. They happen to be members of G17 plus and it happens to be 1,300 acres of farmland. Things are perfectly clear and quite accurate. By the way, there was only one registered to what was called a contest. It's the one who's totally randomly a member of our party, and it'd be weird if someone else checked in, because he'd have to get one, too. Here, when you talk about it, we may not have had those four incoming calls, however you turn, but they sent us some photos, some faxes, some people to doves. This is nowhere near desire or message, this is that you never want to get, like some people got in South Banat. From the Vrsac region and the municipality of Vrsac, the man says: "Respected, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management informs you that during the allocation of funds for flood damage in the region of South Banat, there has been an error in payment traffic. Money that doesn't belong to you has been paid to your dedicated current account. In addition, we send you a full general payment card, where you have to pay the funds to our account. Please make your payment by then and then." Whether he left G17 in the meantime or why he's guilty, we haven't established that yet. I've got another piece of paper here. At the time, you boasted about helping flooded areas, how that money went to them, etc. Here's a receipt, with a warrant. The man was paid 230,000 dinars in due time. Look, this is his whole country, look at what it looks like, it's all flooded, it's destroyed, it's all destroyed. It's according to the Romanian border, the municipality's peership, says very clearly on the map - the Landyard. It's Marjanovic Radomir, Mileticeva, a soybean plot of 5 hectares, another 5 hectares, borderstone number 196. So let's be very specific. It's supposed to be $230,000, and a man's got to pay back 216,000. What kind of help did a man get? (President: Please, no throwing.) It's easy to calculate. Mr. Wolfie, take care of the weather and get it over with. ) It is easy to calculate that you were just falsely boasting in public and saying something that had nothing to do with reality and reality. These are the questions we want to talk about here, and we want to hear from you the answer. Anyway, thank you for the answer, whatever it is. In any case, I regret to note that the SRS, with regrets that no one else will do so, and yet satisfied with what we are doing today, will only vote against Ivana Dulic-Markovic and against the Serbian government in this configuration, and history and citizens of Serbia will show who was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28046	Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic, replica. I don't know what he's referring to, I believe in the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28047	You weren't there, Mr. President. I've been mentioned by name, although in a rather altered form. No matter how much I believe Mr. Ivica Dacic knows my name and last name, it happened to him that he changed my last name to Nedeljkovic, I can understand that, it's really similar, but he made a pretty rough and unsalted joke at one point by calling me and Ljiljana Omerovic. It can be funny, but it's not for me. Mr. Dacic, don't divorce me, don't marry me, I'm a happily married woman, and I don't think that was really within the limits of good taste, because I could call you Ivica Zagranin, so I can't think of anything else. I understand your screaming, your screaming, or whatever it is you're saying, the full flight you're talking about today. I believe that a lot of energy was needed to convince all the MPs of your parliamentary group to vote today for the proposal to make Ivana Dulic-Markovic vice-president of this government. It's really a very difficult job, I guess, in relation to everything you've done about her and what she's done in the last few days, and what we've had a chance to listen to on TV and read in the paper. I congratulate you on that. I must also note that you will find it difficult for Serbian citizens to convince that, in addition to all the hard words spoken on both her and your part, it makes sense and that there is enough justification for all of this to be done as a defense to a Democratic Party who would come to power. So the lack of principle is what characterizes your policy and hopefully once you enter the Socialist International, it won't be your characteristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28048	I did not warn the speaker because I realized that the previous chairman did not warn you the same way, but, Mrs. Nestorovic, I ask you not to insult the dignity of this assembly. All people know what's on the agenda today. Mr Dacic did not propose, but was proposed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Dacic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28049	I reported to the Rules of Procedure, to say that I apologize to Mrs Ljiljani Nestorovic for mixing her last name: Nestorović and Nedeljkovic. I really apologize for that, although I don't know how, as a man who adheres to aesthetic principles, I could have mixed those two last names. Anyway, as far as this other guy is concerned, I said it was a good thing I didn't make such a mistake. I apologize if the joke or association was untasteful, because I have no intention of communicating with a colleague that I can communicate with and from the place I sit. Among other things, I also answered about another topic, and it is about Ivana Dulic. As far as I know, ma'am, you were on the party list that proposed to Ivan Dulic. How at that time Ivana Dulic was not distasteful to you and how she became to you now. How much effort did it take to convince you from that party that you were wrong when you participated in the elections on that list. Yet, we have not experienced such shame and suffered as you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28050	National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28051	Mr Dacicu, when we talked and negotiated with the G17 Plus party, I did not know who Mrs Dulic-Markovic was, and I do not believe that she would even be special, by her name and last name and as the case of that party, disputed both for me and for the SDP at one point, especially because of some of her views which, regardless of what she was involved in this government as a minister, she kept on saying. The problem is there's no consistency here and what it is, under these circumstances under which it really happens, more than hypocritically. We negotiated with the G17 Plus party because we felt that there were all reasonable reasons for those remarks, which the party, at the time it destroyed the previous government, to be respected. All the reasons are well-known to you, but apparently someone failed some of the arrangements and platforms on which we were building our agreement. It's not SDP. You know why we came out of this government, and it's a much smaller sin, not to support the privatisation law, which will prove to be, one of the most important, important public enterprises, but to negotiate with the opposition party on how to find arrest and after an extraordinary parliamentary election, since even that party, who participates in this government, is clear that there is no longer much of this story. Therefore, Dacic, when you talk about the reasons why we supported G17 plus, Ivana Dulic-Markovic has nothing to do with it. I say once again, she personally wouldn't be so controversial to us. The government's generally poor policy is not repairable by any reconstruction, and that is why the SDP will not vote for this reconstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28052	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28053	Since there is no Prime Minister here and there is no Labus, since there is no more government of Kostunica-Labus, I have to say something. I just wanted to tell Mrs. Ljila that, as far as I'm concerned, there's no problem in sharing all kinds of charms. Politics without controversy and without political struggle and fierceness has been missed and therefore I am absolutely against the calming of passion in this House. This is where we're supposed to fight, this is where we're supposed to compete, not calm each other down. Here we have to compete, and in public we have to build good relationships, not vice versa, here to keep quiet or here to kill each other, and in the hallway to drink whiskey and toast each other, and the people to slaughter themselves in Serbia thinking that everyone is fighting. Since I don't drink that, it doesn't apply to me. It doesn't apply to Mrs. Lilya either, so don't take it personally. According to Ljila, I have no aspirations other than political ones, which is usually consistent with the left. With no Prime Minister, I realized that the SDP did not leave the government, but the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica announced that the SDP, by their decision, is no longer in the government. Maybe I was wrong. It's not the president. It's hard for me to change him when I have to change someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28054	First MP Tomislav Kitanovic, then MP Meho Omerovic, and then MP Hranislav Peric will have a word. Otherwise, the whiskey in the hallway can drink the one who takes it with him, since you don't serve whiskey here.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28055	I'll vote for this proposal, no matter what I say. I will only vote because the Serbian Democratic Movement MPs' club will vote for this proposal, and since we are one team, we have to work together, as we have done so far, so that because of collegiation with my party friends, I will support this proposal. By the way, I singled out my opinion because I'm extremely unhappy with the behaviour of coalition partners, and above all with the G17 plus party. If we wanted to support everything offered to us earlier, when we were a single party, support some initiatives to withdraw the NATO Pact suit, we would welcome the election of Haradinaj as president of the criminal government in Kosovo, which is why we did not want to do so and why there was a dissension in the party. If the elections in the party were fair they'd probably have gotten to me, if it hadn't been for the removal of people who think otherwise, the removal of a board that thinks otherwise, making a situation that only one side has to gain in the party. That's why it happened in the party. In the party, we didn't want to give in, and we're probably not going to give in to some things that I called illegal last time, or things that kind of touch crime. The head of the parliamentary club, including the president of the G17 plus I warned that there was illegality in the party. They've never reacted before. We don't support the Blanco Government. We support the government, but we have demands not to get ministerial posts, as others do, as they have discussed on Palic how many more ministries they will receive, and then they calculated who will go to which ministry. We support the government because we think there's still potential and some things can be done better than they do now. We didn't have any demands in that sense to get some ministries, some places in the ministries, which means our relationship is correct. The Serbian Democratic Renewal Movement believes that our support, primarily to Prime Minister Kostunica, can produce some results, with much more and better work to do. We're not content with the work of the government, but we think some positive things have been done. In the end, I'd say something quite personal. With Prime Minister Kostunica, whom I highly appreciate, practically since the day he began to revive multi-party life in Serbia, practically from that letter on the Democratic Party's intentions, later in 1992 in the DSS, I was until 2003. The conflict didn't start with him. My conflict began with another man in the party, Dragan Marsicanin, about some things in Toplička County, in Kursumlia, about some events, about some things with the "July 7th" Confect Factory and about these things. Time has shown who was right. And now I ask the Prime Minister of the government to stand by the crime-fighting side, which is fighting corruption. I ask him to make some moves that this burden, which the people suffer, is a little more uniformly divided into as many people as possible, to somehow get everyone out of this crisis. Finally, I ask him to move a little more intensively around Serbia, come to southern Serbia, talk to people downstairs, where I think he will learn more concrete and accurate things than he learns from his municipal committees. I still have confidence in him, and I think there are more positive things to be done than it's ever been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28056	The word is made by MP Meho Omerovic, then by MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28057	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to address and welcome the respect of one of the members of the government, but as you can see, the Prime Minister is also running away from us, and the ministers have not even shown up. I don't even know if it's worth criticising the government of Vojislav Kostunica, after what we heard and saw at the end of the day a few minutes ago, by the MPs of the parties who make up that government or who support that same government. We heard that some of the members of the government had no demands about ministries and some places, as one of the previous speakers said. Does that mean some others did? There is no Prime Minister, but Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I do not envy Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica at all. Today, I do not envy him that here in the Serbian Parliament, there is something that cannot be explained and that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica himself does not believe. That's why it's no wonder he's repeatedly mentioned doing it just because it's such a coalition agreement and that those places belong to the party G17 plus. Only because, not because candidates deserve it with their work and quality. Where are the other ministers, everyone's wondering today, I really don't know. The order would be, if we wanted to regulate the state legally, and the Prime Minister cited it as one of the priorities in continuing the work of this government, that my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic, first and foremost spoke about it, submitted a proposal on amendments to the Law on Government, a proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys, and then a selection of deputy prime ministers and members of the same government, and only then would we go to personal solutions. Defence and foreign affairs are, don't mind me, I'm asking the honourable members of the government, I guess they're more important than the place that we're supposed to choose here today, especially if this state, this government, wants to make a priority, which is what the prime minister himself said in the opening statement, which is Kosovo. So, Kosovo and Metohija, because according to the Prime Minister, "the diplomatic activity that needs to be strengthened is under way". How are we going to strengthen this diplomatic activity, how are we going to do it if at the head of the Foreign Ministry we have a man, a person who falsely presents himself as a foreign minister, if at the head of the Ministry of Defense we have a person who falsely represents himself as a minister of defense, and how are we going to do so if, through the Government and thanks to the Government, we have appointed, I don't know how, the representative of the Chief of Staff of our army. As for the priorities that the prime minister himself spoke of, the priorities are unfortunately the same as before or less, but not because they are being solved, not dear fellow MPs, it is because these problems are disappearing, as was the case with Montenegro. When today this assembly chooses Ivana Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister, it will happen, allow me, historic reconciliation, but historic reconciliation between peaches and corpses. For Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, representatives of the political party, which the same Ivana Dulic-Markovic accused of carrying corpses in the freezers, will vote. It is good, however, that something unimaginable will happen here in the Serbian Parliament today. The SPS will, through its MPs, vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, acknowledge that everything she has said about the criminal activity of their late president and government that same SPS rules have been in the past 15 years. The SPS will therefore accept the error of its leadership. What is most important today, by voting for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, the SPS will also give up its President Slobodan Milosevic's destructive policies. Government Vice-President Ivana Dulic-Markovic has made every effort to publicly praise the image of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, the biggest Democrats, a reformer our Serbia had and unfortunately killed in his office or cabinet. Since it will be elected by the SPS MPs, so the party that fought against the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, I expect Ivana Dulic-Markovic to show a little more respect, may only take the picture of Zoran Djindjic off the wall of her office and at least do not insult the memory of the murdered Serbian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28058	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Of course, you'll get a replica. So, as far as the president is concerned, the Prime Minister is here in the Assembly, as well as ministers, some of them are on board, as you know, but I'm not giving you any detailed notice, but I'm surprised you don't recognize them. Mr. Lalovic was here today, it's the Minister of Labour and Employment, a black man, it's just amazing to me that you don't know him. This is Minister Naumov, and this is Minister Radulovic, but do not report it individually. Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28059	Mr. President, I'm glad I have a chance to speak this much today, I hope I'm not just going to beat Fidel Castro's record, but I have a break between those speeches. In any case, I am sorry that Mr. or Comrade Meho Omerovic is sincerely disappointed that the SPS will vote for the reconstruction of the government proposed by Vojislav Kostunica, as it is widely known that Comrade Meho Omerovic is a great respecter of the face and works of Slobodan Milosevic and his policies, and it is deeply affected by him. As far as we know, we reacted very strongly to what Ivana Dulic said. Ivana Dulic therefore had a conversation with our MP group, and as I know, and then I ask the question and now I ask the questions to whom it refers, because I am sure there is no reason for the SPS to feel called, when it has not already been called by Ivana Dulic. Otherwise, we think what she said about the state is bad, not the SPS, because that's not true. I've already said, among other things, that whose image is held on the wall is an absolutely variable category. And the president of your party kept different pictures on the wall, so he doesn't mind being president of your party; he held different pictures, I guess from Sloba, I don't know, now maybe he's holding his own, anyway. In any case, it doesn't matter at all, everyone has the right to respect a man, but they must respect those whose votes he has chosen, and that was the request of the SPS. What she thinks of us, believe me, we think of her three times worse than she thinks of us, and that's what we said. But there is a reason more, there is in the criteria and the grading why something is done the SPS did all this when it supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Among other things, to remove those images from the walls you're talking about, because it wasn't the biggest Democrats in this country, because it was killed by those with whom he came to power on October 5th and with whom he arrested Slobodan Milosevic and, of course, you lived still living in the country of the witness-co-worker. Therefore, we will certainly, as far as we are concerned, do everything, no matter how much we do not love Ivana Dulic-Markovic, to prevent witnesses from appearing in the role of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, I am sure we will.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28060	The Messenger of the people is Hestoslav Peric, and then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Masic, and the messenger of the people, Sasa Vitošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Vice President Pop-Lazic, the Honorable Ministers, that I knew that such an explanation would be submitted by the head of our parliamentary club, might not have applied for the discussion, because he said everything, but when I'm registered, I will say something, because I think that every speaker today should say the reason why he votes or does not vote for the proposals tabled by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister proposes to be Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Dulic and suggests a minister of agriculture. These are two important places in the government, and I believe, Mr. President, that the Prime Minister had to stay a little longer to hear all the discussions, and we should talk about everyone, especially when we choose to say everything. Perhaps, when he hears what is going to be said here about Ivana Dulic-Markovic, he would eventually withdraw those proposals so as not to vote on them. We Socialists, as the president explained well, do not vote and it should be clear to all of us, we are voting for Ivana Dulic, but we are voting for the government of Kostunica, because we believe that there is currently no better man on the political scene to perform the role of the Prime Minister than Vojislav Kostunica. That's our reason for voting. We have to say that we are dissatisfied and there are many mistakes, and perhaps ministers will pass on, even though it boasts here and it is said that a lot has been done in agriculture, the state still does not have a strategy for agriculture, and that we socialists at every turn are criticising it, and in some discussions we have even demanded that this issue come on the agenda, to talk openly about what the state thinks about agriculture, how much it wants to invest in this branch. I think that's the perspective of this country, but despite what you're saying is that there's a lot of work done in that vault, we don't think so, and we expect the agriculture strategy to come on the agenda. In a harsh explanation, the Prime Minister said a lot of credits have been shared. Credits are shared, but it's a big question to whom they're shared. It is known in Serbia, I think that the citizens of Serbia are following it today, this session, because it is important, and it is clear to everyone because they experience it in practice when they apply for credit, they are told openly, you have to be a member of a particular party, so you will be able to get a loan. Further what is happening in Serbia, which should not be happening among the parties, I think it is in action and that these are the proposals and the staff policy of G17, which is going on in the field as follows: if you want to hold a store, if you want to hold a shop, you are immediately invited by the Director of Tax Administration and says - either you will be a member of G17 or that store will not last long. All traders must join the party G17. We'd have to discuss this another way. As for the locals, and where certain parties are in power, I think there's something going on that hasn't happened in Serbia's history. The reception of workers in local self-government is duplicated. If there were 30 workers, they're on their way to 60. For the first time since you and the coalition have been in power I hear there's a driver and a deputy driver, a secretary and a deputy, a coffee cook, a replacement for the coffee cook. If there were 30 workers in that local administration, he's 60 now. Local administrations only work for wages. Because of that and everything else, I think the prime minister is facing temptation today, and I think he's going to have a great responsibility because of the proposals he made, but we're not going to bother him, he's probably going to see it. We're saying this because we don't want it to happen bad, because when we were in power, we had a bad experience with JUL, which is why we want to warn a little prime minister. Next question, Mr. President, I thought I'd ask the Prime Minister a question... Is there no Markovic? When it's right, he's always gone. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: He is not here.) ) The next question heard today at the pay phone, says the head of the G17 parliamentary club, Mr Albianic, that it is most important that we co-operate with Europe and agree with it, is not disputed. It's not going to be Europe with us. Europe wants to order and Europe wants to blackmail. It's on a political scene in Serbia today. I have the impression that when Albianic comes out after the pay phone and talks about Serbia, I am in Germany. When I get out, I just see it's not that. The next question I want to ask today, the mentioned DSS and so on, is whether the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, if we are a serious state, can affect this Tadic, not to go, not to wander around these games at the world championships, because where he goes, we experience a disaster. Tadic, if anyone understands politics, did not go there to help our team win, but went to convince Petkovic to let Sava Milosevic go because he was at all the stands in the campaign. He can't turn like a chiffon and take six pieces. Negotiations Dinkic - Dulic - DS. It's a good proposal and every day they repeat it in the paper. Every day, Dinkic's statement -- we want to negotiate, we want to negotiate this. But Tadic won't negotiate, that's the problem, he won't take you in for a conversation. The next question was, there were a lot of words and a lot of talk about what DS, how they ruled and so on, said the head of our parliamentary club, Mr. Ivica Dacic, but in practice, Prime Minister Kostunica. When he ruled the DS, Kostunica was nothing, they took everything from him and they brought him down to nothing. Go ahead, negotiate and make a coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28062	The word is Mr. Zoran Mašić, and let the MP Sasa Vitošević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28063	Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me at the beginning of this presentation, just so I don't mind the competence for this area that I'm going to talk about today, I want to say that I am a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, a scientific adviser at the Scientific Institute for Veterinary and a longtime director of this institute, that I am the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that I was able to actively follow through the work of the Ministry of Agriculture in the past period. I believe that what I will present to both you and the public today will be arguments that I already made last week, when we discussed the proposal for a law on agricultural land, presented and then suggested to Mrs Dulic, that it is high time to step down from that place as Minister of Agriculture. In public, it was announced that it would be run for vice president, which is even higher than the minister, but the Prime Minister, that this government would survive, was most likely forced to accept these solutions offered by G17 and to propose to Ms. Ivan Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Goran Zivkov as minister. I'd just like to start with what kind of explanation was given for these two candidates. I think it's inadmissible for one government, and it's an insult to our MPs, to defile the biography like this, with such pervasive data, that we are given such important functions for these two candidates. I don't want to be maligned and say that this is just that they've done it in their working life and in their lives, but it's really inadmissible to get with this kind of detail to explain and especially give some things that don't even stand. I'll start with Mrs. Dulic's biography. Its work on work experience has been held since 1985 by the Institute for Research in Agriculture, Serbia, the Centre for Fruit and Vineyards, Cačak, and stands as a scientific associate. Mrs. Dulic began working there in 1985, calling a scientific associate is obtained by doctorate of science and by choosing to call it. Mrs. Dulic doctored in 1999, so she could have been a scientific associate at the end of 1999 or 2000, not in any way standing here in 1985, because it is from the framework of her work experience as an apostrophe. That's exactly what experts in G17 say, if you look at her when she was born, when she was a doctor, then she came to a doctorate when she was 38. Maybe that's not so bad for our chances, but still not to be called by someone who's worse than her, I'm going to say that I was a 27-year-old doctor and I was a 33-year-old scientist at 45. However, I certainly do not want to publicly promote and run here as future minister, my party will decide, and I am very grateful to the SRS that only in its ranks and that I can go ahead of the SRS and perform in this House. As for the second candidate, the candidate for future minister, Mr. Zivkov, I think this biography and this proposal is an insult to a large number of agricultural experts in our country, who have also made a major contribution in the area of agriculture and agricultural science, that someone with this kind of biography, with this kind of working experience, be a minister of agriculture. The practice in this country of ours was, at least as far as this portfolio is concerned, that the ministers of agriculture were either the prominent directors of agricultural combinations, or the doctors of science in the area of agriculture. I only mention a few names, certainly these are all people who didn't belong to the SRS, most of them belonged to the SPS, and since 2000 they've been normal to DOS. Mr. Veljko Simin, Dr. Jan Kišgeci, Ivko Djonović, Director of PIK "Tavo", Dr. Jovan Babović, also professor with PhD, Mr. Zivan Radovanchev, Director of the Milky Way in Zrenjanin, and since the establishment of DOS power, Dr. Vesenov, and Dr. Stojan Jevtic, and certainly Mrs. Ivana Dulic. Now some practice is changing, someone who has completed a four-year agricultural college is running for four years, has completed it in six years, has been working experience in the sector for plant and animal genetic resources from 1998 to 2001, then he was some kind of representative in the FAO and managed by some three or four projects, although it says here that he had an advisory function, a consulting function, in fact, but I also have some other biography that he had handed over to the Ministry, which shows what he was doing in that FAO, and then he's an aide to the Minister of Agriculture since 2004. Gentlemen, you who are running for such an expert in the field of agriculture need to really imagine if you are insulting, whether first in your ranks, even though you are an expert party, you have no better candidate and if such a proposal can be freely said to thousands of experts with doctorates, masters or specialities or people who have great experience in the field of agricultural production. Are you truly honestly convinced that a man like this, with this kind of work experience, his professional education will be a successful and quality minister of this kind of significant economic field of agriculture? We in the SRS are absolutely not that opinion, and we believe that this is an insult to all agricultural experts. It is incomprehensible that Mrs Dulic is not listed any reference, which she published in the field of her scientific and professional work during her period. She has called a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture in Banja Luka, and it is not normal to expect Mr. Zhivkov to list any references except what is stated in the biography. So if we just get out of this, it can absolutely be clear to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that these candidates, especially the candidate for future agriculture minister, have no significant prerogatives and qualifications, except that they have completed the agricultural college of direction - warfare and vegetables. Now I'd like to say with a few words that it's from the establishment of this power, i.e. Putting in office of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been completely taken over by the G17 plus, just since the arrival of the minister and her associates, and by the way, as far as I know only Mr Krnjajic has a PhD in science, they have remained there mostly without a doctorate, except for Mrs Dulic, but they are all qualified as top experts in the field of agriculture, certainly including Mr Zivkova. And immediately they shared associates, who had already worked here and who had worked for years, on ours and theirs, and those from earlier times and earlier, were fired, so that according to personal knowledge, about 60 workers from the Ministry and from the administrations that exist within the Ministry were fired for the past two and a half years, and at the same time people were received exclusively by party membership. Furthermore, it is very unclear and it is little and funny that since the beginning of the formation of this ministry and the immigration in Germany 24, on the ninth floor, Mrs. former Minister Ivana Dulic and Mr. Zivkov were in one cabinet, although when entering the right was always the cabinet of the minister, on the left hand side of the first assistant. They must have been in the same cabinet from the beginning, headed to the table, and negotiated there, since Mr. Zivkov was certainly the chief creator and ideologist of the Ministry of Agriculture, because he worked most on the long-term strategy of agricultural development. It's so presented in his public debate that she's been led about. So I don't think in the history of the ministries there was anything like that that the minister and the assistant shared the same cabinet, although thank God there are a lot of cabinets on that ninth floor, where they can normally settle and where other associates are housed. Furthermore, what I want to apostrophe is precisely the relationship both with co-workers within the Ministry and with the co-workers, i.e. scientific researchers or people from science and education in agrarian. The minister's relationship with the ministry has been extremely unsupervised. For Mrs. Dulic and Mr. Zivkov, and other associates, most of the professors from the agricultural colleges, both from Zemun and Novi Sad, Cačka etc. Improper experts, age-old experts, or not to say, the people of the Institute of War and Ventilation from Novi Sad or Zemun Polje here from Zemun, most of these people who were engaged and engaged in science in the field of agrarians, were professionally and scientifically inadequate, but only with a few of those who promoted them, their politics, had good relations and supported them. So such a relationship and such a policy as a minister can be expected nothing further to be expected to have a different relationship now as vice-president of the government, with an even greater function, towards such important people with higher education, PhDs in the field of agrarian science, now that it is in the position of Deputy Prime Minister. I think it can only be a pity for our agriculture, not a benefit, the appointment of Mrs. Dulic as Deputy Prime Minister or in the extreme Mr. Zivkov, who has been educated with Mrs. Dulic and who will most likely continue such a policy and such a relationship with the largest number of our scientific and educational institutions and people in the area. Only those who praise and promote them will be like them. To return to what they have done during the past period of their term of office, meaning Minister and Assistant, in the field of agrarians. Let's start with a long-term development strategy for agriculture, which was adopted at the government last August. Although the public debate lasted a long time, and a large number of objections and suggestions were given to the text which was in the public debate, most of the scientific and professional public, except for those who opened the Ministry's website, could not be notified of the final text, but no one, nor us MPs, nor the largest number of citizens, because nowhere was it printed to be seen. But, I want to say, this long-term strategy is planned to be made in this country, in the term of this agriculture ministry, precisely because I have looked at this document, 35 laws in the field of agriculture and 34 different other acts, sublegal acts, decisions, establishment of agencies, etc. Last year was planned, I already said that, and my predecessors repeated, the adoption of 14 laws, three laws were passed. This year 15 laws are planned, of which in the first quarter of six laws. And it is planned to adopt 28 regulations, because this agriculture ministry essentially defines and implements laws, because there is no law and regulations reforming our agriculture, which does not exist anywhere in the world, but rather new modern laws are passed, through which certain areas, including agriculture, are reformed. From this pay phone I have mentioned several times, and I will repeat every time the people of this ministry are mentioned, that they have done nothing in the field of agriculture legislation, and if nothing, there is only reason why there is a whole set of things, the government, the Prime Minister, had the basis not to hold these people, but to relieve them of their function, especially not to appoint them to some new or more functions. But, I mean, in our country, anything is possible. What has been done relatively well and this government, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, has been doing, are the incentives that have been allocated in the Republic's budget over the last two years. And this time I repeat that it is not the sole merit of the Ministry of Agriculture, especially the G17, but of all parties who voted or supported the draft budget, both on committees and here in the National Assembly. These are the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they are budgeted to improve agricultural production. What we in the SRS most resent, it is precisely total intransparency in the allocation of these funds. And repeatedly argued, with the papers, we proved who these people were who were getting these incentive funds, I mean, first of all, long-term. Short-term funds were received primarily by those who registered their agricultural holdings, with the obligation to return within a year. We certainly do not claim that a significant advantage was given to those belonging to the G17, but long-term assets are those that are significantly larger, which are more significant and that have been given from 5,000 euros to 200,000 euros, we have tons of arguments that have largely been given to people belonging to the G17 or who support them and promote them. There was mentioned this name of the agricultural producer association, or as they say - paraora 100 P+, again with the sign plus, where the name of Mr. Maleshev, who leads it, Mr. Dragisa Boric and his brother, Mr. Vukic spoke about it, there is Mr. Miroslav Ivkovic's name from Žednik, who also received about hundreds of thousands of euros, and wherever they arrive on one of the local televisions or gatherings and how they strongly promote Mrs. Dulic and the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Novakovic, there will be an opportunity for you to come out here for a pay phone, so that you can publicly deny me, don't throw away, courtesy and your age don't deserve that. Please be correct. The agriculture ministry is also promoting through this proposal for a law on agricultural land to fight tycoon, and it is very much helping them and most directly affecting that these new agro-businesses are coming to state land, to processing facilities. Last time, I was talking about a relationship with Mr. Miskovic and Mr. Zivkov's direct assistance, as president of the tender commission for the sale of 7,000 hectares of Unity from Apatino to the company "Delta". I will present the latest data from the official messenger of June 5th, where 2,139 hectares of Baemek's land are leased for rent, at a price of 7,487,986 dinars, to Mr Matijević also, owner of the Meat Industry from Novi Sad and once new agro-businessmen; the price of the lease, if the number of hectares and this amount is calculated, comes out about 3,000 and not 100 dinars. It's, of course, below the cost of real costing the lease. So the law that we are considering at the session of the Assembly that is currently under way should determine how and procedures to rent state land. It is clear there that the lowest purchase price cannot be lower than 70% of the rental price in the bar. What Mr Matijević paid for, paid for by Mr Boric, is significantly below the cost of renting state land in these municipalities. This ministry, i.e. key people, is directly in favour of those who are officially attacking and calling them tycoons or these new agrobusinesses. Not to say how these budgets were handled, i.e. which banks had the exclusive right to give state resources to encourage agriculture. First of all, these are banks that are the most directly related to G17, such as the National Savings Bank, which has given the most convincingly short-term loans, the Commercial Bank, Delta Bank, the Vojvodjanska Banka. The banks through which long-term loans were granted, it is the Commercial Bank, again the National Savings Bank and the Vojvodjanska Banka. I think the citizens of Serbia know who is behind these banks and which exclusively or exclusively right they had or should have these banks, because there are also certain party ties and interests. The next thing I want to say, it's the Ministry of Agriculture's relationship to the production of certain cultures that represented the tradition of growing in our spaces, first of all, it's wheat. Just by running propaganda from the top of the Ministry of the Anti-Future Ministry, this year we have come into a situation that we will have either the least seeded and possibly the smallest breed, and because of these rains, floods and all, and it may happen that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have to provide additional funds for the import of wheat by the end of this year, because by experts dealing with this business, we are seriously doubting that for the first time as a state, we will not have enough wheat to feed our population. Last year at least about a billion dinars for the storage of wheat were allocated in the budget and aided agricultural producers. This year, only 200 million dinars have been identified for these purposes. So, the Ministry of Agriculture will not, through this measure, pay for the storage of wheat to those who will have something to do this year to help store that wheat, but, if they do not sell it, they will most likely have to pay by their own means of storage. As for subsidisation and predominance in the area of agricultural production, milk with a price that has not changed in two years: four dinars for the mountainous area, three dinars for the flat-rate. We can ask all the expensive milk producers how the premiums are paid regularly and how much those who deal with this production get, but there's a premium, and that's how it is for now. In the end, we welcome it, because that inadequate price is being corrected at which the milkers buy, and we know who bought the milkers and who owns those milkers, which is also the fault of the previous government, and you've inherited it for good. What is subsidized by agricultural cultures in this year, it is an oil tail, which is certainly a significant industrial plant and will be significant for the next period for the production of biodiesel, but the total amount that it predominates is insufficient to stimulate those who would produce this culture. Next, the hops, then the tobacco, even though the entire tobacco industry is nationalized, and the oily pumpkins. Let me take a look at what I do, and that's an improvement in livestock production. The idea was that livestock farming should improve significantly in this past period. However, the majority of the incentives allocated last year have just been allocated to improve livestock farming. Those who are involved in this area can self-evaluate how much has been promoted, precisely because many of them have been living on this job, have been given incentive means to import, even though they are not engaged in livestock production, but to import and resell or adjudicate heifers, or subsidized nicknames, or to import sperm from quality bulls or non-growings. In fact, they were reselling it, and on those funds they got from the state, they were making extra money. The total resources allocated for these purposes are insufficient to make it more seriously possible to improve livestock production. This year, 452 million were allocated for the total regression of breeding cattle, and for the selection measures in livestock, which are one of the most important for the promotion, only 120 million. It is absolutely not enough to significantly improve livestock production. What we have, especially in this country, unregulated, is market instability, so that all those who deal with pig production, especially in the private sector, have serious problems, because the price has fallen below each level. The problem is to sell that pig meat to and when to charge. Basically, very few livestock products are exported. The quality of our cattle and livestock products is at a low level, among other things, and because there are no laws that should have been passed, let's say, the law on food safety, which was meant to establish exactly that standard of quality and health security, such as Europe and this modern world. Not to mention the problem in the veterinary profession after the new law was passed, where privatisation and transformation were to be carried out and a new sublaw adopted, that nothing significant was done and that the state service was almost completely destroyed. As for improving life in the countryside or supporting rural development of the village, it involves improving production and plasma, strengthening rural infrastructure and developing rural areas and protecting the environment, for all these purposes around 700 million dinars were planned in the budget this year. It would be good if these funds were fully realised, but compared to previous years' experience, but it is known that the budget rebalance, which was mostly in July, or some other shifts, is precisely in this rural development of villages much less isolated, so that our villages are old year by year, less and less young people remain there and the growing problem will be with the processing of this agricultural land and livestock farming, above all, which was the tradition of our peasants, our farmers. This plan took a lot more than that. In the end, just a few more minutes, let me say that we've been through it, and especially this year, we've had a lot of damage to the flood. The agriculture ministry, along with some other ministries, is also very inadequate and did not properly help and damage those agricultural producers who suffered from floods and spills of rivers. Some in the Banat area have not been paid for these damages day and day. Those who have received the funds simply do not know if they have received from a destroyed land, based on the injured cattle or destroyed livestock. What is particularly unclear to me is that there is nothing in the budget of the Republic of Serbia this year, and last year more funds were allocated to protect us from floods, so objectively, we are at risk of even greater damage next year, even more floods than we had during this, past and some previous years. Dear Members of the Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I think that what I have been able to say in this time is enough for everyone to assess how much this is the agriculture ministry, headed by Mrs Dulic and Mr Zivkov as an assistant, has done for the area and interest of agricultural production in our country. Our opinion as an SRS is that these are people who don't deserve any state functions and that simply that area should be taken over by some who will work more responsibly and more seriously. It is my suggestion, Mr. Prime Minister, that you seriously consider this proposal and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28064	Replication to personal mention, MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28065	Dear Members of Parliament, as a Democrats in the soul since day one, I have been fighting for the right of every MP, yes, by sticking to the agenda and the subject on the agenda, saying stupid things, and that's not forbidden by the Rules of Procedure, but it's forbidden, and that's why I reacted from the scene when it's a lie from this pay phone. The repeated lie becomes the truth in the ears of the public, which is why I contacted Dr. Zoran Mašić on the line. The names you mentioned, I wouldn't mention them, I forgot them, they're not members of the G17 Plus party, at least so far. We checked in just in case, because we don't know people. So I was afraid at one point that you would put Mr. Peter Matiević among the G17 Plus members. You're not, and thank you for that. We are honored to have the party G17 plus bound by sympathisers, such as members of the Association of Para 10O P plus, the elite association of elite couples in Vojvodina. It's an honor if you think so. Unfortunately, it's not true. They are only fighting for their own better status and praise what is good, in this case the moves of the Minister, the Ministry of Agriculture and this Government, as much as they criticise when they think something is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28066	Just a moment, Mr. Novakovic, no expression of lies, no expression of stupidity, did not refer to a specific MP. Otherwise you'd get a warning. We won't allow an insult to the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28067	I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I think the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr. Novakovic insulted me here, but I won't repay him with the same measure. Citizens can judge for themselves and judge for themselves. I will be prepared, as I have publicly brought out here, and publicly apologize to the very people you claim are not members of G17, but what these people do, which you are so warmly praising, 100 P plus, they exclusively promote G17 plus, exclusively promote the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, only promote Mrs Ivana Dulic as minister, and those people were just in Vienna on June 2nd at a meeting, gathered by Ms Ivana Dulic, before whom she said that if she did not pass the agricultural land law as she suggested, she would resign as Minister of Agriculture. She submitted to go to higher office and was saddened to submit to higher office, should have been removed from the post of Minister of Agriculture. So, this group of 100 P plus, these are new Arendas, as farmers call them, these are the people who got, precisely the party belongings and sympathys expressed publicly towards G17 plus, the incentive funds, bought the machinery, separated a little money to take the country into the arena and on these state funds, the money of our citizens, they get rich, and at the same time they promote you. I said it the last time, and I repeat now, all those you gave money to and those you didn't give it to, so our farmers will vote in the next SRS election, and that will show time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28068	The word of the messenger of the people is Sasa Vitoshević, and the messenger of the people of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28069	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, honourable members of the Government, fellow MPs, I am very pleased that my fellow MP Mr Masic has finally returned the topic which is otherwise the point of the agenda, which is the choice of Deputy Prime Minister, the choice of Minister of Agriculture, which, of course, means that today we are analysing, together with Prime Minister, the results that these senior government officials have had in the past period. I really thank him, without any irony, Mr. Mašić, don't take this the wrong way, because I want to talk about it today and try to explain to you the MPs, and of course to the citizens of Serbia who are following this meeting, why it is necessary to support Ivana Dulic-Markovic's election as Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Goran Zivkov's election as Minister of Agriculture. Of course, what's the basic principle of G17 plus is that we've never personified an entire single policy through one person. We are the development programme of agriculture, which was defined in the year 98 and today we are implementing it as it is, and we can analyze what is being implemented and what is not. A good part of the programme, which otherwise cannot be called a political declaration because it is agriculture, is a generally agrarian policy, is outlined in the Agriculture Development Strategy, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I also, as a member of the Parliament, strongly advocate that, if the government decides, it will come to an examination in the Assembly and that the Assembly has adopted it, so that in the coming years, because it is a long-term strategy, these rules that are mentioned to be brought not only to the mandate of this government but to the whole period covered by the agriculture strategy. Also, one of the basic principles of G17 plus is teamwork. That's why we can't have a whole agrarian policy to personify through Ivana Dulic-Markovic, through Mr Goran Zivkova, because the whole team of people, and that's people who aren't members of G17 plus, are working in that ministry, who have worked before and can be very easily checked. It also imputes days of collaboration with science. Just to remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture is not involved in science. The Ministry of Agriculture encourages projects that are in the domain of agricultural science, veterinary science, and of course there is a ministry that should be involved in science and you know well who the minister is and who runs this ministry. Of course, this teamwork we advocate has just produced results during the term of office of Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic. In order to be able to analyze the results well, which my colleague Mr. Masic has been doing all this time, is that we need to remember what was found in Serbian agriculture, so we can also talk about 2000 and 2003, when this government took over the mandate. I'll go back a little bit in history, I'll be very brief, but we have to, in order to take a picture of the difference and see clearly what was done in the past. Two thousand were found Serbian agriculture without a clear strategy, without a clear path that could be handled by agricultural producers. The state administration, through the instruments it owned at the time, was solely concerned about large complexes, so the combined ones, and it's obvious that this concern has not yielded results, because we know what condition they are combined in today. At that time, agriculture, not only it, but also other branches, but we are talking about it today, was protected by high customs duties and was practically not fully exposed to the impact of competitiveness, so it could not adequately develop, but the agricultural producers were simply tucked in, were not able to operate marketly, and thus had no motive to develop both their own holdings and to improve agricultural production. I also remind you then they were in effect import licences, both agricultural and food products, as well as import licences for repromation for agriculture. I will also remind you that these permits have been granted completely non-transparently, which, of course, has led to the riching of certain companies, which today can perform and do what we all witness in Serbian agriculture. Agriculture didn't have any quality sources of funding at the time. Let me remind you, by 95, Serbian agriculture was financed exclusively from primary emissions, which led to hyperinflation, not only because of the financing of agriculture, but also other branches of economy, to a complete collapse of the entire state-wide system in Serbia. Only from 1995 to 2003 were agriculture, whether it was legal persons, whether it was agricultural holdings, had access to expensive bank loans. So, it wasn't possible in any other way, and we know that our couples and our peasants couldn't finance their own forces, and they didn't have access to banks, because we know what kind of situation the banks were in, which means that agriculture was left to the verse. In 2003, according to the World Bank analysis, only 20m euros, I say, since there were no other sources of funding, the banks placed, mostly investments in the agricultural sphere. I will remind you that in 2005, also according to analyses by world institutions, 500m euros were invested in agriculture, not in the food industry, but I am talking about agriculture, and this includes direct investments that this government of Prime Minister Kostunica and the ministry, of course from the budget, because these are the money of Serbian citizens, invested in agriculture through long-term loans, through short-term loans, through grants and, of course, subsidies on various grounds. Also, what everyone has understood in Serbia since 2000, and it has started to produce results only recently, you will agree with me, it is impossible to fix things so quickly that have been destroyed for years for a variety of reasons, because we know what this country was in, and under sanctions, exposed to other pressures, and it is not just about policies that have been conducted, and these negative influences cannot be corrected in such a short time. Personally, I wish this had been the Ministry of Agriculture in recent years since it has managed Serbian agriculture done much more, but I believe they have done everything they can and how much financial resources in the budget have allowed them to do so. What is important, agriculture is no longer a test of patriotism in the Republic of Serbia, and I will remind you that in the 1990s it was a test of patriotism, because there were no other instruments to stimulate people to deal with agriculture, but to call for food security, that food must be produced, and yet at the time of hyper inflation, you promise the price of wheat, while the wheat is paid, that price loses its real market value. I would also like to remind myself that at that time there were protected prices or protection prices, which also made it impossible for farmers to operate commercially and kept that social peace, of course, for justifiable reasons, not to say that it was done on purpose to harm farmers, but simply that policy did not produce long-term good results. So this was some sort of congested state so you could figure out what was done over the past period. Also, very important data, I apologize for going back to the past period, from 92 to 2000, agriculture was in that period, so in five years, had a negative growth rate, and for example, I'm going to give you a 21% growth rate below the level of 1992, so a catastrophic situation. What did the Ministry of Agriculture do? I'll try global numbers first. A chronic negative balance of external trade between eight years, so from 1996 to 2003, it was seven years, it was negative, and then it was, say, an average of about 410 million US dollars. In 2004, it was $925 million, so almost twice as many or almost a billion. In addition to organizational changes, the Department of Plant Protection, the Veterinary Administration, has been formed, and will soon be adopted when a law on agricultural land and land management is passed, so in a very high-quality and organizational modern way, the Ministry is being trained to meet the demands of farmers. Often in the past, the question has been raised as to who the beneficiaries of the agrarian budget, to whom the Ministry of Agriculture addressed, but it was not known and therefore, immediately after the establishment of the new government's authorities, organised the project, and implemented it to this day very successfully, the registration of agricultural holdings. A huge number, or over 200,000 agricultural holdings, is registered and is now known to whom the Ministry of Agriculture addresses, to whom money is given, how it is spent and can monitor the results achieved on these agricultural holdings. Also, during last year, a social component was introduced, which is that the so-called so-called "registration" has been identified in the context of registered agricultural holdings. non-commercial agricultural holdings, therefore, those non-marketable holdings, are a good part of these landowners, and these households are actively assisted through grants. It is politics and these governments and G17 plus, and that is the process of transformation and transition is difficult, and we have to help those who cannot cope with this process so that all, therefore, as a complete people can overcome this difficult period. A programme of measures has also been developed to encourage the development of agricultural production, and this has already been said by previous speakers, a model of short- and long-term lending, and this fund is increasing year by year, and these are direct investments in agriculture. We all know in what state agricultural machinery was found. Many of these funds have been invested precisely in modernising agricultural machinery. 5,000 long-term loans, 33,000 short-term loans and 8,000 grants for projects that are very transparently approved. It's said here, I hope not for evil's sake, one lie. Namely, the minister is said to be sitting there in the cabinet, and he's about to share those agricultural loans as he arrives and as he pleases. I must remind the public that the distribution of long-term and short-term loans, according to defined criteria by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are carried out by commercial banks selected in the tender. There are 25 of them for this year. So, don't lead the citizens of Serbia astray. It also started with the implementation of a major project for the modernisation of agricultural professional services, and primarily based on the experience of transition countries, and a large number of professional gatherings and seminars were held and is actively working on it, because as my colleague Mašić said, there is no agriculture without science. It is science conducted at universities, at institutes, that the Ministry of Agriculture, through the function of professional services, should be implemented on the ground, not that the Ministry of Agriculture is involved in science. A market information system has been introduced in agriculture, which provides for the monitoring of the evolution of the prices of basic agricultural products on the market and enables all agricultural producers to define how and how they will sell their products and at what price. There is a very detailed analysis of the imports of agricultural protection under which the Institute of the so-called Institute is analysed in detail. Special duties on imports of agricultural and food products, in particular in light of the improvement of the ongoing dialogue with the EU. Why this is so important. It is just very important that it would not happen, as many fear, that there will not be enough bread in this country, cattle food, that some spokesmen of Bogoljub Karic, who were behind this speaker, will not wave salads again. So, there must be an agricultural product balance monitoring institute to take care of the safety of the population in the food sector. In that context, the ministry came out with very precise analyses, as it tries to panic the population that there will be no sufficient bread grain. I'll only read you two parameters. The fruit of the wheat in 2005 was 2,007,000 tonnes. The expected birth for 2006 is 1,600,000 kilograms. For already known reasons, not because the Ministry of Agriculture led a campaign against wheat sowing, which is not true, but because agrimeteorological conditions were unfavourable during 2005 and 2006. To remind you that the initial stock was 461,858 tonnes. The expected stocks at the time of harvest will be about 252,000 tonnes. The needs for feeding our population are about 1,800,000 tons. Do your own math on whether we'll have enough wheat. And whether or not this is being sown by the Ministry or not, one culture, sow corn, sow wheat, that the Ministry does not and will never work. Therefore, for the first time, agricultural producers can decide for themselves on the basis of market conditions which they are most likely to be paid to sow. Gentlemen, do you underestimate our farmers so much? Can anyone make him sow wheat, if he can't earn 9,000 dinars per hectare, especially in the conditions of the market that rule in our country, if he can deal with vegetables, fruits or a set of some industrial cultures. Of course not, we have come out of the conducting economy, we have no more protection prices institutes, the state can correct with certain measures and instruments, which is also defined by strategy, in which way and in which direction Serbian agriculture should go. A farmer should decide which way and which of these paths he will choose to use. Also in today's debate, a question of genetically modified organisms has been raised, or as GMO food is precisely said. For several times, I also remind the public, and you, fellow MPs, in 2001, was just at the initiative of Ivana Dulic-Marković, who was the director of the Federal Institute for Genetic Resources, Animal and Plant Genetic Resources, passed a law in the federal parliament on genetically modified organisms. It is precisely this law that fully regulates the area of production, import and research in the area of genetically modified organisms. You can't in any way impute her that she's responsible for this area. It is responsible, but for introducing order into the area, and it is in the debate and the organic farming law, which will also detailed the marking of end products if they contain genetically modified organisms. Please, don't abuse the ignorance of our public, because it's a tight area. I can't even allow myself to discuss this area, because it's extremely complicated, but I'm saying, and it's known to you that this area is finally under control. She wasn't dressed before 2000. Also, you are calling for this government or as you said G17 plus to have animosity to certain institutes, scientific institutions, colleges. Just to remind you, Mr. Malešević is the director of the Institute of Ratio and Vrtivstvo in Novi Sad. You know the government is the founder of this institute. If this government had anything against Mr. Malesevic, it would probably have changed him by now. Please don't spread such misinformation. Mr. Malešević is an extraordinary expert. The fact that Mr. Malesevic presents certain political assessments, I have personally called on Professor Malesevic to then establish a political party, and you know well that Mr. Malesevic has a political party, not only does he not call on it, but he steps forward as director of the institute and presents certain political assessments. Oh, my God, I'm really taking this for freedom to say on behalf of Ivana Dulic-Markovic that Ivana was a student of individual foreign companies. Unfortunately, at that time when she could be a scholarship student, this country was under sanctions, so few people could use scholarships. Don't, first learn to pronounce certain companies properly, and then impute someone that he was a scholarship to some foreign companies, which, of course, is not evil. God forbid as many of our experts as possible are foreign company scholarships. Why Ivana Dulic-Markovic as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister? I know why G17 plus proposed to Prime Minister Kostunica Ivan Dulic-Markovic. I believe I know why Mr. Kostunica supported it and suggested it to parliament. Because Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic was a key man on Professor Labus' team in negotiations with the EU. You are well aware that the most sensitive segment of the negotiations and the signing of the agreement that awaits us in the future is exactly the area of agriculture, agricultural policy. That is why Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, with a whole team of people working in the government of the Republic of Serbia, can bring the job to an end and continue. That is why Ivana Dulic-Markovic should be Deputy Prime Minister, in addition to other functions, to continue this very important job on European integration. I believe and I know, and that's what I said at the beginning, that G17 plus the only thing that supports it is teamwork, that Mr. Goran Zivkov, as future agriculture minister, will, if this parliament chooses him, be extremely good at continuing to do the job of the Minister of Agriculture that was started, because he is only part of the team, and not he as an individual to lead the entire ministry. The practice was interrupted in 2000, at least when it comes to G17+, and we will try to pass on such principles to other parliamentary parties, because only teamwork can make this country better. If we leave power in the hands of individuals, gentlemen, we will return to dictatorship. I thank you and invite you to support these candidates for the post of Prime Minister and Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28070	The word of the messenger of the people is Pai Momchilov; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nadika Momirov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28071	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here we are today discussing the reconstruction of the government in a strange way, in the atmosphere of pogroms, I am free to say, which is headed against the Serbian Radical Party. No wonder, interestingly, given the circumstances, it is the person we should support in this parliament to be vice-president of the Serbian government, at times when the Serbian people and the Serbian state may be the most difficult in their history, that the leader of the pogrom says that a party should be banned because of fascist action, because of the hate speech, all of the warm human dictionaries access the elimination of someone in order to be something. As much as memory and knowledge serves to become, if you're going to eliminate someone, it is a Nazi and fascist principle that is well-known. But let's leave it alone, the evidence of how anyone behaves, and what they say about others, we have enough, is just one interesting piece of information that I'm about to say. I know it might be dangerous to say. The anti-Semitic work of Prime Minister Kostunica's government in Serbia has proved so. Where the center of this anti-Semitic action is, it's easy to prove. The Jewish capital has been expelled from this country, and in this country it is not allowed, as a coincidence, to another large Slovenian country to place its capital. Just to remind you briefly, Cardan belongs to five of Israel's largest and most powerful financial corporations, TBI, who had insurance here at the Danube, and who here had a licking company, and who wanted to start a bank here, was literally targeted. Who is the fascist and who is the anti-Semite, imagine well, Mr. Prime Minister, who are these people and what political group they belong to? Let's not go to any other trivial stuff. Elem, we have made it clear that the SRS MPs will not vote for Mrs Ivana Dulic to be elected vice-president of the Serbian government. We got an explanation, one thin explanation, which is, I'm not going to say it's embarrassing, but it's inappropriate. We heard oral reasoning, which came down to “the coalition agreement. ” We don't know what that means, so the argument can't satisfy at least me, and I don't trust the citizens of Serbia. The basic reason why we are contesting Mrs Ivana Markovic Dulic and this gentleman who is to succeed her is, firstly, what is leading and leading the country's agricultural policy against the EU's intensities, which we will prove very easily. Another reason is that a number of harmful measures, which are corrupting nature, have led Serbia's agriculture into an unenviable position. Let's get out of the EU, so we're clear. The EU's founding contract in Articles 32 and 38 brings the principles of common agricultural production and, under point (a) says: increasing productivity by using technical development, streamlining production, optimal use of product factors, labour; increasing farmers' standard of living, increasing employment. What it looks like is that profit from our farmers from 2000 to today can easily be seen from the statistics of the Bureau of Statistics of Serbia, I am not going to show it now, the members of the government need to know very well. As production looks, here's just one example. Here's this cattle fund, since 1997, these are the real results of government policy until 2000 and the government that continued: the decline in pig production, the decline in cattle production, these are the results. And what's said this year may be the first time we've imported grain because instead of 800, 700 thousand hectares, how normal it is for this country to plant, sow, of course (thank you, it's a real correction from the right place, and I thank you, it's given to the agricultural producer and it's well-intentioned, I hope), we'll be in a position to sow about 500 thousand, that maybe for the first time we're importing bread. My predecessor said -- not the Ministry said don't sow. It is said and we can quote to give you, and at which meetings it is spoken, that it is not economical to produce. And as it's done, there's no premium, it's the easiest way for you to express your attitude towards it. It is further said that the stabilisation of agricultural products markets, the guarantee of supply, the supply of consumers at reasonable prices, and that is where the original targets end. How is our market supplied? We suffer today because of the lack of seasonal vegetables and are dependent on the surrounding countries, Turkey, not to say others, Italy, Bulgaria, from where seasonal vegetables are imported. That goal has not been achieved. Consumers at reasonable prices; well, go to the market, fill the cigers, and you will see what reasonable prices are, when Serbian citizens have 20,000 average personal income. Of course, there are those who live and work much better. But if we follow what the EU has been doing since the beginning, we know what it is, it spent two-thirds of the budget on agricultural production. Now she's brought it down to half the budget. The high protection measures protected agricultural production, and that is true, and it must be done by any serious and responsible government that wants to be part of Europe. Furthermore, the Lisbon Convention has been clearly told that the village and the economy must be placed at the heart of the EU's attention and development, because 90% of the EU belongs to the rural part, and 50% of the population lives, as does 48% of the population. And we've come to finally these 2003 Pischler reforms that they said -- we're not going to pay any more than you give us the products to give you, we're not going to give you any more, we're not going to give you more land processed to pay you, we're paying for the farm and the farmers. It's the principle of modern Europe, and there's no sign of it. Your strategy is to determine the state and the set of good wishes. The strategy must have instruments to solve something. You always say, Serbian radicals only criticize and collapse on Masic and throw like hooligans from the bench to deconcentrate us. If you were a responsible team, you'd follow what the European Union's intensity is, you wouldn't have abolished the premiums and subsidies for everything you've abolished, given only for soy and oily tails, and that's why we know why, we're not going to talk about it now, and we're going to tell you what we have to say. You'd go to the regionalization of our production and encouragement. You know what, if you give us a Cave, on the Cave, you'll be raising the sheep's production and you've got a place to run. You know the Arab lands that cry, not to say what you did in the Marble, in the slaughterhouse, instead of helping produce and export, you did everything to prevent it. If you're responsible for the government, then your funds that you've directed to the name, not the cost of the project, would be invested in Machva, Srem, where the thermal waters are, to make plastics and produce what we import largely. What you do and what your results are, that's the statistics we have. That statistic says, you say -- it didn't work out before. In 2000. 39 million deficits, in 2003 250 million U.S. deficits, in agricultural exchange, are your results. What is the situation of the peasants, who are the incomes of the peasants, of the pair? Someone signed a 101 in today's list, so he says he's a paori hook, and then he's signed by a professor. Since when did the professors, Vlaovic, the paori, have any new alliances happened, have you interfered? (Mika Vlaovic, from the scene: Are you looking for an answer? No, I'm not. I'm just saying. It's an interesting thing, it's said as a great achievement - organic food production. Organic food production has been told you in this study, the Swiss have been doing the situation with us, they've taken the Albanians, the Bulgarians and us, this is a statement from this year, where it's said to exist only in hints. I'll tell you exactly and precisely, if you're interested, how many acres of land are handled by that. If you want to go to Europe, then you have to worry about food safety today, about the health security of that food. You've destroyed sanitary protection at the border, and we've spoken and we'll tell you a million examples of how you've violated all possible regulations and allowed imports of biologically incorrect plant products, semen for insemination from the Netherlands, and you know there were mad cows there. And this story that you've now come out and said that we deceive the public about the import of genetically modified food, I'm sorry, the federal government at the 59th session of the 4th of July 2002 makes a decision to, by the way, import genetically modified soybeans. The government has no right to do that. Miroljub Labus is blackmailing. Gentlemen, look here, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, the signator of imports of genetically modified soybeans, not only that, but look how much she gave in the import report of that soy. As dangerous as it is for the people, I will not speak. My friends still have to talk. Thank God, there goes this law on agricultural land and organic production, so we're all going to bring this out in principle. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, you have sinned hard on Serbian science and agro-agriculture. Twenty thousand engineers qualified, top experts among them are enough, you could have chosen your cabinet. How did you choose these people? Based on what you've given us, we're invisible, based on their results, we're convinced they're working against the interest of agriculture. We don't say it on purpose, most likely from ignorance. You who will vote for such unskilled men and these men who have brought this upon us, may it be your honor, and your country will not forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28072	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28073	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am very proud. I am proud for three reasons, I support and contribute to the work of the government, and therefore to Serbia, to continue reforms that lead to the state of normal and functional state, where all citizens will have security, where everyone will be able to demonstrate themselves according to their capabilities, where there will be trust in the institution and where we will all feel optimism. I am proud to be a member of the G17 Plus, a party that has given and will make a significant contribution to reforms and which unequivocally draws Serbia towards a better life of all citizens, which leads us to the EU, a party that has great people and gives the best, and certainly among the best are Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Mr Goran Zivkov. Thirdly, I am proud as a citizen of Subotica, because Ivana Dulic-Markovic is from Subotica, one of the most respected families, mother is two great children. Her family is proud of her and the results of her work, and she's proud of the whole of Subotica. As for the results of the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, we don't need to talk much, we need to ask farmers, farmers, we need to ask ordinary people, not politicians. It is necessary to ask the agricultural producers who answered the phone today of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, who support the agriculture ministers and the G17 Plus foreigners. You should also ask, as my friend from elementary school, who met me once on the street and asked me to thank the Minister of Agriculture for the help, which has contributed that his family has a way of funding his family. He lost his job, and thanks to registering his agricultural little land and getting a small short-term loan, he managed to start agricultural production. Such families have at least 53,000 that have allowed their families to continue their normal lives and such families will be more. As far as the government's work results are concerned, I'll only list a few. The surplus in Serbia's budget, for the first time in 65 years, in plus, debt write-offs, a two-year decrease in the foreign debt of $2.3 billion, the World Bank declared Serbia a world champion in speed of reform and an ambience for foreign investment. Greater foreign direct investment: $2.2 billion in two years. It is a smaller external trade deficit: it was reduced by 17% compared to 2004. Then, tax cuts. Most importantly, it is that the state repays 43.5 billion dinar debt to pensioners, which was created in the 1990s and early 2000s. We've got an efficient and thrifty state, we're implementing an effective tax system reform, cheap housing loans, self-employment loans, a fund to support young talent, etc. Part of the government and its significant contribution were made by Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Mr Goran Zivkov. That is why I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this proposal, because with these changes in government, the results of the government will be even better. Against Ivana Dulic-Markovic are radicals. Why? Because Ivana is taking Serbia to Europe, and radicals will not go to Europe, because there are order, work and discipline, and that does not fit the radicals. The results of the SRS work we had the opportunity to see, and I hope we don't get a chance to watch it again. You have declared here that you are against Ivana Dulic-Markovic, and the G17 plus is against the policy of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28074	The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28075	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the SRS wants to join the EU, because the EU obviously wants Serbia in the EU. However, not as it is now, but a Serbia that would be economically far stronger, more stable, no affairs, no corruption, no crime, and such a Serbia can only arrange SRS when it is able to accept executive authorities. But not unconditionally and the EU knows it, under one of our very important conditions now, which is that it guarantees us sovereignty and territorial integrity throughout our territory, it is, of course, Kosovo and Metohija. Her hand's been given, and it's up to them to decide whether they're going to be partners or if they're still just going to be conditional. In the exposé we heard from the Prime Minister very little he told us what Mrs Dulic-Markovic and Mr Zivkova recommended for such high state functions. Their résumés are so lame, that there's a contest in any daily list, for any job, I think it would be more written and comprehensive. And if Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic was a woman who was involved in science, she should at least write to us what papers she was publishing, where she was, and if she did, and if the incorrect data here, as my colleague Masic noticed, that she was a scientific associate at a time when she couldn't have that scientific calling, then it's just something that the Prime Minister should imagine whether anyone who was willing to falsify his personal data could be vice president of the government. As for Mr. Zivkov, it is obvious that this is the man who has always worked in federal bodies as some father, with very low qualifications for the Minister of Agriculture, but we are used to the fact that agriculture is somehow, as they say in our country, the last hole in the play when it comes to economy and we do not realize that this is one of the most important, if not the most important economic branch, which we should be concerned about and how we should be helped, so that the state comes out of the economic crisis. I don't want to talk about what Mrs. Dulic-Markovic's personality is like, I guess the Prime Minister knows that better than I do, although she often said in public that she is not a politician, that she is an expert. I don't know where the interest in being Deputy Prime Minister is from, when it's a political function above all. It should obviously be some new Ceda Jovanovic, although it is said here that she was a key man on the Labus team on negotiations with the EU on European integration. I believe that it is wrong for those who think it is good for Mrs Dulic to be removed from the post of Minister of Agriculture and to be honored to be Deputy Prime Minister, because it is much less harmful than to remain in this post, because from this more function it can affect not only the Ministry of Agriculture but also all other ministries. Here you could hear, and I'll only bring out a few segments in which it has done damage to our country so far, working on the import of genetically modified soybeans and soybean grains. I suppose you know that. I understand that you are in a difficult position, at all costs you would like to save the government, you are conditioned by the personal solutions of a political party that is your coalition partner, but I fear that one day you will truly repent, when you sum up your results, as I strongly recommend that you be a little more careful when it comes to co-operation and co-habitation with the DS, because I am convinced that this knife in your back, in terms of negotiations with Europe around Kosovo and Metohija, it is just Boris Tadic who puts it both mentally and physically. These are warnings, and it is up to you to bear the responsibility of your actions. One moment you'll have to say, I suppose, that's enough blackmail, it's time for us to disband parliament, resign, go to the elections, and be at war with those who don't really deserve it anymore, or have the support of the electoral body to manage such important resources as, say, the Ministry of Agriculture, and in particular to be the vice president of the government that you're president of. Everyone's trying to bring together the best around them, and somehow you've been gathering the worst. To remind only the citizens of Serbia, as well as you here in parliament, what Mrs. Dulic did in 2003 about soy buckshot, approving imports, as the director of the Federal Institute for Plant and Animal Genetic Resources, when she gave an opinion on the import of soybeans, but in part and seed soybeans, in the second-degree procedure, because border phytosanitary inspectors in the first degree banned its imports, respecting existing regulations. With opposition to such imports, as well as opposition to acceptance of the US government's soy juice donation, the modified soybean grain was asked in September 2002 for the shift of Miroslav Malesevic, the aide to the federal minister of business and internal trade. There are clear indications, and it is up to you to investigate on the competent authorities, that one part of the money from the sale of that soy shotgun from the donations, as well as all donations at that time, is directed to the financing of the then G17 Plus Institute, and later to the political parties. Why is this important? It is important because in most EU countries there is a ban on the use of meat produced from cattle fed by genetically modified soy juice. This clearly limits the market for our meat producers and the perspective of their exports to EU countries. It is characteristic that the largest importers of genetically modified soybeans are also the largest livestock producers. All I'm going to say is "Break product," and you know probably who the others were. On the other hand, it kept explaining that consent was given only for imports of genetically modified soybeans used as a product in animal nutrition and that no imports were made for genetically modified soybeans in grain. In 2005, however, a mass phenomenon of genetically modified soybeans was discovered in the fields of the Sabac municipality's farmers. In total, about 9,000 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans in grain were imported. What consequences this will have on the health of the population, we'll see. With the aim of subsidising for a number of agricultural cultures, say wheat, corn, sugar beet and others, the state is overpouring budget funds to domestic "capitalists", as it says, which privatising the processing industry, Minister Dulic has abolished subsidies for these products, thus reducing the interest in these cultures, as a consequence of following even their imports, and, at the same time, it is unlikely that a subsidy for soy, and this year, for the oil tail, has been introduced. What is the role of Mrs Dulic-Marković in favour of the vaccine against the classical plague of Croatian pig producer Pliva from Zagreb, I will explain it a little more, because it is doubtless that her school, friendly and family ties have also contributed to many things and foreign interests. This has already happened in some cases in contact with the EU and other international institutions, when deliberately missed deadlines for the provision of information and implementation of certain procedures, which conditioned better passage of agricultural products to countries in the environment, and made it difficult or prevented the placement of our production. The latest case of a vaccine against classical swine fever is therefore nothing new, nor is it strange. At the end of her term, she decided to impose a million-dollar job on Croatia's Pliva from Zagreb, and how I will explain it now. A guide on how to carry out the marking of pigs and vaccination against classical swine fever until the final division of the terrain to veterinary cells in 2006, from 9 May 2006, extended, alongside domestic producers of the Veterinary Institute of Subotic and Veterinary Institute Zemun, and Croatia's Pliva, through Beoveterina from Belgrade as a representative. Although these two of our mentioned institutions have produced sufficient amounts of vaccines, the veterinary cells have been ordered to buy a vaccine and pre-scheduled tender for five million doses of this vaccine, 100,000 doses and that "Plives" has already been bought, at the price of 110 dinars, and is in circulation, and our vaccine costs 15 dinars. It is interesting that Plivina is not used in Croatia because so-called radicalisation, i.e. pigs are not vaccinated, but in case of occurrence, killing them, with the remuneration of market values to the owners. This is done for one simple reason, which is mainly not received in the European Union by pig meat and products thereof if they have been vaccinated for the life of pigs by this vaccine. It may seem insignificant to you, but it causes great damage to our agriculture and our livestock production, and if someone who thinks this way and prevents the export of our products to European Union countries to be someone who will be the key man for negotiations with the European Union on European integration, then you, Mr. President, are really in a big problem. I have much more to say about what it is that we would put Mrs. Dulic-Markovic on the soul as a minister of agriculture and as someone who, working in these institutes and institutions, before she became a minister, questioning her good intentions, not only for our agriculture but also for our country, but for those who support her choice today, is that you are responsible for the future state of our agriculture and our very high external trade deficit anyway. And it is known that food is something that we could count on to be the largest export product and according to some of the data that I have, which seems to be hiding a little bit, 27 billion is already difficult for our external trade deficit, along with that 17 billion debt. We really don't have a good record, and that's why every responsible and smart man would try to gather around him people who can help him get the country out of the crisis, to keep at least part of his promises, not to submit to various pressures, just because of the government's naked keeping. It's no big deal and it doesn't hurt to go to the election again. Maybe in some new section of cards you'll be in the government again, and we're not in the government, we're not in the government, we're not in the government, we're not in the government, we're not in any other person's business, we're in the hands of the people, we're in the hands of the people, we're in charge of each of the next election. I really invite you to say no to all blackmails once, and to this internal coalition, and also to those outsiders, who can cost this country a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28076	The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was indeed an interesting explanation that Mr. Kostunica gave to the National Assembly and MPs to elect Ivana Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister, but it is very interesting that the prime minister in that explanation was involved in everything and everything, and at least, it is free to say, what should have been the subject, i.e. by persuading the MPs to vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic. I followed very closely and kept a precise record, of 11 minutes and 41 seconds, as our prime minister spoke, for two minutes and seven seconds, dedicated to explaining the quality and all of what these two recommend, as we are told here, of experts in the functions that should be performed. That's when you share time about 63.5 seconds per expert and it would be much more interesting if we had heard in those seconds the real reason why you would vote for these people, but instead we got an explanation from the prime minister that it's because the team shouldn't change. I would remind myself that it's usually said that the winning team should not change, and this team is definitely not the winning team. The second reason was that it was necessary because it is so under the coalition agreement, so the post of Deputy Prime Minister belongs to G17 Plus. I would remind the prime minister that it is not exactly true that this team is not changing, because this government reconstruction is not the first, we had a reconstruction a few days ago, so in a voluntary way in the ministerial chair, Vuk Draskovic sat down, and right next to him and Zoran Stankovic. The prime minister also told us about the state's legal arrangements, about the adoption of a new constitution, but it's amazing why today, when it's not the subject of this session today, and whether it's finally the conscience of the prime minister that's started to work, and he remembered that he ran over the Constitution of the SRJ, which he swore allegiance to, and then ran over the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, but doesn't lie down who gets used to the constitution in violation of it, of course, must continue to do so, so Vojislav Kostunica took a coup, ran over the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and named certain people as ministers by regulations. Furthermore, Serbia's prime minister said something that we haven't heard before, and it's a very dangerous thing. He said that in the coming period it is necessary to define the boundaries. I don't really know with what internationally recognised country in the environment today, Serbia has undefined borders. As far as we know, the boundaries are defined and well-defined. So, is this how the Prime Minister announces something that might happen in the future I really don't know? It is then said that for Serbia to enter Europe it is necessary to establish partnership relations, so that the conditionality policy, which is, according to the prime minister, a euphemism for blackmail, cannot bring us into Europe. The question is justifiably why Mr. Kostunica tells us and why he did not tell his partners who brought him to power, because in 2000 and 2003, and even now, they were praising fantastic relations with abroad and with the international community. But already in the next sentence, the prime minister said that we must meet the conditions that the conditioning policy would not continue further. So is it possible that we have to meet all the conditions and have ever set any conditions? Why is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija related to co-operation with The Hague, if no one from the international community does so, why do these voices start from the government of the Republic of Serbia and from those you have declared ministers by regulations. Is it possible that we cannot set a condition, so to say that Serbia is seeking, therefore, the respect of the UN Charter, to seek respect for all internationally recognised norms and conventions, so to say, if we as the only people and states in the world whose rights and guarantees are not recognised, in which case we do not want to go to Europe. Because if it is a condition for us to enter Europe to give up Kosovo and Metohija previously, then we really don't see any reason for us to enter that Europe. We listened practically about everything, about why some don't want Vuk Draskovic, why some don't want Zoran Stankovic, the only thing we haven't heard about, we haven't heard about why we should choose Ivana Dulic-Markovic, not to talk about Mr Zivkov at all, because he almost didn't even mention him. So, on their qualifications, on their work and on what is expected of them, there was no word. You have not explained why it is necessary for Ivana Dulic-Markovic to be Deputy Prime Minister, whether she is the best of the ministers who have been in the government of Vojislav Kostunica so she deserves more steps by working and pawning. I don't think so. She admitted it herself, a few days ago and here for this pay phone, she said she didn't know about farming much, but she's lucky, so she has great associates who know everything, so here she is, she's got a good team around her. Finally, it can be said freely that if someone who did not understand himself in agriculture and was educated on the one hand, and on the other hand he was a three-year minister of agriculture and did nothing, then what can we expect from that person at the post of vice-president of the Republic Government, and there are much greater obligations and much greater responsibilities. Another question arises -- why did you convince us in previous years that Miroljub Labus is everything and everything in the negotiations with the EU, that he is there alpha and omega, that there would be nothing without him, there would be no cutting cake or opening champagne, and now you're saying that the key man in those negotiations was Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Do we need to hear in two or three months or five months that in fact it wasn't Ivana Dulic-Markovic, but it was someone third. I truly believe that there has never been an easier choice before the MPs and that a lot of the MPs sitting in these benches also share this opinion. And as for the SRS and our parliamentary groups, we repeat once again that we will not vote for Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28078	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28079	Ladies and gentlemen, if it were indeed the first priority, as Mr. Kostunica said, of this government, the legal arrangement of the state, then we would be here a few more days ago discussing the draft law on amendments, or additions to the Ministry Act, so today, in addition to this reconstruction, we would have had that other, perhaps essential reconstruction, and we would not have a problem sitting in the Serbian Government today some two people who no one chose to be in the Serbian government, which is Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Stankovic. Mr. Kostunica tried to build a state by regulation, and if this is a legal process of the state, then we really need to ask ourselves what it would look like to take care of the state wrongly. The government's team does not change, said Mr. Kostunica, but by now it has been mentioned here after this speaker and it has been said about the government of Kostunica-Labus, from now on the government of Kostunica-Dulic will speak, and then it certainly is a new team. Why Ivana Dulic-Markovic for Deputy Prime Minister and why Goran Zivkov told the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Kostunica clearly said here. He says the proposal is the result of a coalition agreement. Of course, we have nothing against your coalition agreements, you chose coalition partners yourself, and now you have to suffer their various blackmails and you have to allow these reconstructions. That's your problem, and that's what the best assessment and the right word will tell you citizens already after the next election, but what you need to do as prime minister when it comes to such proposals, then we really think it would be good if, once you've reconstructed the government, that you've removed one of the greatest pests, in the otherwise harmful government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic from the government. She and her party will be removed from the political scene very soon anyway. But before that, it's really surprising, because you're almost three years in action, or your government, Mr. Kostunica, and we've never discussed in this House what you as a government have done significantly for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. We were actually expecting, when these combinations appeared that Ivana Dulic-Markovic of the place of Minister of Agriculture was an adventure for the Vice-President of the Government of Serbia, that at least the team would discuss here and hear what the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry did during the term of office of Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Had we happened to have such a report, and we didn't, then the MPs and the public of Serbia would have found out where the money was being given to Serbian citizens, because all of you in the Serbian government are boasting, and you said today, Mr Kostunica, that the agricultural budget has been increased three times since this government was in power in Serbia. We know that, but we don't know where those three times the budget for agriculture goes. Also, if we had a report, which was logical and necessary, on the work of Ivana Dulic-Markovic, then we would certainly know why the raspberries are destroying their crops this year, why they are already 100 hectares lower the surface of the raspberries so far, we would know, you would probably tell us, and how it happened to cost the wheat in 2005 to be 2,50 dinars cheaper than it was in 2004. We know, of course, that it's all the work of Ivana Dulic-Markovic, your minister, and the producers of the raspberries, and the plums, and the cherry, and the wheat, all those who protested on a daily basis, will probably these, too, just don't know who's going to cry in front of them right now, I don't know if this Mr. Zivkov, as it is already called, is as crying as she is, because every time he had to face a group of agricultural producers, she was only able to cry. Of course, here it was important about the company "Monsanto", about the modified soy and other modified organisms, which Ivana Dulic-Markovic, together with her friend Aleksandr Makaj from Zagreb, imported in large quantities to Serbia and thus significantly threatened the health of all Serbian citizens. Then it is important here for some MPs whether the name of the company which is the importer of modified soybeans and other modified, i.e. exporters, and Ivana Dulic is with her team of importers, and it has also been disputed here whether Ivana Dulic was a student of the scholarship of the company "Monsato". Let's just say that this is not the problem today, since Ivana Dulic, as she is in her biography, studied in Zagreb, and that Aleksandra Makaj, her colleague from Zagreb, who is also in connection with the company "Monsanto", might not be so interesting, but it is an interesting fact that Ivana Dulic is still on the payroll today. That is the real question, my dear colleagues, and the answer is in Vojislav Kostunica's proposal to elect Ivana Dulic as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, and that the minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry, you will likely vote on it, as Goran Zivkov. And you see the special characteristics of this gentleman. He worked at the federal ministry, so says - the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Plant and Animal Genetic Resources Sector, the head of the Department of Genetic Resources and genetically modified organisms, the regional office for Europe, the consultant of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry, the Department of Analyticals, agrarian politics, the assistant minister. So, this gentleman is and we know this one from the team, one today is a national MP, a former minister, one who is the future minister, a lady who is the future vice president of the government, a team that, in the worst possible way, through genetically modified products, destroys this nation, destroys all citizens of Serbia. And it's really amazing that you, Mr. Kostunica, don't know it, and since you found out today, it would be humane at least to withdraw this proposal and to deal with the serious reconstruction of the government here, to get out of the government of some two citizens that no one has chosen as ministers. If you're really a legalist, and you're saying that, then it's the least you have to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28080	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28081	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, various people and representatives of this wider public, as some try to call themselves analysts, some journalists, those who are sold in Grmeč and other Belgrade restaurants for lunch and others, were inclined to write, to praise the government, individuals, these yellow thieves from the DS. But I guess it's a long and political experience, perhaps intuition, or what most of it has taught me since the beginning of the multi-party activity in Serbia and the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. I was not inclined to underestimate, after the conclusion of such a government and a convincing victory of the SRS, and before taking power from Mr Kostunica and these coalition partners, what he is going to do, how he's going to go on the variant to the end, as I would say in Shumadi, the prime minister's term and all of you along with him. Because it's a man of skilled political manipulation and you've seen what Kostunica says today. G17, Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Goran Zivkov are from the G17 plus quota and there is the point. Not exactly, because the vice-presidential post, Mr. Kostunica, is one political function and time does not allow me, because at the end of the day I want this time left for the SRS to share with one of the biggest experts among us, colleague Zoran Krasic, who will give my and your satisfaction the final word on this subject. I want to tell you that it is a big problem, because you are now a lady, who has been a very bad agriculture minister and as such reversed everything that farmers in Serbia today, agricultural producers and the professional public have as an objection. Now she will have a political function that is next to you as prime minister. I have to tell you that this is already a problem for you, and the question is how do you think in the last few months of your government's last nexus, which has no legitimacy in the people, you survive with such a vice president, and with this which is collateral damage, someone, in the role of the ministry of former agriculture, this Zivkov, but he is not, he is a high-level associate of Ivana Dulic and also with a quota of this political organisation that I will not give to during this discussion, nor in the future, because they will soon be a political past. Now you're coming to Kragujevac the day after tomorrow as prime minister for the Republican government's working session with the new apparently vice president of the government. The question is, what are you going to do, because with such an explanation that is absolutely unacceptable, with all these objections to the work of her as Minister of Agriculture and this associate of hers, who is the pretender of the Minister of Agriculture, to come before poor Kragujevčana? In front of workers and farmers and 40,000 unemployed people? Is it clear to you that the ministers of your coalition, Minister Dinkic, and that will now work and Dulic, she left Kragujevcana with no 154 million who were obliged to compensate for the damage caused by last year's storm and direct damage to the agricultural crops, deafened to our request, Professor Masic forwarded it. Even Mayor Veroljub Stevanović himself gave me as an MP and a lady in charge of the agrarian, and the chief expert in Kragujevac passed a detailed report, one single dinar she did not give, and consciously goes even to one of the oldest institutes, and here we return to the question of the intelligence of this ministry and science in our country, the Institute of Foreign Cereals, which has existed since 1898 in Kragujevac, destroys. People are left with nothing, and then we go back to those references and how you got into that situation. You say maybe it's easy for you, it's uncomfortable, I don't care, you do it directly, you don't have a problem here Ivana Dulic-Markovic, or Goran Zivkov, you're a problem, because you're a direct damage to such a way of ruling, just to make it good for you and your coalition, to stretch out until December 2007, but you won't be able, because the elections will have to be sooner to do so to all Serbian citizens. It just serves me as a clagworth, this shura biography here and this doctoral dissertation, diagnostics, virus identification in strawberry. The whole Serbian economy is infected and that some representatives from its political party have tried to say it is a team of experts, that it is people who know where Serbian agriculture should go, it is nothing new. As early as 1999, during the aggression against our country and our people, a team of experts from the Faculty of Economics from Kragujevac did one study that is only applicable, of course with the completion, with ministers who love their country and who want good for their people, how to implement the necessary restructuring of the Serbian economy. There's no lobby around here. It knows exactly what part of Serbia needs to produce, to whom to give subsidies, how to do it, and not to go beyond what is called this Sladjevic, and apparently a man, with the help of Dulicka, shared credits with his hand and hat. Ten percent of the commissions, you ask someone, there's your Raca MP, Mr. Zdravkovic, one single loan is not for agriculture divided into the municipality, I know it's reliable, because the most performances from farmers came from that area. In Kragujevac only where the political organisation has membership, and the censors could not move to the elections, have 1.8% of the vote. You will now be the Deputy Prime Minister of such a party, which in that city could not even censure and has no credibility in the people, to bring to Kragujevac the day after tomorrow and tell the workers how they will receive subsidies, how they will start production, agriculture. It is simply impossible, because in the style of Josip Broz Mladjan Dinkic, seven days ago, he was in Kragujevac, in a poorly-cuted performance, three local television shows in direct transmission. They talked about it, or he promised the workers, and he promised the unemployed. They're waiting for people and nothing. Now, you know what makes me happy now, Mr. Kostunica, is that you will come to Kragujevac and it will be an outgoing performance, because that's what the predecessors before you did. When they came to Kragujevac, ministers from the previous DOS government, whose continuity in the way of governance, thinking, destroying the economy, producing crime and corruption, a few months later went into oblivion. It simply ended in the elections that year, because what's funny to the individuals here sitting in a parliamentary bench, who are comfortable in their functions, on boards and everywhere, is not funny to those very hungry people in the city, where you gentlemen couldn't cross the electoral censorship. Because these people didn't have to buy bread today, because they harass the worst possible diseases, because crime and corruption are what in your ranks Vojislav Kostunica, in the manner Ivana Dulic-Markovic, failed to identify and diagnose. If you had faced it at the beginning with a thieving, mob organization and identified them, diagnosed them, you wouldn't have had a situation like this in Serbia today if people were hungry, people didn't trust you, you didn't have any credibility, and then it's on your soul and of course on your responsibility. Because the post of Deputy Prime Minister, such a government and such a former minister, and as of today probably Deputy Prime Minister, for Serbian citizens only means one thing - that you do not want to think in a good and positive direction and that the end is near to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28082	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic, the word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic. Excuse me, excuse me, replica, excuse me, Mr. Krasic. Here you are, Mr. Davidovic, personally mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28083	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly obliged to speak for this speaker the way it is and what is true. I am pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia has something to brag about and it will certainly be a pleasure for the people of Kragujevac to have the government held in Kragujevac on Thursday. I'll remind you of what was done in the town of Kragujevac in two and a half years. I don't think that's ever been done before. As for investments, nine billion dinars have been invested in the town of Kragujevac in different ways so far, which is really not a small sum. What is essential is that the town of Kragujevac was previously called a city, but the essential centers were dislocated from the town of Kragujevac. The Centre for Electricity was returned to the town of Kragujevac, the centre of Telecom, the centre of PTT, the Clinical Hospital Centre has grown to the Clinical Centre in the town of Kragujevac, debts of 450 million, which "Stava" had been returned and the privatisation process, which we were obliged to bring in by the end of 2006, is also near the end. What is agreed and what will certainly be related to the strategic development of the automotive industry will also be heard at this session of the government held in the town of Kragujevac. So the mere fact that the situation speaks quite the opposite of what we've heard here, and the citizens of Kragujevac will certainly have an understanding of everything that has been done for them so far, so I'm sure it will be a pleasure to all of our citizens that the government has been able to show in this way and prove that the Kragujevac has essentially returned those attributes that belong to him, which, unfortunately, to this government, has not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28084	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28085	I would draw attention to socio-political workers to journalists and those who have problems with the stenogram to pay attention. I'm going to talk today about the Prime Minister's proposal. I'll try not to use any name, no last name, and point out what a lack and a bad proposal is to elect a vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28086	If you agree, so as to be better accompanied by MPs, please address person A and person B, so it will be easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28087	Mr. Chairman, I know your problem, citizen Markovic's case, but the fact that it's a citizen, Markovic, you shouldn't manifest such abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the rights of a man sitting behind that microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28088	Mr. Krasic, I want to help the MPs, including Mr. Markovic, who sits in the parliamentary benches. There is no case, but since you said you wouldn't speak names, to make it easier for MPs to follow you, I suggested one practical way, because it's my job to take care of the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28089	Mr. Markovic, don't worry, I'll get it before you do. I'm well-known for what I'm saying, but big problems have to understand you when you're a captain, a sailor, when you're in some different functions, when you justify yourself why you won't be 15 minutes in this building. Everyone understands me very well, but I just don't get it from those who want to hear what they think out of my mouth. So we're talking about a proposal from the Prime Minister to elect a Deputy Prime Minister and a Minister of Agriculture. And, as we've heard, it's the continuity of a government team. Unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to hear more than two sentences about candidates, but we have been constantly honored in the opening statement that this proposal is the result of a compromise and an obviously marred coalition capacity of this government. That the capacity has been violated, and I warn the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is dangerous for the state when the government is formed on the basis of coalition capacity, on the basis of cohabitation and on the basis of something that is obviously part of the government's political interest. But what was 90% exposure is priority policy. Believe me, citizens, we are not in February or March 2004 but in June 2006. Priorities are the same: legal arrangement of the state; reach agreement for the Constitution; elections immediately. And let's remember, the continuity is the breaking up of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and by the way, the breaking up of the state community, and you probably have a hunch that we both have a break-up in action and Serbia. If it's a legal process of state, I don't know what kind of correlation to this proposal from a candidate like this or these candidates. It is said European integration, so one ran away with his head regardless of European integration allegedly, but essentially because of his leg problems, with Ericson, with sugar, with banks, with the National Savings and with all other phenomena treated in public as affairs. It's the coalition capacity of this government to produce affairs. It says that the EU has expanded since 2004, Europe as you said, Europe has been the same for millenniums in its borders, partnership with Europe, and then it comes to us here, Ollie Rehn, and it says, either it's gonna be Ollie Rehn or it's gonna be Ollie's breaking up. Pressure conditioning and blackmail policy, so what's the partnership? Kosovo and Metohija, Republika Srpska, what does this have to do with the proposed candidates. The investment programme, as we had the opportunity to hear, all the investment programmes in the agriculture sector had a goal to disappear. So that I don't repeat something my predecessors have said, by some logic of the matter when this coalition capacity is forced, then in the state structures, the distribution of the place is done according to the appropriate strength within the parties that make up a government. By the logic of the matter, the vice president of this government, if it belongs to one of these parties, should be the man who runs that party. We get the impression that the finance minister is on a much lower scale, but basically that's not the problem. We've had that phenomenon before. Formal-legal Natasa Micic cheered and dressed according to functions, but we know that Ceda Jovanovic was behind it. Here it agrees with one of those types of settlements to preserve the coalition capacity and what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, this is not a proposal from the government or the Prime Minister or the parties that make up this government, this is a proposal that came from abroad. Just to remind you, there was a man in this building in 2003 who falsely represented himself as a minister. They called him Goran Pitic. He only took an oath three months later. Let me just remind those who were earlier here, who were also laughing, surprised by the appearance, don't look forward to it, you're in a worse situation. Answer the question - what is in the section - state function, and to sign down the sign of Vuk Draskovic. Is that the case of citizen Draskovic, Stankovic, is that some kind of legality? It's a struggle for constitutionality and legality. You can hardly say that such a thing exists. So, for the sake of coalition capacity, for one act, because these parties that make up so-called. The democratic bloc, read -- the block for Serbia's breaking up, is nothing but dolls with ropes, and they move someone far away, someone who cares about ending it just like that, to close the issue of responsibility for all the evils that were made in the crackdown of the SFRY, the bombing of Serbia, etc. Judging by this coalition capacity, you'll probably somehow provide these necessary dozens of votes, to iron out another ten days for the high degree of unity achieved on the democratic bloc, but you're deeply aware that this leads to the sun. Just to remind you, you choose candidates who are famous for criticising the Prime Minister for at least a year and a half, who were willing to blow into balloons, to rejoice when Serbia broke up, who were ready to go out with everyone, even those who got hooked on easy drugs, to criticise the government they were sitting in. These are your coalition capacities. Since 5 October 2000, you have had all the coalition capacity and ability to break up the Republic of Serbia. You can jump, you can object, you can challenge, you can form another topic through your media, you can focus public attention elsewhere, but you can be sure of what I said is true: because of cohabitation, because of cohabitation, because of condescending, we have a situation that citizens are increasingly dissatisfied every day, they don't see this new system of values, the issue of the Constitution, the issue of choice, they see as a simple farce with which the people are confused, in order to achieve as much political stability as possible, to end a dirty business in favour of those who have proven enemies of this people. Of course, we won't support this proposal, we won't even be in the O.R. when you're in a position to vote for it. But keep an eye on it, some settlements have been made before, and 50-60 years ago, even with some other last names. You know, during one period there was a well-known government of Kostunica - Labus, now Kostunica with another name and last name, but make sure that after such coalition governments, with such strong coalition capacities, we do not pass as the government of Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-06-20-0.u28090	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the Prime Minister want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. According to Article 192, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule June 20th, 2006, today as a day for voting on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government. We will approach the vote in five minutes, at 16.05 p.m., for all MPs who will participate in the vote to come in. Thank you. [[After break – 16,20.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, before the start of the vote, let's determine if we have a voting quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, using the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall and we have a voting quorum. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF GOVERNMENT MEETING Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the Prime Minister's proposal for the election of members of the Government, before I move to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 192, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure shall decide on a proposal to elect members of the Government in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government vote publicly - using an electronic voting system. If there are no other proposals, I would like to put the motion to vote on the election of government members publicly - using an electronic voting system. For 129, two of the 131 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal to elect members of the government - using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to make a public vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government - using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 192(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision on the election of members of the Government, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I put to the vote the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government as a whole. For 126, against three, they didn't vote two out of 131 MPs. Since 126 MPs voted for the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Prime Minister's proposal in general, and has chosen as new members of the government: Dr Ivan Dulic-Markovic as Deputy Prime Minister, and Goran Zivkova as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Let me congratulate on your and my behalf the elected members of the government on the election. I ask the elected members of the government to enter the O.R. first. Please take a seat next to the Prime Minister. I ask the elected members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 16. Government law, approaches to swearing. Please stand up. You repeat after me: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law, and to perform the duties of a member of the Government in a safe, responsible and committed manner." I ask the elected members of the government to sign and give the text of the oath. Congratulations to once more elected members of the government. [[Applause]] I thank the Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, and the ministers present. I thank all of you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. This concludes the debate and the selection of the 20th agenda. Tomorrow at 10.00 hours we continue the session by searching the details of the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Thank you all for your responsibility.
