ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 118 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the conditions to begin work. No one reported a leave. At the same time, we would like to inform you that I received the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Miroljub Labus on 3 May. On the basis of the Government Act, Article 23 of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Assembly shall, after its resignation, take this into account, and on the basis of Rule 207(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The assembly finds that it ended the term of office of Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus. I also thank you on your behalf for everything Mr. Labus has done together with the Government, the Assembly and other executive parts of the government for Serbia's EU accession. According to Article 85(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session on Monday for the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposals for acts from the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. Since we started working day, there are no, yet, conditions for us to be able to access the minutes from previous sessions and vote on the agenda. I therefore ask the Legislative Committee to meet, in a small room, immediately to make adequate decisions. I know there's gonna be a lot of work, which is why we're continuing the session at 11.30 p.m. [[After break – 12.00.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the fourth session of the regular session. Since we've reached the points we have to say by voting, please first determine if we have a voting quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there are 127 MPs present and that we can move on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with the minutes of the Second and Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Since more than 126 MPs attend today's session, on the basis of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17 April 2006. For 128, of the 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 17 April 2006. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 17, 18, 19 and 20 April 2006. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, held on 17, 18, 19 and 20 April 2006. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure, on a proposal to merge the debate and on a proposal to change the order of the agenda. The government proposed that the draft law on the market of securities and other financial instruments, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 April 2006, should be put on the agenda of the 7th proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote one out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the termination of the law establishing a "Brothership" news publishing institution, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2006, should be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. The government is withdrawing an emergency procedure. I thank Mr Stojkovic. So, by confirming the Prime Minister present, this emergency procedure has been withdrawn, so we are not pleading for an emergency procedure. The law stays in the process. The government proposed putting the draft law on return (restitution) to churches and religious communities, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 April 2006, on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, they did not vote four out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, Proposal for a Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Prosecutors and Prosecutors and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Law of Law on the Law of Law of Conduct of the Courts (points 1, 3 and 4 of the Proposed Order); Proposal for a Law on the Arguing of Investment Funds, Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Taking of Action Companies and the Proposal of the Law on Accounting and Audit (paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on Pris of the Law on Pristrateance, Proposal of the Society of the A. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 119, against one, it did not vote 8 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, based on Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed a change in the order of the agenda, so that item 2 of the proposed agenda - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, becomes a point of the 1st agenda, and point 1 of the proposed agenda – the proposal for a criminal procedure becomes a point of the 2nd agenda. Does MP Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 124, they did not vote four out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, to merge the debate and to change the order of agenda items, on the basis of Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 128, of the 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously established the agenda of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a National Strategy for Justice Reform, submitted by the Government (number 7-843/06 of 14 April 2006), 2. Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government (number 713-842/06 of 14 April 2006), 3. Proposal for a Law on the Training of Judges, Public Prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors, submitted by the Government (number 011-501/06 of 6 March 2006), 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was submitted by the Government (Number 7-533/06 of 10 March 2006), 5. Proposal for a law on arbitration, submitted by the Government (number 7-2461/05 of 21 October 2005), 6. Proposal for a law on special powers for effective protection of intellectual property rights, submitted by the Government (number 011-3100/05 of 30 December 2005), 7. A proposal for a law on securities market of value and other financial instruments submitted by the Government (number 400-923/06 of 29 April 2006), 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Investment Funds, submitted by the Government (number 400-2064/05 of 8 September 2005), 9. Proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies, which was submitted by the Government (number 4-2950/05 of 14 December 2005, 10. Proposal for a law on accounting and audit, submitted by the Government (number 400-84/06 of 18 January 2006), 11. Proposal for a Law on Public Skiing, submitted by the Government (number 66-31/05 of 11 January 2005, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which was submitted by the 545,208 voters (number 02-2101/05 of 4 October 2005, 13. Proposal for a law establishing the NIS-Capital Stock Company, which was submitted by Group of 545,564 voters (number 02-2102/05 of 4 October 2005), 14. Proposal for a law establishing the EPS-CAPITAL Joint Undertaking, which was submitted by the Group of 542,592 voters (number 02-2103/05 of 4 October 2005), 15. Proposal for a law establishing the PTT-Capital Stock Company, which was submitted by Group of 546,921 voters (number 02-2104/05 of 4 October 2005). 16. Proposal for a law on the return (restitution) of property to churches and religious communities, which was submitted by the Government (number 465-924/06 of 29 April 2006), 17. The selection of members of the Programme Committee of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute, on a proposal from the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (number 02-983/06 of 8 May 2006) and on a proposal from the Republic Broadcasting Agency (number 02-964/06 of 5 May 2006), 18. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic, chairman of the G17 Plus parliamentary group (placed on 24 May 2006), 19. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group (based on 24 May 2006). Before we move on to the agenda on the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have received a proposal to put on the agenda the urgent procedure during the session, pursuant to Article 162(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the Committee on Culture and Information, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that, be kind enough to sit down and concentrate, therefore, on the agenda of this session – the selection of members of the programme board of the Serbian Broadcasting Institute. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Three out of 127 MPs voted for 124. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since the Assembly has also accepted this proposal, we are moving to work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CONTAINED NATIONAL STRATEGY OF THE REFORM OF THE JUSTICE You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Government. You have received amendments submitted jointly by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic to the proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 36 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9 plus 9 – 20 minutes, 24 seconds; five MPs' for European Serbia – six minutes, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SPP MPs and three independent MPs – five minutes under Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives for this agenda point are in front of DSS Jovan Palalic, and in front of G17 plus Marko Krstin. Is there no chance that there is some problem with the fact that we voted for a change of order, all prepared for participation anyway? They did, didn't they? Thank you. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, Zoran Stojkovic, want the justice minister? Yeah. ) Just a moment, due to one announcement, because of the way all MPs work, I would like to inform you that, according to Article 85(4), we will, Rules of Procedure, today to discuss that item on the agenda, until the end of that item that is on the agenda or a single search or a joint search which takes place on the agenda at 1800 hours. In contrast, it is necessary to prepare your participation in the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister. The word has the Minister of Justice Zoran Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, there is one, perhaps, of the most important documents that this assembly needs to discuss and adopt, and for that I will plead. For sixty years, we've been discussing courts, pointing to a series of problems that exist, but not once before, a concise programme has been put in place to do what needs to be done, give answers to these problems and how to solve them. The judiciary is the third branch of an independent government. Without a valid judiciary, I don't think we have to at least argue here, hardly have a valid state. The importance of this document is therefore exceptional. The same document taxively lists all the problems that exist for the judiciary to be the third independent branch of the government, able to do the work that society trusts her. In view of the weaknesses recorded in this way, the correct answer is given to what should be done to remove these weaknesses. The strategy itself is based on four basic principles: the principle of judicial independence, the principle, I do not like to speak, transparency, I will say, to the public, the principle of accountability and the principle of efficiency. If these four principles are met, the objective of the strategy will be achieved, and it is to establish the rule of law and the security of citizens as a basic condition for the return of trust in courts. The strategy itself accurately provides for implementing bodies. Until the establishment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, with its accompanying bodies, the administrative office, the affairs would be carried out by a commission to look after the implementation of this strategy. It would have ten members, chosen, not to tax anyone who would enter the commission, but most importantly, to report to both the Government and this assembly every six months, and to monitor the realisation of the strategy itself. Normally, in order to fully implement this strategy, I say complete, because a good part of the strategy can be achieved without even one key element, which is the change of the Constitution, it is necessary to bring a new constitution into which those basic principles guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary will be incorporated. It is thought of that key category or the body of this strategy, which is the High Council of the judiciary, which would have to stand as a built-in constitutional principle; what is this body, its composition and what are the powers. Also, a valid network of courts should be accurately predicted and two other constitutional authorities should be designated, for the first time, as a participant in the judicial system and notaries, as a new body that we have not had so far, and it is a body entrusted with the public functions currently performed by courts and not exclusively judicial matter. It also provides for areas to be regulated by the strategy, as well as tasks to be done. As far as the areas are concerned, it is clear that this is the first principle. It's the principle of independence. In order to guarantee this, it is necessary to establish a new structure, and it is achieved by forming a new body – the High Council of the judiciary, entrusted with broad powers both for the criteria of choice, resolution, material issues of courts and for elections, appointments and criteria for the progress of judges in the service or for their resolution. Clearly, the Council itself will have 11 members, but in addition to this principle of independence, we had to bind it immediately and for the principle of accountability, the Court is the third branch of an independent government, but also responsible and has a persuasion from two other branches, so, legislative and executive, makes the whole of the state government. For these reasons, exactly the composition is provided for where a certain bond is given with the legislative authority and the executive authority, and on the other hand, the principle of choice has taken care of one thing that has not been highlighted so far. The court is an independent authority. The court office is independent and judges are independent. When we talk about this principle of independence, it's thought of judicial function and judges, the presidents of the courts are so-called. administrative function within courts, they are not judicial function. They are determined by that principle of administrative oversight in courts, because they care about the order of courts and the functioning of courts, which they are responsible for. For these reasons, and the different principle of their choice in relation to the choice of judges, but in order to have that link of responsibility, a system of elections is being set up, where exactly in the first election, this assembly will be elected by judges of trainees. So the state is also interested in what kind of personnel will be in courts. They will be elected for three years, because it is considered sufficient to see whether a person knows, knows and can perform judicial functions, and depending on whether it is possible, then the High Council would decide, by valid objective criteria, on his progress or on his resolution, or on his non-gathering in a permanent judicial function, if it is concluded that he is not able to do the job. Another thing that is extremely important, not only for the work of the courts, but for something that bothers our society, it's a matter of the public's work. So far, we've had a variety of information that was incorrect, completely or partially, and they've created a very bad picture of the courts. The courts were quite closed, so they didn't know exactly what they were doing. For these reasons, the strategy foresees two important things. One is, in order to ensure the public work of the court and the availability of what it does to citizens, it is envisaged that courts have persons who make contact with the public, primarily with the press, so that clear and accurate information about what is happening in the court can be obtained. On the other hand, computerisation of courts is achieved, not only (what will later be said) improving efficiency, but also the possibility of citizens knowing clearly what happens to cases in courts. Citizens will be able to see through the site and when the case is received, whether it is neatly scheduled, whether the verdict has been made, whether even the reasons for the verdict have been made, normally, keeping those elements that speak about the privacy of the parties in the process. In this way, when such work is, and already has this two-track and legislative control, it is clear that the possibility of corruption is decreasing. For he who works publicly and with certain control is certain to take much more care of what he does and the possibility of corruption will be reduced. For the efficiency of the court's work, there are a few things to be done. First of all, a rational network of courts should be established and, as you know, the formation of the Supreme Cassation Court as the highest court in the Republic, which would be the constitutional category. His job would be, as with all the Supreme Courts in the world, to deal with extraordinary legal medicines and to take views in order to bring practices into line in the territory of the state. Appealal courts like appeal courts, county courts and basic courts. A valid rational network of courts needs to give us an answer as much as we really need the courts, and how many judges, because in this way we achieve the cost of the work of the courts, and on the other hand, we take care of the rational network to satisfy the other condition, which is the condition so-called. the availability of justice to citizens. In this way, more efficiency would be achieved, but most importantly, the reduction of costs remains significantly more resources for courts, because the idea is that if you look at this strategy, as many young people come to work as trainees, professional associates or judicial assistants, with slightly less salaries than judges. That they're doing the job professionally, and the judges only have to judge. And these young people, even if they don't get elected, can do this job as professionals for the rest of their lives and we don't have the same concerns as today whether we can even find people who are going to come work for these salaries and people who don't have any certainty that they're going to be chosen, so stay there. So, guess, the young man who finished college, passed a judicial exam, should be working for 20,000 dinars, it's normal that we can't get a good fit. This idea is envisaged in the strategy itself, because you would also provide valid personnel for the future, so that when the judge leaves, whether retired or leaves the court, you have a ready frame. The other thing that needs to improve that efficiency is the training of judges, prosecutors and assistants. It has been shown that the ineffectiveness of the courts has also been affected by relatively poor quality, i.e. the intricacies of the personnel we found when we arrived. Convictions have been lifted several times, each suspension has been withdrawn for a year or two days of re-work per case. Then you had a large number of old cases, and it was 10 or 15 years. It is normal that in the efficiency of the new legislative framework, which has already been implemented, and the laws, primarily procedural (and you will have the opportunity to discuss one today, it is a law on criminal proceedings), it will be possible to speed up, but quality must be achieved in this way as envisaged by the strategy, and this is the law on initial permanent training, to enable the permanent improvement of judicial staff, to find a valid relationship between the university, the current Training Centre, or the school or academy, as they call it everywhere, and to get one permanently trained when to perform a judicial function. Now let me say, not only is he originally qualified for work, but he's always working on his training, because he's shown at least here with us that when you choose him as a judge, he forgets to read very quickly, especially new regulations or new standards that are increasingly applied. For those reasons, I say, we're going to do a paper on that plan and again I'm pleased to say that part of the business that's not related to the Constitution, and it's included in the strategy, we're going to do it. And today you'll get a chance, or maybe tomorrow, that's the second item of the agenda, to discuss the law on permanent training of judges, prosecutors or judicial assistants. If we make all this happen, then there's one problem we have to solve. The tasks foreseen in the strategy are divided into three groups: short-term, medium-term and long-term. The short-term tasks were essentially done largely because it was a legislative framework and I think we did it well. One number of even medium-term jobs has been done, connected to a network of courts, because you know that we've been through that job of turning the law enforcement authorities into courts. Even a proposal for a rational network of these courts has been made, but it is waiting to create a rational network, I speak for regular courts, so that a change of the Law on Organisation of Courts and Seats can be made at once. I'm saying, a series of things we're going to do, except for one thing, which might be the thing that takes the most time, and that's the creation of so-called. An independent court budget. We today have a budget in which you have that point 4 of Chapter IV, relating to the court budget, but the question of the functioning of such a certain budget has proved to be bad. That's why the courts are largely lost today, unable to implement the proper planning of what the budget is needed to ensure so-called. a sustainable judiciary. For these reasons, I say that the establishment of this key body, the administrative office, is envisaged, which will make all preparations for the work of the High Council of the judiciary, but at the same time allow for the planning of that valid court budget, which could ensure the smooth functioning of the courts. That might take the longest time, because there were lots of disputes. I can tell you that we have accepted the assistance of the European Union, which has been offered to us, believing that it is a very serious, solid country, which is properly arranged, that is Germany. We have come to a single conclusion that, and when this independent court budget is established, the question is whether it will be necessary to allow this full independence, because it could endanger the legislative body, the constant conflicts between courts and requests to increase the costs of one court in relation to another court or one court in relation to the other. Tomorrow, when it is regulated by law, it will most likely be the formation of that independent budget, but that investment remains to be done by the state, and all other things, such as training, regular costs and incomes, are left to the courts. One, for the first time a valid newspaper, which you see, which is a lawyer, given its role in the justice system and its participation in the work of the courts, is the first time we have introduced it as a constitutional category. I'm glad there won't be any brakes. The Law on Lawyerry is in the Assembly, it's only a matter of when it comes to the agenda, that you discuss it and eventually adopt it. There's a law on notaries in the works. It'll be over in May. In this way, we will fulfill another medium-term task. It's one newspaper that, unfortunately, we've had a 60-year break, reintroduced. It should allow faster and more efficient judicial work, on the other hand to enable citizens to come to some of their rights cheaper and faster. Since public functions are being transferred to the new body, it is normal that it will have to be defined as a constitutional category. The prosecutions - we did what we usually do so far - was discuss what is at stake. You had opinions that were not disputed theoretically, since Monteskia the division was carried out clearly on legislative, executive and judicial authority. There's no dispute here. Questions arise as to what prosecutors are then. We've been doing this strategy for a year and a half. One of the reasons he was so attached to the prosecution, how to determine his position. We went to Brussels, we went to Strasbourg, we got opinions, we had opinions and we had Germans. What is most interesting has given us the opinion of the Venice Commission as a body tasked with discussing EU legal issues. What is important is this: in all EU countries this issue has been resolved in a very simple way, because it is true. The prosecution is part of an executive authority entrusted with prosecution, and it needs to be independent in performing its duties. So, the only independent body, like the third branch of government, is courts, but not prosecutors. This is not disputed in the countries of order, which have a long-standing democratic tradition and established institutions. We are a country in transition, and we felt that we should not go to such a solution, but find a medium solution. If they're not already courts, they're not just executives, they're given certain protection. You see in the strategy that she was determined through the formation of a high council of prosecutors. Normally, those matters concerning state and state policies will be decided, on a proposal from the government, by this assembly and by electing prosecutors, but the deputies or assistant prosecutors will work high-level council of prosecutors. In this way we give certain protection, precisely because of the fact that we are a country in transition and there are possibilities for various pressures. To avoid it, a solution is given, which will be made by law. Right away, the strategy talks about system laws, which means not laws that can be changed by simple majority, but by system laws. They will also refer to those parts concerning the prosecution and the courts. On the other hand, part of it is covered by what needs to be done on the automation and computerisation of courts, in order to achieve more efficient work, better insight into what they are doing and that citizens can solve those problems that are insecure for them today. Because when you do, as you would say by foot, so the clerk each works with a hand and a pen, there is a terrible waste of time and citizens have great costs. In this way you will achieve that they can be granted the satisfaction of these rights related to the administrative part of the exercise of the judicial authority relatively quickly. Normally, one part will also apply to the Ministry of Justice, because it must also achieve one valid efficiency, so that one part of the administrative oversight that the Ministry of Justice is doing today will be transferred to courts, but those two basic functions of the Ministry of Justice must be strengthened, which is everywhere in the world, and this is legislative activity and relations with abroad, related to so-called. legal assistance and relations with international organisations, so that those valid standards and standardisation of our legislation can be met. I say, I'm pleased to say here, and you voted for those laws, that a lot of those jobs were done. Personally, I think that these deadlines that are given in the strategy, we've looked to them to be objective, but looking at what we've done so far, I'm convinced that these deadlines will be shortened and that we may not have to wait in 2011 for the courts to be able to take over this material side, that they are taking care of their material position. For these reasons, I propose that we adopt the strategy, because it is indeed a key document, based on which we will have to do all the other jobs, if we want to get what is asked of the state. First of all, to be legal, effective, and to be able to meet the needs of citizens to protect their rights in so-called. reasonable deadline. I believe that there will be good proposals in the discussion, which will certainly have meaning for later legislative activity, but I am convinced that there is a will that this area, which is not slow to have a lot of problems today, will be resolved in a valid way and put on its feet, and the next day we have a neat and valid state. If you want to see the state, look at the courts. If the courts are valid, then you know you're in a good and orderly state. As our goal is, I urge us to adopt this strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26229	Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26230	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we are today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussing an extremely important document – a national strategy for judicial reform. It would be good if the national strategy were adopted, to apply what is written here as soon as possible, because many things need to be changed in the area of justice in Serbia and to change many things as soon as possible. The situation is not good, the situation is very bad, thanks to some people, I have to say, although we are talking about justice, the judiciary and the prosecution, but we are talking about the area in general, and the responsibility for the poor situation in the judiciary is borne by individuals who, unfortunately, have put their function, their work, what the Constitution says, what is contained in the laws of the Republic of Serbia relating to this area, at their feet, into the service of the policy of certain parties or within the DOS or the entire coalition, and who since 2000, unfortunately, have brought the judiciary to very low branches. The SPS finds this document in general to be good. Our parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of a national strategy. We think there's a few very strong reasons for that. Namely, the SPS believes that it is necessary to remove all the bad things that have been happening in practice, especially for the past five years, since DOS has normably arranged this area, and some people from the judiciary have hardly abused their function, of course in the interests of DOS, and individuals in their own interest, and always relying on the law, on democratic principles and values. How much did this take me to remind you that from here from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from this pay phone, some DOS people publicly called people from the judiciary to arrest the Socialists, to file criminal charges against the Socialists, criminal charges against people who were employed in the state authorities in 2000 or earlier, whether they were members of the SPS or were elected, appointed on a proposal from the SPS. This is where the initiatives started from here. Of course, then the media would be mass involved in that campaign. In advance, people were found guilty of what they had never done in their lives, of what they had done by respecting the law and doing a very safe and responsible job to which they were elected and appointed, and then the judicial authorities, that is, the people of the judiciary took those things into their own hands and the work moved on. The SPS believes that this national strategy needs to be adopted for a reason because it is necessary to restore faith, reputation and honor to function holders, both judges and prosecutors, because individuals, putting themselves in the service of DOS policy and performing its political dictatorship, i.e. persecution of political insinuators, have compromised both the judiciary and themselves. Of course, they didn't think much of themselves, because they believed that DOS, and with DOS and them, would last unlimitedly long, and for the judiciary, justice and justice obviously didn't care. The SPS believes that this national strategy should be adopted for the reason that it is necessary to restore both faith and belief that the judiciary, and above all, the judiciary, really the third branch of the division of power, in addition to legislative and executive, and that it is truly independent and independent and that it will really work in the interests of citizens and the state. I think these are some absolutely sufficient reasons, even at the level of the general finding, to adopt this national strategy. I think it is necessary to say a few words about the content of this document itself, since it contains some findings, valuable attitudes, comments, which must be put to the public's attention and say a word about them. For example, in several places, it is mentioned that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a limiting factor for a better situation in the justice of the Republic of Serbia. We socialists don't share that attitude, because we are fully convinced with those solutions that the Constitution contains, that the situation in the judiciary could have been far better than it is now. The poor situation in the judiciary is not guilty of the Constitution and cannot be blamed by the Constitution, it is the individuals who have misused their judicial functions for their personal gain or for the persecution of political inexperiences. Why am I saying this? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains several members related to courts and public prosecutors. Allow me, I will quote them, to see that, as far as the Constitution is concerned, there is no obstacle to the regulation of the judiciary or that the situation in the judiciary is better. The case works, Article 96. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the courts are independent and independent in their work and are tried on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts. Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the judge's office is permanent, that the judge ceases his office when he asks for it himself or when he fulfils the conditions for an age pension laid down by law. The judge may not be against his will to be relieved of his duties, unless he is convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for at least six months or for a criminal act that makes him unfit for the exercise of his judicial office, when he carries out an unequivocally and unwittingly a judicial function, or when he permanently loses his ability to perform his duties as a judge. The Supreme Court, in accordance with the law, determines the existence of a reason for the Court’s termination, or for the resolution of judges, and informs the National Assembly. Article 102 says the organisation, establishment, jurisdiction and composition of courts and court proceedings are governed by law. Article 103 says: "The Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal offences and other laws of certain criminal offences and invests legal means to protect constitutionality and legality. The public prosecutor's office is based on the Constitution and the law. "Article 104 reads: "The establishment, organisation and jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office is governed by law. ''Article 106 says, ''The public prosecutor's function is permanent. ''I have quoted individual members of the Constitution as saying that there is a very precise position of both the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office, and that there is no and cannot and should not be any obstacles to the situation in the judiciary being good. Bad, I repeat again, and I will always repeat from this pay phone that the situation in the judiciary is bad, because individuals have abused their functions by working in the interest of one policy, the defeated policies, but many of them have been chosen on the wave of that policy and today they are the ones who enforce the law and apply the right and make justice. It is also necessary to adopt the strategy in order to establish a new way of selecting the holders of judicial functions, so that the choice of judges and prosecutors and, in order to know the whole procedure, that the responsibility of all in the procedure is clear. I'm saying this for the reason that since 2000, we've had one true urine in the judiciary, a cut that wasn't conditioned by objective criteria, but was primarily the result of political will, the dictatorship of one policy. In all 2001 and mid-2002, a total of 150 court presidents of 165 were changed in Serbia. So 150 of the presidents of the courts were elected then. As these presidents of the courts have been elected and the elected judges are sufficiently speaking to the Justice Committee at the time. That's what we talked about here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to remind you one more time, because that's what we need to know, to know who in the judiciary is working for us, the Supreme, the only, deciding and final criterion was DOS personnel policy, DOS personnel commission. Eighteen people, members of different parties, sat down and agreed who could be a DOS representative in a particular municipality or in a particular court or at the head of individual courts. There were no attempts, acclaimed exceptions, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's parent committee to say more about the quality of the proposed candidates, their working experience, the number of solved and unsolved cases, the reputation, moral and professional which they enjoy or should enjoy essentially. No one talked about it on the board here in the assembly. It was important to achieve agreement within DOS that someone could be elected judge, prosecutor, or president of the court. The candidates who were then elected are sufficiently told by the public and never denied that they were elected judges and presidents of the courts by eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve years, that the average of their studies was 6.28; 6.36; 6.54; 6.78, that some of them had never set foot in the judiciary, honor and other professions and lawyers from other areas, but it proved to be so, back-to-back, the entry of these people into the area of justice is no good. That's what I was talking about in both 2001 and 2002 and later with the circumstances on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Almost the chairman of the Supreme Court Supervisory Board noted, interestingly, that people who were not in the judiciary and entered the judiciary did not bring justice to any good. They're simply not familiar with the functioning of the judiciary. As the chosen people have done, they make numerous criminal charges against the Socialists, against other people of other political orientations, but in any case those political orientations that are contrary to the DOS, because a number of criminal charges were filed during that period for abuse of official office, when there was no legal basis at all, but the basis was sought. In fact, we were in a situation, given that some of our people acted extremely personally, they filed criminal charges against DOS members for the same reasons they received criminal charges and then we had a paradoxical situation that prosecutors, for example, acted differently in the same situations. In relation to one criminal case, the case is initiated, it comes in order to the court, and in the other case it is dismissed without any desire to get into the essence of the matter. I am now referring to six cases of criminal offence, abuse of official position, abuse of use, where the accused has been charged with abuse of official office when the defendant has acted in accordance with the law, but allegedly has not obtained the consent of a higher authority directly, although such proceedings are not subject to the law, when the prosecutor has filed criminal charges against the SPS members, even in those cases where he himself has found that the participant has acted in accordance with the powers and powers he has had, and that in the whole case, he did not have any personal benefit, which is, of course, that the indictment was based on political motives. Often, criminal charges were filed for the abuse of official office and against non-directed persons, two or three of the officers against whom the indictment was not filed, but rather against a member of the SPS, saying the indictment was based on political motives. A criminal application for abuse of an official position has been filed and in cases where a business and supervisory authority accepts that the job has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the contract between those entities. In some cases, the prosecutor also filed criminal charges for the alleged abuse of his official position and when material damage was done less than the one prescribed by the law, which suggests that such an indictment had a political background. In some cases, the public prosecutor has filed criminal charges for abuse of his official position due to alleged disregard for the business procedure of the authorities, although the same work on the body is not disputed, etc. These are all examples of how some people in the judiciary did. They were working directly against the SPS, there are a dozen cases. I'm going to mention two, in my opinion, equative examples that show what it's practically like to work by individual judges when they're working on a political dictatorship against the SPS. One example is the fate of our business space on the Savawere, on Milos Pocerca Street. When we complained about the municipal court's decision, the district court's decision and the trail of our appeal, the matter went to a settlement at the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Supreme Court made a solution that annulled the district and municipal court decisions, so the fundamental thing went back to the beginning. But believe it or not, that solution of the Supreme Court of Serbia stood in the drawer of the President of the Second Court for 23 months, the same person who is through means of public information, when I tell us not only to the Socialists but to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gave a lesson as to what the judiciary should look like and what people in the judiciary should do. The second case is an example of our business space in the municipality of New Belgrade, where we have had a frantic situation that SO Novi Belgrade has filed a lawsuit against us, therefore, against the SPS, with the claim that we are not the owners of space, and we have been using that space for 15 years. When we came to know the contents of this lawsuit, we went and saw the land books of the Zemun municipality, because there's a cadastre going on about the immovableity, then we found that someone illegally deleted the name of the SPS as the owner of that space. We immediately filed an appeal and we have a state of play, which is that the same court, so the Fourth Court worked in favour of SO New Belgrade in certain legal terms and ruled, of course, in favour of SO New Belgrade, not wanting to look at the same time, let alone to enter into the SPS lawsuit, which also stood for three years. Now the trial is scheduled and simply for the three years that case was in the other plan, because it had to be done. We found out off the record who's the employer of such an attitude, who ordered that our lawsuit not see the light of day and, simply, the people of the former DOS, in this case, the people of the Democratic Party are someone who directly decided about it. Not to mention the example of the situation in the judiciary, those things that were done at the time of "Sablje", before that, it is a frantic case of the kidnapping of President Slobodan Milosevic, when, in addition to all the laws, on the basis of one constitutional decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, kidnapped, none of the people from the judiciary, nor the investigating judge, nor the district court, nor the Supreme Court, anyone who had to act by law. That silence was a signal to everyone that there was no law and that justice was carried out by the leaders of DOS and, of course, in the judiciary by those they chose. And then it's no wonder that in Sabre's time, it's against the law again, aside from the fact that the state of emergency has been brought in against the constitution, but it's against the law that 12,000 people have been arrested. All this shows that there was one tendency to put the law completely into the other plan and to work on the DOS dictatorship and the leading party within the DOS, the Democratic Party. I can't help but mention the role of the judiciary in privatisation, because privatisation is, for us SPS members, the biggest robbery that has been done in the public eye, but without the reaction of the people in the judiciary, the judicial authorities. In two, two, two and a half years, it was privatized, and essentially robbed, what generations and generations created, a thousand of the best companies were sold for about two billion euros. Although, for example, in the 1990s, only 49% of Telecoms were sold for a billion 536,000,000 marks, and that was then taken as evil, and then sold a thousand of the best companies for two billion, and it was declared an "epochalic" success. Some people from the judiciary played a very dirty role in the whole privatisation process, because the owners, the new owners of this huge wealth, were basically protecting them. Why? If the case were to be brought against them, it was toiled until the owner's change was made to the end, people fired and simply killed the will of those people to seek anything, let alone bring about justice. One case of robbery through privatisation we had through bankruptcy, where in a situation where it requires a certain interest group, bankruptcy was introduced terribly quickly and the situation was changed overnight, immovablely and each other, and factually, and the state property was robbed. If questions were raised here or in the courts, then a general response was received – it will be seen, it will be heard, however, that the judicial authorities did not work. Two years ago, I mentioned the situation, the example works, in one company, the formerly famous firm "Centertextile", and here, the view of the "Employment Review" has been published by the state that owns 97% of the "Centertextile" and quite logically employees are seeking their rights. They demand that the state reacts that this huge state property is not sold out, does not diminish, and no one is responsible for it. And we have another situation that those people who have legally bought individual companies so that they are not allowed into possession, at the disposal of that property, let alone the process of production. I mentioned last time an example of the company "Bačka" from Canople near Somboro, where a man for three years owns, can't get into possession, and now I wouldn't say this if we didn't have proof that local self-government three years ago asked the court to introduce bankruptcy and even suggested who should be, it worked together with representatives of the minority union of Independence, so there's absolutely proof that they entered the business, but the essence of the court's decision is not being carried out. So there are a number of reasons why this national strategy should be adopted. I just need to say one more sentence. I am fully convinced that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia played a great positive role in the state of justice and an attempt to change the situation in the judiciary because, right here, from this place, a lot of people, especially the MPs, but also colleagues from the SRS and other colleagues individually, I must say that someone would not feel offended, they mentioned a number of cases of illegal behaviour of people from the judiciary and they were the valve, that one voice of the public who helped to change the situation in the judiciary better or that at least try to change the better. That's a good thing, because if it hadn't been for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the public wouldn't have known a lot of things. The way we work in the judiciary has left many things aside, and unfortunately the High Council of Justice has compromised the function and the work they have done with many of its actions and behaviours. Because unlike the National Assembly where everything is done publicly, transparently, where everyone says what they think and answer for what they say, in the High Council of Justice, many things have been done in silence. For all these reasons, there are others, but unfortunately there is no time, the SAA will support the National Strategy on Justice Reform, because we expect that the strategy will lay the basis for better justice, for respect of the Constitution, for the application of the law, for the equal position of citizens against judicial authorities and for the protection of their rights, that the court will simply exist because of citizens, that there will finally be justice and justice together, that there will be no political persecution, that there will be no court proceedings, different behaviours in the same situations, double arches. We want the best and most professional to be elected, and the best elected for the most responsible functions, and all to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26231	The word is from MP Jovan Palalic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS believes the proposed National Strategy for Justice Reform is a strong step towards strengthening judicial independence and restoring citizens' confidence in the institutions of justice. Although so many times, right here in the National Assembly, we have had discussions on a series of important system laws in the area of justice, which were reform laws and in some way made several of the four important principles of strategy, affirmatives, let's say, the principle of efficiency, and I remind you that here we have adopted important laws, the Law on litigation, the Law on executive procedure, the Law on Mediation, the Criminal Code and a series of other laws, and at this session is the debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the fact that so far we have not had a comprehensive and systematic reform of justice and a clear vision of how the Serbian judiciary should look in the coming period. It is in this national strategy that it is clearly seen in which instruments, which will guarantee the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the judges and other holders of judicial functions and how citizens will be able to come to the courts in justice. There are no doubt that there were countless reasons why Serbian citizens were not satisfied with the state of justice. There were many cases, these were of course exceptions, but they spread exactly such mistrust, where the law was not applied, where the rights were misused, the proceedings were delayed, and the citizens did not receive the basic judicial protection for which there was a court. This not only endangered trust in the judiciary, but puts wider trust in the institutions of the entire state at risk. The courts, as an equal branch of government, were precisely in such cases incomparably placed that citizens do not believe in any way when they come to court that they will protect their rights. There have been attempts, by various laws adopted here, that this very important part, which makes this reform, among other things, a return to citizens' trust in the judiciary, is made certain. The national strategy now takes a step further by the fact that one authority, the high council of the judiciary, is strengthened, in those functions that will make the institutions of the judiciary and judges individuals truly independent in the application of their rights and the exercise of their functions. Much of the controversy is about what a high council of the judiciary should look like, what its composition, what functions, has been a lot of criticism on the account of that, right here in Serbia, especially when it comes to selecting the holders of judicial functions, proposing, criteria, which so far has been quite far away from the public; the public has not had the opportunity to see to the end what criteria they were when proposed by the holders of judicial functions, especially what criteria they were when it comes to career advancement, the choice of multiple judicial cases. I also didn't notice that any party in the Assembly had anything to do with courts having their own budget or, in the end, having a key role in creating a court budget. We've had a lot of doubts about what the labour performance standards are and how much these standards are going to affect exactly the key fact of career advancement. It was said, quite justifiably, by the Supreme Court representative of the serious material problems in the functioning of the judiciary, of the problems in which the facilities themselves are being tried, of regulating key material issues of payout, of basic costs, even of consumable material necessary to perform this important function. When the proposed national strategy is seen, the objective is clearly seen, procedures are clearly seen, and I am convinced, when an action plan is adopted, clear deadlines, in which way it will be implemented. Of course, we welcome the fact that this very national strategy is being discussed in the Assembly, because without strong support from the Assembly and the MPs, as was the case in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, there is no key support for citizens to implement this important document. The fact is, this is the most debated in the proposed national strategy, the reform of the Visa Council of Justice, which is now called the High Council of the judiciary. When a parallel-legal analysis is made of the situation in certain other European countries in which the body is selected, it will be seen, according to the situation in the judiciary and in general the social circumstances, that the proposing has found a measure precisely in the way in which this important body works. The fact that most in the high council of the judiciary will have representatives of the judiciary elected by the judges will play a key role in the performance of these functions, which are now transferred to the high council of the judiciary, means, proposing candidates, selecting candidates, career progress, disciplinary procedure and not talking about the fact that many management rights are transferred to high judicial councils, when it comes to judicial work organisations, establishing labour standards and impact. The fact that the judges are about to have the upper hand in this body is a strong step towards strengthening judicial independence. Of course, it is important that other important institutions, which play a key role in the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, the Serbian Parliament, the Justice Committee, have their own representatives, thus establishing the necessary communication. The fact that the proposed strategy is elected by the President of the Courts in the Assembly is what is very important. This shows that the control of the work and management of the courts is left in this parliament and thus guarantees the strong role of parliament in this control work through the Ministry of Justice, which has parliamentary responsibility in the Assembly over the work of the full judiciary. Why is that a step forward? We have in parallel the fact in many European countries that the composition of the High Council of the judiciary is completely different, where either the National Assembly has the upper hand, and in many cases the judges do not choose parliament, we have cases in many serious European states where judges are appointed by ministers. The fact that the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, the Charter of Statutes for Judges, are respected, clearly indicating the need to form an independent body, namely this composition, says how much the promoter had consideration and in view of the fact that the judiciary wanted to be dominant in the creation of key policies in which it took responsibility. What was important here is the fact that the high council of the judiciary will play a key role in creating the judiciary budget and taking on important management roles by the Justice Department. I think that, during this transitional period, strong support from the Ministry is needed to strengthen the management capacity of this administrative office, which will have a number of important and difficult tasks, as someone who will operationally implement the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary. When the Administrative Office of the High Council of the Judiciary assumes these key roles and becomes the creator of the judiciary budget, in this partnership relationship with the Government and the Ministry of Finance to provide the necessary material resources for the functioning of the judiciary, we will be able to say that we have fulfilled the important role of those who best know the problems in the judiciary, the problems facing the courts and judges daily, they will be able to propose what means are needed to ensure that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed in that part too. What is important and what is foreseen here in the national strategy is the establishment of a national institute for judicial training. We have a bill that's within the second item of the agenda on this particular subject. Finally, in Serbia, the story is serious. We will have one permanent education in the fact that many laws are passed and that we will be forced, as a country that has entered European integration, because it recites a large number of European laws, where our legal system will change very quickly, that our judges are following it, that they are adequately following and that they have concrete support through this institute that will certainly come to life with strong support from both the ministries and the government. As I said, the management carried on to the high council of the judiciary should strengthen the efficient management of cases, should strengthen the more efficient delivery, because there was the biggest problem so far, many complaints were just delivered, the way the cases were delivered, and how law and law could be misused. Of course, the opening of the judiciary to the public, which is foreseen here and through the establishment of a special public relations office, an effective response to citizens' complaints, is something that is foreseen in the National Strategy. As I said, this strategy, rounded up like this, offers a clear vision of the judiciary and for the first time in such a strategic document, when each part of this strategy is implemented by 2011, we see what the Serbian judiciary and its institutions will look like. It is very important that here in the National Assembly, as well as the Government and the Minister provide strong support for the strengthening of these management capacities that are needed by the high council of the judiciary to take on these key roles. In that sense, we in the DSS strongly support this document and propose to the National Assembly to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26233	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the public of Serbia has been persistently, intolerably reported over the past month. The minister could also be irradiated by the cameras as much as he tried to prove to us that we're bringing in an act that finally provides the most important function of the judiciary, which is independence. He added, of course, another three conditions that the judiciary must meet. Since we are the opposition political party, we do not have to express our praises here, we do not have to praise everything the government proposes to the National Assembly, I will try to warn you of the shortcomings, flaws, inadmissible solutions or findings in this national strategy that the government should not have come to us with such an act, if it has already come out, which is why this act should be withdrawn. If you have a job, a job to deceive people and make good wishes to them, don't go through justice, because it's the wound that hurts Serbian citizens the most with the police. It seems to me that this national strategy was designed to equate Europe in another way, by some formalising European standards in Serbia. I also see this advocacy in the fact that you have rudely collapsed on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that you have thrown under the feet and the National Assembly, and in this way Europe has said, indeed, when you order us something or when you direct us, there is no sanctity for us in Serbia. The national strategy is based on Serbia's new constitution. You didn't mix the bread now, but you'd like to eat it. For six years, you've been writing a new constitution for Serbia, because the existing one is wrong?- I'm sorry. His frames are tight. Practice, the new laws we need to pass over these frameworks. We don't change the Constitution, we're not a normal state. In these six years, we are not a normal state. We attack the Constitution, we make unconstitutional solutions because we don't do well with the Constitution. We don't care about the people, they won't vote for you. That's why you don't even give him a chance to show who he's going to vote for, because the people don't know. That's why you don't respect the Constitution, because the Constitution has tight frames. It's written in the '90s. You called it the "Milosevic" Constitution, and now you've stopped something, since you're drawing rights for him, the capacities that the Constitution determines for you. It is really unbearable to suffer in the National Assembly this kind of blow to the Constitution, I would say the coups the government wants to carry out in the National Assembly. Let the government do whatever it wants, but don't you MPs join it. Don't join that! The government accuses you of not choosing judges well. That is why, he says, and corruption in the judiciary, therefore poor efficiency, which is why ignorance, therefore spending resources, obsolescence. All because the National Assembly chooses judges. Now, there's going to be some advice to choose judges, even the president of the National Assembly to be the declarative signator of the decision. The president of the National Assembly will be the declarative signator of the decision that someone else makes. The National Assembly can't get rid of judges. How did you come up with that? He can choose him for the first time, and then a declaration solution will extend to him by the president of the National Assembly. What's he got to do with him? Why would the president of the National Assembly be here, the doll in front of which someone takes some kind of oath to extend the deadline. But you've got a good idea of how you're going to choose that advice. That's nice! Now we're going to fight here in the Assembly who's going to be the chairman of the Justice Committee, which will give you the opposition this place from now on. You may take that place, because you are in power, and you will create an independent judiciary by making your representative of the government the chairman of the Justice Committee. So, not to mention how you introduced as a constitutional category some kind of court that doesn't exist in the Constitution. And everything in Serbia is normal. The minister of justice here dares to write that Serbia's highest court is the Supreme Cassation Court. Minister, what are the judges going to do tomorrow, how do you control them, do they operate by law when you're not going under the Constitution to pass on any material to us here? Have you read article 91, I think... 95? It's not 95, Veronica. Now we're gonna do it in a row, 'cause I wrote it all down. First, Article 102(2) says: "Serbia's Supreme Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia". And the minister says, Supreme Cassation Court. Do we live in the same country, Minister, are we talking about the same Constitution? You say it'll be under the new constitution. And now what are we doing with this strategy? Give us a strategy to adopt a new constitution, let us bring a new constitution, to work out the laws of authority and jurisdiction. But why the debate on a national strategy that cannot be passed, because it is not based on the Constitution. This is a pre-election campaign. When we are in power, the composition of the judiciary will look like this: we will have this court, this and that, the prosecution will work this way, the lawyers, the notaries, the notebooks, everything will be when we are in power, but in order for you to achieve it, you must not go into constitutional solutions or you will tell the people – when we come to power first we change the Constitution. I've been listening to the Constitution for six years! No, for a year and a few days you don't want to change it, and I've already said that about this pay phone, and you from the DSS and the president of the Assembly, who's the most involved in it. And after my criticism, from a month ago, did he change anything? It's not. You don't want a new constitution, it requires new elections. You do not want elections, you are an interested group created in this assembly, not among Serbian citizens. Because if the citizens of Serbia created a group like this, I would bend my head, but this group was created by MPs. You've lost, many of you, credibility. What do you stand for in G17 plus? To enter Europe? The president of your party five days ago accused the government of not allowing him to introduce Serbia into Europe, and you support the government. It's called schizophrenia in medicine. So you put one head in here, and there's another one on the street. You think here as an MP who supports the government, and on the street you say this government shouldn't be supported. Let's get something straight -- who says we don't need judicial reform? Nobody. Who did you consult on judicial reform? No one. You say: The Constitutional Court will resolve individual decisions on the election of judges. The appeal is to the Supreme Court. Read what the Constitutional Court is doing there. I have not heard that the judge elected to the competition will have the right to appeal to the Serbian Constitutional Court. What circumstances? What does the Constitutional Court of Serbia evaluate? You say there has been a sharp conflict of the Constitution with the reforms that society has been leading, with new relations in society, economic, social and all, and this conflict has lasted six years. And let's solve it by telling the citizens of Serbia that this Constitution is unbearable and let us pass laws that are good for Serbia so that you can live better and leave the Constitution aside. It cannot pass among Serbian citizens. He can't, because every day they're experiencing violations of the Constitution, no one's defending them anymore, because when some Serbian radical gets into a house looking for a Hague fugitive or who's running away from the indictment, and the order is issued by a special war crimes prosecutor, I ask you, "Where's the state?" Where's the state? That a man hides a war criminal, does that man need to be dealt with by a special war crimes prosecutor, is his crime a war crime, did they establish a war crime to cover up a war crime indictee? You deceive us in public with great affairs, arrest some you know will have your decision as a foothold in the people, it can be seen that they are criminals, but this way, only the people could arrest you for your arrest. This is the lynch atmosphere, such as October 5th, the burning of the Assembly. In that atmosphere, you can never prove the guilt, how many people you've arrested, slowly let them out of custody, shut up. And who was convicted? Nobody. But there's a new affair going on, the citizens will have confidence in the government – the government is becoming more honest, the more persistent it is doing its job. You can't let this happen, Minister. I appreciate your work in many parts, and I know how limited you are, you have great limitations, but you've got yourself in a wheel and hold both hands; your grandmother would give five to the bank to get out of the car, but they don't give, you hold hands and you have to play. But this isn't good, it's not good for anybody. Don't every day convince us that everything is fine except for the Constitution. It can't be accepted by anyone in the world. No Serbian citizen can accept that everything is good except for the Constitution and that the constitution should be ignored. That October 5th is a turning point, all that is written, every congregation, and you dared to do so after October 5th, every congregation before October 5th, every assembly was not a national assembly. You have annulled the decisions of the National Assembly here. About what? It's about the judge's election again. You also returned Vučetić to the seat of the Constitutional Court judge, then the President of the Constitutional Court, because you said that you did not agree with the decision of the National Assembly before your call. He mustn't be answering you. You do not agree with the Constitution, which was brought to your people's will in a referendum before you. You mustn't be any good! Do you have a better one, do you have 50% voter for your constitutional proposal, then go to the referendum?- I'm sorry. If you don't, this constitution is the best in the world. That's how the state works, because if that's how we start to question the system's institutions, then what do we expect? What legitimacy does the government draw from the election of these MPs here? Every day, you look at 126 MPs. Whatever you want, Mr. Minister, our MPs are going to go down, they're going to come up with individual solutions, and we're prepared to do that. There are solutions that we would immediately sign, there are solutions that we first announced in public, we would implement them immediately, but don't touch what the Constitution doesn't give you the right. You must not explain yourself or even in solutions to write that the Constitution is your brakes. Then your brake is democracy, then your brake is the National Assembly, even the People's Will. You are not above the will of the people, and you are not smarter than the people. When you accept that, everything will be easier for you. You will bring good laws and good judicial reform if you accept that the Constitution is good, because you are unable to do better. You may have it in your computers, perhaps in your mind, in your imagination, but you don't have it in public and you don't have a foothold for it among Serbian citizens. I don't regret it now, and I may have made a terrible mistake for the SRS to help you get to a new constitution, but this is a barren business, this is a business that you lead and that will never be done. And then you're going to justify yourself, because you can't get this job done, you need some short solutions, some shortcuts to a new constitution. Because it can't, it's unacceptable for you to come here with a bill of law, this is the law for me. Just as the people say, this is the law, this is going to get the organisation of the courts, but it can't say in the first sentence that the constitutional framework is narrow to carry out the reform, how, I don't know. If the Doss government had done it in the other majority, before you, I could understand. They've been kicking you out of the Assembly here, even though you're MPs, you've given them back their MPs' IDs here, but I didn't expect this from you. I can't believe it now. In some body that will now lead you, in some agency or office, as you call it, there, the chairman of the Justice Committee will choose a member from the National Assembly. The chairman of the Justice Committee chooses this one, chooses that one. The judge, the judge's society and the lawyer's, you shouldn't have said it – the president, but they'll decide. So on behalf of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Justice Committee will give us a member. How can you imagine that? How's that even possible? The chairman of the Justice Committee will become a very important person in Serbia! You want us to be around the head of the Justice Committee? You didn't do this right. I followed, as far as possible, your public appearances. All good wishes: that judges have good wages, that they have their own budget, that efficiency is enormous, that everything is automated, that every judge has information on some of the judgments they are interested in, that whoever controls the work of the courts has a tabular review and evaluation, the quality of the judges, according to various criteria that will be established. It's all good, it's all acceptable and understandable. It's a court organization. It's fine. It's fine. With this appeal court, you're stuck. You'd rather go back to the way you were if you weren't ashamed. If it had been possible, you would have done it. I don't even know how you look each other in the eye. All your deadlines for forming that court have passed. How did you want to form him without a foothold in the Constitution, I don't get it?- I'm sorry. So whenever you promise the people something good, it can be done in 10, 15, 20 days. When is this going to happen? When the Constitution is changed! What does that mean? Maybe the carists will take the left lane when the new constitution comes, but the minister of traffic doesn't come out to say – we'll drive the left lane, so the English, so the Australians, South Africa, see how good that is, the steering wheel on the left hand, and we're all right-handed, and only when we get a new constitution. That's the way it is with this. We've got a lot of short jobs, the country's at risk from all sides, and we're getting here. We sit and talk about what the judiciary will look like when we bring in a new constitution. I'd like to take a seat and talk about a new constitution and provide a two-thirds majority for that new draft constitution. I don't care if anyone's against it or not, if it's a two-thirds majority, it's a constitutional category. You're even here saying this court is a constitutional category. You don't say -- it's a being; it's a constitutional category. Where's that president of the congregation who knows the verbs, changes the "l" to "o"?
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26235	And he knows and uses. You go ahead, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26236	It's a good thing you're here. I've only got a little time left. You know that, inspired by your public statements, police have raided the home of the head of the RTS National Orchestra, Branimir Djokic, that the order has been issued by the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. I guess they were chasing someone wanted by The Hague tribunal, I don't know what, but all after those statements you made that you're amazed that Serbia is on "the edge and the march", whether it's overrun or not, because Ratko Mladic hasn't been arrested. Mr. President, I'm asking you to keep your tone down in the future, the frequency of your steps, because it seems to be an incentive for certain police authorities, special special, to break into people's houses. They break in, they take the man, he's been in police custody for four hours! God's asking you why. Not an apology, not a public story, not to see what he gave the order to arrest the head of the RTS National Orchestra, just because he plays in Republika Srpska for free, just because he's in Kosovo and Metohija today, for 15 days playing free with his orchestra to those whom you don't provide bread, electricity, or water. If you are already in charge, and I hear that you are in charge of controlling how various organs work, take a little interest, Mr. President, who is being arrested in Serbia, with which explanation, and when they let him go home, which at least doesn't apologize to the Serbian public. You know, this is a prominent member of the SRS, and we're not gonna let you bully our prominent members like this. Convince us there are criminals here, so do whatever you want. I seem to have convinced you that there are criminals in your home a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26237	The word has an authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, MP Marko Krstin. Of course, by respecting rhetoric, I always insist that you should apologize or apologize or whatever, but to bear responsibility for your actions, whoever is responsible for it, and I know, so I also realized what you said, that it is an obligation for everyone to take care of both the tone and the way they do their duty, knowing that someone can always be inspired, but people for inspiration never bear responsibility. I sincerely hope you don't want to do this either, but to just remind us of what the law is and in view of the law that, in accordance with the law, you have to act. That's how I understood. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26238	Mr. President, I would ask you to keep in mind that you are the president of the National Assembly and that this was an unexpected reaction on your part, an emergency press conference called for the president of the National Assembly. Some were glad to resign Predrag Markovic, some were afraid to resign Predrag Markovic, I expected to hear what you were going to say, and in fact, in the tone in which the Deputy Prime Minister spoke, the day before, showed, on behalf of the National Assembly, I know that you represent her, but on my behalf you did not say, that day you showed that the Assembly was also concerned that the Serbian government was unable to arrest Ratko Mladic. And then when they saw -- now we're already being criticised by the president of the assembly, then they sent two or three hundred police officers to Banovo Brdo, searched all the houses in the neighbourhood of Ratko Mladic. People, don't make a man who barely gets paid or otherwise provides himself with a living space, first needs to see who's in his neighborhood, then a geneaze, so if he's accused of some war crime, so when he makes a buy-out deal to write, the contract will be nothing if one of my neighbors falls under any doubt by the state authorities, because I don't want you to scare my kids. Mr. President, you tell Labus, Kostunica and these, if they arrest, let them arrest whoever they think should be arrested. Don't let the people run down the street just because they're in some kind of relationship with Ratko Mladic. Right now, if you want all of us in some kind of relationship with Ratko Mladic to arrest you, you don't have that kind of space. The construction fair would have to stop, empty the halls and shove us all into those halls. That's what the Germans were doing at the Fair, the old one, you can do the new one. I'm just warning you, Mr. President, I accept that I may have apologized or apologized or apologized, as the people have already said, and my deputy board of directors says "expensive," and I like that, but I'm just asking you to keep in mind that you really represent the National Assembly and that you keep that in mind when you make statements, and that you can be an inspiration or an instigator with your statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26239	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I didn't want to challenge the Rules of Procedure or the replica from this place, but just because of what you pointed out, I wanted to make it clear. I am aware of my obligation and I am aware that sometimes it pleases me, sometimes it doesn't suit others, but I am aware of my obligation to represent MPs and I take care of it. In this regard, I cannot influence how anyone is going to make a statement, so for this reason I have once again pointed out that I have acted in accordance with my obligations, and when it comes to statements and a concrete law, I have to repeat, although I suppose that you, as you all know, my personal position as it is, I have said it several times, when law enforcement is not allowed to be humiliated by people or institutions. I didn't think there was any need to repeat that every year. Thank you all for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Kristin. So the laws have to be enforced, I have to keep reminding myself, but no one can be humiliated.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26240	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in front of the National Assembly, is an extremely important document that in the system divides the authorities, as established by our Constitution, practically forms the basis for the reform of the judiciary that is necessary and we will support this document. G17 plus believes that it is time and time to adopt one of these strategies and that it really needs to have sufficient grounds for what is envisaged and to be implemented during a certain period of time that is also committed to this strategy. The National Assembly, however, is in this system to divide the authorities something special, because the National Assembly is in fact the expression of the National Will and, as a branch of government, in fact forms and chooses the remaining two branches of government, which are later established as independent or independent to a certain extent bounded by the Constitution, by law and other regulations. And the constitution and the law also brings this National Assembly. And because the original national will appears here, it is a special responsibility of the National Assembly and for how, in what way, the other two branches of government are established and functioning, means government and justice, that is, the judiciary. Just because of this special role is a big responsibility when we talk about the strategy that lies ahead. I must point out that this assembly has already worked in this strategy, and until there were no strategies, many laws have been passed. We've really had expert and studio discussions about a number of laws here. At this session, we will round up the criminal justice system with us, to a large extent we have done it with civil law, real law, with family law, with labour law. Many institutions have already been arranged, and this is a great credit for this government and this ministry, and before this reform of the judiciary. By reading the reform of the judiciary, I can't help but think that the many documents, which the Ministry of Justice has given us, in essence, and expertise, and content, and serieness as the problem has been processed, overcome the strategy in the text in which it was given. The strategy has certain shortcomings, which I would speak of at this time, which should be removed in the process of its application or by the proposing, if it considers it necessary. In the decision itself, as it is formulated here, we have certain shortcomings, and it is a member of the first decision that the strategy is printed with a decision. Of course, it is not an integral part of this decision and the Assembly's decision should not contain that verb "print." The text could read as follows: "The national strategy attached to this decision is being established". What is necessary under point 2 of this decision? We have a strategy committee here, we commit to Article 4, we have the government to appoint members, and we have obliged the commission to report to the Assembly. But we didn't form a commission. If we commit her to inform the Assembly, then we need to educate her, to form her. That could be point 2. I think it would be much more cellular for the members of the commission to choose this assembly, precisely considering the responsibility of this assembly to form the judicial authorities and to give them the legal framework, on the one hand, the professional framework, means the humane framework, which will enforce those laws. Because of this particular responsibility, I think it would be very important for the commission to educate and appoint its members, or elect this congregation. Under point 3 of the Decision, all national authorities under the national justice reform strategy are bound to cooperate directly on the implementation of the action plan. Since we are a congregation that, of course, gives tasks to ministries and governments, they would be obliged to carry out these obligations and to cooperate. These enforcement obligations are lagging behind, which is necessary and this stems from the relations between the Assembly and the ministries, i.e. the Government. With regard to the national justice reform strategy itself, I must point out that the very diagnosis of the problem has not been fully established, and perhaps that is why there are some important segments about the measure and the activities to be taken. I think when I talk about the weaknesses or problems of the system, I don't think the state's responsibility for the slowness of justice is sufficiently highlighted. I want to mention to you the European regulations that no one here has mentioned, and I think our citizens deserve to be mentioned. In certain European countries and these European regulations, not all countries have accepted this unless the state provides protection of the rights of citizens they are seeking before the courts of the country within three years, the state owes the damages. I, for example, would love a regulation like that in our legal system, and I think it would fit both citizens' rights and better protection, with full protection, because the state is actually a public service. It is not above citizens, it is an expression of the will of citizens to form some government organisation and manage it through the MPs and bodies of this assembly. So, I'd like it to be one weakness that would be removed in certain ways. We also did not mention it as a weakness, and it was necessary to, inadequately edit and achieve a prosecutorial function in the legal system as set up. We are all aware that the prosecutor's office is not being properly accomplished. I don't think he's been defined and that the relationship between the judiciary and the prosecution is working very badly. Unfortunately, this is seen in this strategy where the prosecution is asked to "closely co-operate" with judicial authorities. The prosecution is an authority, a party to the proceedings. The prosecution should not co-operate closely, the prosecution represents the state's interest by raising and representing the indictment. I think we can still talk about the unfavourable material status of legal holders, this assembly has done a lot to fix it, but above all other employees in the judicial authorities. I just want to tell you that without delivery, there is no procedure. Did we in this strategy take a position on improving the material position of other judicial employees, without which the judge cannot judge? I don't think we've paid enough attention to that, and that's a very important segment of every judicial system, including ours. So, no suppliers, no dactylographs, no co-workers in office no justice, no legal, no effective exercise of rights. We had to talk about it a little bit more. Key principles, he says, "The working judiciary is based on four principles (I could agree with): 'independence, transparency, accountability, efficiency', but I miss expertise very much. Why? Because the strategy itself later indicates that we need to pay attention to education, to the permanent education of legal holders, and we just have a law that is dedicated to it, which we bring to this session. I want to tell you that when we choose judges, there are only two criteria under the law: dignity and expertise. Why wouldn't there be expertise here? For me, top-notch expertise is a condition for someone to deal with decisions such as judgments, which are resolved on the most vital, most important rights for each of us. I think it's missing here. As far as the controversy surrounding the Constitution is concerned, I would give the right so much as I believe that the Constitution in the work relating to the definition of the status of the judiciary itself, in the part relating to the division of power, has the necessary guarantees that the judiciary could be established as a system and it is proof that the judiciary here works. We are not quite satisfied with how it works, but we cannot say that the Constitution is a limiting factor, so the judges are not independent, they are not independent, etc. No, the Constitution gives enough frames for something like that. It is a matter of other circumstances and factors which in certain cases do not establish that independence or independence. But it's a matter of processing, it's a matter of procedures being conducted. We can't qualify the entire judiciary as if it weren't independent, it's not independent, it's just not true. So it's about coming down to the lowest possible extent. Of course, that's one goal that's not only in front of this government, that's the goal that applies to all systems, to all societies, and we need to make sure that we get as close to that goal as possible. Therefore, the Constitution is not itself in that section relating to the organisation of the judiciary, to the status of the judges above all, which is most important, to their inability, or to their continuity, to their independence, and then to the provisions of the prosecution, quite enough to establish a judicial system that can function normally. Should any new judicial authorities be introduced into the Constitution now? I agree, if we want to have a supreme cassation court, then it would really be time for him to find his place in the Constitution. I want to remind you about the stories about the fact that the lawyer has not been in the Constitution so far – so she's been in the Constitution since 1974, now she's not in the Constitution. I think the barrister is a place in the Constitution and I'm in favour, indeed, as is this platform for lawyers to be in the Constitution. I also think it's very important to introduce a notary function. It's not something new, it's all around us. I think that's right and that in this way a certain function of the courts is being resolved in a way that other institutions can do the same thing and that public interests are being satisfied. I also think about enforcement, and I'm going to mention to you a few countries around here that have executives, they have special organizations that deal only with the execution of certain court decisions, means civil matters and individuals. It is no problem that those who meet the conditions and act according to the law as special institutions do the execution, that we disburse the courts. I can tell you that such executive procedures are more effective and more effective, because people really work here for compensation, and you know exactly who's registered to do this, he has certain rules, and while he adheres to it effectively and earns his money. Furthermore, as for the authority implementing the strategy, I think it's very good that the education of these bodies is foreseen, I think it's a good thing it's a commission. Of course, I have certain objections as to how the commission is formed. I think we could have formed her here in the Assembly, just like we did other things, because that's the most body she could have done. I don't know why the Serbian Attorney's Chamber's Management Board is the only one who's legitimate, not the Voivodina Attorney's Board. I don't know why the University of Belgrade Law Faculty is the only one who's legitimate enough to do that. For 50 years, there has been such a college in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. So we could also think about whether it's concentration, decentralisation or what it is. I think we've overcentralized things here and cleared the congregation of some things we shouldn't be dissipating. I think those are the things we should be holding. We're here at the hearth, and everything else is happening under surveillance, under control, and based on the rules that we're prescribing here. Furthermore, we have foreseen here that the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly is overseeing the reforms presented in this strategy. I can't see at all that the Committee can do surveillance, I don't think it can. The committee is called the Justice and Administration Committee. In particular, I cannot explain to myself, as a lawyer, that the Committee on Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the judiciary will provide guidance and guidance to the Commission on specific aspects of implementation of the strategy. The "Secure" policy on whether it means bringing them, whether they bring them in, so you have to tell them you have to execute them, or they'll simply put it in front of them. Security isn't some term that means anything to me. On the other hand, if they're supposed to be above the commission, then I'm not sure it fits the relationship between those organs. Then, after the commission, we have a secretariat who was the executive body of the commission, and in this case, the secretariat informed everyone else about the commission's decisions, except the commission. So, I think we should link it up. So the secretariat would have to report to the commission. As for the administrative office, I think we have a problem with the restrictive setting up functions, jobs, etc. And I think if we have a commission and a secretariat, that's enough. Administrative officials can be located within the Secretariat to do the job. This is how we have three degrees, which each other have undifferentiated powers, and especially since the secretariat does not report to the Commission, which is absolutely not allowed, because the secretariat is the authority of the commission. I think it's a kind of reorganization, we could do something more about it. As for the framework for judicial reform, it means, when we have a tabular review on efficiency, at stake one on the right, "Better Access to Justice" – for me, it would be a much more important respect for deadlines in terms of efficiency. Prescribing and respecting deadlines is the law for me. This, better access to justice when it comes to efficiency, somehow, I don't really understand as a lawyer, but deadlines are deadlines. The deadlines serve to make certain rights come true at some point, at some time, or to become obsolete. So for me, the question of efficiency is the question of deadlines. I don't see the word "rocks" here. So he says, "Modern Network of Courts," I totally agree. I've talked to the minister a little bit more about whether we've evenly burdened the holders of judicial functions. I don't think we're worth building a network of courts, if in doing so some judges who judge have 50 cases in work, and some 500 in work, like in Belgrade and Novi Sad, or in Panchev, or, say, judges of trade courts who schedule hearings every five minutes -- in Panchev, in Novi Sad, where you simply can't get into court. So, first of all, we need to see where and how much the judges are charged and make equal access to the citizens of the court. If a citizen in Novi Sad is to wait four months for his first hearing to be scheduled, and a citizen in the Plandište or Novi Becej can expect the hearing within a month, then their rights to the courts are not equal. We need to establish the equality of citizens' rights before courts. So I think I miss that, too. I think it's a good idea for the High Council of the Judiciary to be a constitutional category, of course. As far as the Constitution is concerned, I think we've made a lot of sense, and I don't think there's any major obstacle to that... As for the independence of the court budget and the independent budgetary authority, I think we all here advocate to be a truly independent budgetary authority. However, I prefer that courts and prosecutors as beneficiaries of the budget to be independent, means that they enter into budget formation and, of course, take care of how they spend the funds they have at their disposal, as well as all other users. I don't see why we can't trust that some president of the court who's now pretending to be, as I understand it, more to the administration, won't be able to handle his own budget properly. I don't think we've considered the issue of court taxis, which is not good. I think the taxes are pretty big and they're a limit to certain categories when they're addressing courts, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we've increased the share of courts in taxes here, so we've made one effort in this assembly. However, I don't think it's enough for 60% of the taxis to be in the courts, I'd trust the courts with everything, but I'd make the court's responsible presidents work. I don't see why the President of the Court or the Prosecutor isn't capable of me, within what he has, deciding how much he needs for certain positions. He must hold those positions as all ministers here or anyone who has the budget. After all, there's an inspection, let him control it. That would be, like, independence for me. Furthermore, with regard to the transparency of the judicial system, this is very important. So there's not a lot of objections, I think it's very important to inform the public about what's going on in court, but I think that we both now and in the Law on Judges and in the Law on Courts have regulations when, as well as who's being informed. It is very important who in court can provide information and are very important procedures and deadlines in which information is given. So, we don't have it yet, and I think procedures, deadlines and authorized faces are very important. It doesn't matter that it's called the office, it can be done by the Secretary of the Court, just like the Secretary of the Court does now, but it's simply a matter of procedure. Let's get the President of the Court to pick the man who's gonna do it. I think that's how it works. Point 3 says, "Better active public relations and greater public participation." I think we have a problem with these terms "better active relations," which is not the clearest thing for the strategy itself. I will again insist that procedures and deadlines and obligations and responsibilities be carried out. This is the most important thing for citizens and for every judicial system. The responsibility of the judicial system is very important. I think that the responsibility of the judicial system stems from the responsibility of the judges and how much judges are responsible for the work they do, how far their responsibility reflects their choice and resolution, we have that responsibility in the judicial system, but the state has to stand behind it if a citizen has suffered damage, as I just said. As far as the prosecutor's office is concerned, I think the prosecutor's office is a little under review, deserves much more consideration, and I think it's a sleeping, tromping mechanism that doesn't work properly. Some things can't stand in strategy. He says, "This strategy is exactly predicting the prosecution's position. The reform of the justice system's... to work the prosecutions in close co-operation with the employees of the judiciary. The prosecutions are independent authorities from the judiciary, such as the judiciary independent of the prosecution. So, when a lawyer shows up in court, the prosecutor can't stay there and talk to the judge without the lawyer coming out. Such a set of circumstances must not be initiated by this, "close co-operation". There's no "close co-operation." Cooperation is within the law. The prosecution is pressing charges and representing her, initiating the investigation and leading her, as we have now predicted, and there is no co-operation there. I don't know what you mean by co-operation. Does the court cooperate with lawyers? He shouldn't cooperate. He shouldn't work with the D.A.'s office either. The prosecution brought the case to court, the court judges, the lawyer defends. It's a division of the function of the law. So there's no close cooperation. Secondly, it is impossible for hierarchy and subordination to give more independence. The prosecution will always be hierarchized, subordination and over. It's very important that this is about public notebooks and that I finish. I think it would be very, very useful for them to say this to the High Council of Justice, our Supreme Court, and also the Constitutional Court, since it is given jurisdiction, I think these powers are good at protecting the rights of candidates for judicial and prosecutorial functions, the Vojvodina bar and Serbia and, of course, law schools. That would be very good. And another thing that I think is good – that the funds needed for this must be foreseen. I would like to remind you that in the decision, on the right hand side, we are talking about the government's obligation to provide funds, and we are saying that the funds are not necessary. So a little more attention wouldn't hurt to get it in line with each other and see how much it's worth. The G17 plus will support this reform with these indications, which can be removed. I think that reform is necessary and that it is a part of the state government that needs reforming, especially given the events that we almost had, and I mean, especially trade courts, which could also find places in this reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26241	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, application for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. Compared to that, the first word will be the MP of the people, Toma Busetic, and Alexander Vukic, and Vladimir Homan. With the presentation of MPs in the reported order, we will begin after the break, but before that, Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic asked for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26242	I'll just give a few answers, 'cause I can see that there's a certain problem. This isn't about any act contrary to the Constitution. We have a Constitution and we have a certain system, that is, basic principles embedded in that Constitution. Here it is merely an opinion that if a new organ is created, then the Constitution would have to determine its position, its composition and its authority. In the rest of the work can be done without touching the Constitution, because, besides, according to this Constitution, organisations, composition and operation, that is, the framework of the work of the judicial authorities is determined by law. That's why I said that a good number of things we can do, to make laws without touching the Constitution. We now have the High Council of Justice, and we will have after the High Court's advice. We have the Supreme Court, we'll have the Supreme Cassation Court. In that sense, you need to make changes, but when you're making a network of no disturbances, you have the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal, the county and the basic courts. So, you'll be able to do anything without touching the existing Constitution. Therefore, there is no objection that something unconstitutional is being done. Tomorrow you will pass the law, the Law on Criminal Procedure will be passed by the Assembly, as voted by the Law on Prosecution. It will not be touching the Constitution, for it is the authority of the Assembly which it performs and makes laws, the realization of certain things, not touching the Constitution itself. There was an amendment here, and it was related to what MP Krstin said, the matter of the commission. The amendment pleaded that the government should work. Mr. Krstin thinks the Assembly should appoint a commission. The Assembly does not have the authority to carry out policy, administrative functions and therefore went to the Government to determine the Commission to do this administrative or administrative work related to the technique, but also to take care of this implementation and to account for, as to the Assembly, truth be told, the Committee, because it is considered to be the body of the Assembly to which accounts are held, the Government and the High Council. What you said was that, eventually, the secretariat should be put in, it's just the authority of that commission, and on the other hand, it's a temporary body. The Commission serves until a key body is established, and that is administrative. The administrative office is a key body. When you get the High Council of the judiciary and the administrative office, then the authorities have nothing more to do. In this regard, the administrative office is the key authority, and this secretariat will be entered into its composition. That's exactly what's said in this strategy. I have to agree with you that the question of the Constitution is important, and it's as important as entering into a new constitution of certain principles, no one here is saying whether it's bad, simple, certain things we have to change or introduce, and we can't do that in the current Constitution. It is therefore necessary to make certain changes, and all agreed that a new Constitution should be adopted. This is just an pleading that certain key things for the judiciary are brought into this new constitution, because the Constitution still guarantees independence. If all this were to be done by law, I guess we understand that the law can always be changed and that independence is threatened. For these reasons, it was only principles. Anything else can be done with laws and norms. The most important things are always done by system laws, and the less important things are done by laws where the simple majority is enough. It was said that it was to be introduced as a principle of training, i.e. the quality of the education of judges. You have seen that in the strategy it is clearly worked out, but it was thought to go into that part of efficiency that expands to three principles, so one of these three principles of efficiency and better quality of work, because it gives better efficiency, because a better judgment is more rarely abolished and gives better efficiency in work. The Parliament's question has also been asked. Surely the Assembly is one of the branches of power. I said it would be picturesque, although it's three branches of government that are equal, one is a little more even. And that's the Assembly, and that's why we bring a strategy and we build principles into the Constitution, because if it didn't have a constitutional guarantee, it would be in a situation where it could change whenever it wanted or in any election if someone wanted to change certain things. That's why the Constitution is important. We've been transferred a little bit to the Constitution. I have to say, I can't influence the adoption of the Constitution. That is what this congregation decides, and as far as I understand it, the congregation is working to make that constitution. When he'll be brought in, it's a matter of Parliament, but not of this ministry. That's what I was gonna say. And let me say this amendment that's been put more on (my, your) remarks about who's supposed to be setting up a commission. I think the executive authority, or management that can implement this, should bring it in, and you've probably seen in the strategy essentially that the action program has already been done. It will then be just a control of the realization of that program.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26243	Pause until 15.00 hours. The first speakers are Toma Busetic, Aleksandar Vukic and Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in order of the registered Members of Parliament. According to statements for the word, in a single review of the draft decision on the establishment of a national justice reform strategy, MP Toma Busetic first came forward, and should be prepared by Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Stojkovic, is on the agenda today for a debate on judicial reform. Experience teaches us that when it comes to reform and reform, at least in the last few years in our country, it means that in part of a variety of reduction or abolition of employment rights, unemployed, pensioners, students, sick, and perhaps when it comes to this reform, there will be a reduction of rights for the widest circle of people, for Serbian citizens in general. And if that were the case, the best thing we can do is confirm the laws in these areas, so to speak, in all the areas of social life and work that have been brought in over the past few years. For example, if we talk about the field of labour social legislation, we know what laws have been passed in 2001, 2002, 2003, and God’s and other changes over all these years. So that's what the Labour Act was, the Employment Act. All these laws meant restrictions on employees' rights, where the employer's resignation was possible at any time, where reduced cash compensation, severances, vacations, paid leave and all that was important for people and all the employees. If we're talking about the Law on PIO, we've had a lot of restrictions here: stricter conditions and when it comes to the pension system itself, stricter conditions when we're talking about the pension billing, when we're talking about harmonising pensions, means maximum restrictions! It was similar about the Privatisation Act. The privatisation law has mutilated Serbia's largest robbery. In Serbia, the biggest robbery occurred during the few years: the best companies were sold, companies were so shut down, people were left on the streets with no hope! The example works, only during the privatisation of these few years, 33% of employees are out of work compared to the total number, which means that we have the number of unemployed increased from the time of our government, from 2000 to today, by about a third or by some 400,000 people. You'll admit it's a great restriction and a great restriction. It's similar when we talk about the Health Insurance Act, where we have a significant reduction of rights. This is about sick people, insurance people in the broadest sense of the word. When the word reform is mentioned, including what Minister Stojkovic wrote in this decision, we are rightly skeptical that this national strategy on judicial reform will bring something special good. Is this where all the cuts, restrictions, layoffs, difficulties in the position of users are hidden again, and in this case it is about citizens seeking justice?- I'm sorry. Let's take it in a row. In an analysis of the lack of justice, it is a complex and broad system of courts, resulting in higher operating costs and less efficiency when it comes to access to justice. What does this mean? What is meant by the reduction of courts, or the abolition of dozens of courts? Will that mean the judges are out of a job now? It is likely that judges will not run out of work, most likely that by reducing the number of courts or abolishing 50% of courts, there will be a reduction in the number of employees, but that the car will break mainly to dactylographers, officials, that the car will break primarily to Serbian citizens. If certain courts are abolished, e.g. The courts in Pomorava County, and there were words in the legal circles that the court would be suspended in gureia, despotovac, Rekovec, the judges will most likely not be without a job, but they will travel to other courts to work and will have the days of judgment and whether there are any savings. There is no special savings, except that we may reduce a number of officials, and on the other hand citizens who seek justice will be deprived, because they will have to travel many miles to get to those courts. We believe that the optimal solution was a solution that seems to have been established at the time of our government, and I'm talking about municipal courts, where every municipality has its own judgment. This is normal because courts represent an elemental form of statehood, regardless of the separation of all these functions, executed, legislative and judicial authorities. Furthermore, it is full of mouths of almost all government members from 2000 to today that everyone advocates decentralisation. How will decentralisation occur if we now have the abolition of a number of courts. In my deep conviction, the minister can pick up the word afterwards, and I expect him to tell us what that means and what reform means, does it mean to abolish all these courts and how it is understood and thinks that decentralisation is done if we now abolish the courts in a number of small municipalities? And according to one of my resolutions, if you go that way, you'll have 50, maybe more municipal courts. How will this improve the efficiency of courts, allow better access to justice if we abolish these courts? We will have such a situation and the minister should know, the SPS will not vote to abolish the courts, it is quite clear that citizens will have to travel. I'm talking about Pomorava County: we have a court in Jagodina and a court is lifted in Rekovec, and we have villages 20 - 25 kilometers from Rekovec and 30 to Jagodina, so they will travel 55 kilometers to achieve their justice in Jagodina. Or a similar situation related to other courts. However, it is obvious that the media are again orders from foreign governments of the Western countries, which, unfortunately, this government is listening unspeakably, regardless of whether it is in our interest, and we have the most beautiful opinion of Minister Stojkovic, but perhaps he too cannot avoid all that is ordered, so they say - can't courts be municipally 10, 20 kilometers from one city to another. But what is most important to us is the fact that justice is available to citizens, that they are as close and normal as possible and that we mean that in every municipality we have to have a municipal court. Here, let me also tell Minister Stojkovic, whom I greatly appreciate, regardless of the situation, to read a little Chomsky, to read Stiglica, who speak of what the new world order is all about and what globalisation means in the broadest sense of the word. I think that program is being implemented all over Europe, even in our country. So, one universal robbery of the poor world by large capital; and in this whole story, the creators of the new world order want the population to be tortured, to suffer, and if it's about treatment, they don't all have health books, and if it's about pensioners, they have to be as small as possible, and if it's about the workers being as much on the desk, on the street, there's a lot of competition and there's less to pay them, and that's a fact. After all, Chomsky is the greatest living intellectual, declared in some polls, and what he says I agree from "a" to "s" with everything he says. If we are making an analysis of judicial reform and the reasons for the adoption of this strategy, it is said that unclear standards of choice, impeachment, results of work and progress for judges are. Do you think something special has changed with the education of the High Council of Justice? I am deeply convinced, by education and by forming the High Council of Justice, nothing special has changed, simply, the High Council of Justice, in my opinion, sometimes acts as a lobbying club. Has he ever advocated that they are the best in the first place and that our best suggestions come to this facility? In my deep conviction of such proposals there were, but a number of these proposals were not, in any way, related to the basic criteria, and the basic criteria, should therefore be, I think of all those judgments that were confirmed, to the quality of the trial, to the urgency, and to the years of life and experience. We've often had a situation for court presidents to choose people at the age of 30 and I don't mind if they're extremely educated, but I don't think these people have come to court by that very logic. Today, if we were to run an analysis of a previous decision and the choice of judges and prosecutors, in our time, and even a few years later, the main word was the Assembly, but they also had committees for the judiciary. Believe that higher quality and better solutions were when committees had all the responsibility, regardless of the fact that the committees were in some way politicized in the sense that the congregation majority chose as they would, so she also had the opportunity to propose. So this is about the need to adopt a strategy because of an inadequate programme at the Faculty of Law which contributes to the unpreparedness of future leaders in the legal profession. Minister, we don't need to talk much about leaders, it's a common word that was present during the first three years of DOS government and most of it was said by Miroljub Labus and Batic. Batic talked about how we would be leaders in the area of justice, and Labus said we would be leaders in the area of economy and economy, and the disaster was also in the judiciary at the time of Batic, including during Labus as regards the economy, including all the other leaders who led the country from the downfall of our government. We should simply avoid this leadership, or mentioning the leader. In political terms, the only leader in Serbia who has been in the last 20 years is only Slobodan Milosevic and no one else; a man who received so many votes, who had so much trust in the citizens and a man who was right about everything that was happening in Serbia, and he well predicted what would continue to happen in Serbia. When we talk about this poor equipment, so this strategy is needed, because the courts are poorly equipped, I want to agree with the minister that it is true, but we have one situation – the Municipal Court of Justice is the best equipped court, one of the best equipped courts, but it may only happen because it is 10 kilometers from Jagodina and Paracino. They have a sufficient number of cases and this once again adds to the fact that we should keep all these courts, that no court should be abolished, because there is a reason for their existence, so to speak, every court in all municipalities across Serbia. So we know very well when we talk about the court's equipment that the foreigners immediately equipped us with this "special" court, that court is the best equipped, some big donations were given, Batic boasted. But you know how, they equip us with a "special" court -- to judge Serbs or to judge Serbs!- I'm sorry. On the other hand, they're not ready to get us two or three factories up on some meadow and people working here, getting paid, making payments, starting production. They're not ready for it, but that's why they're equipping us with courts and still giving us some donations that have nothing to do with the needs of our citizens. What surprises me, Minister, why advertise judicial reform? You know, that reminds me of Djelic and all these ministers from the first government, because they're advertised, and we know how they came, they were the biggest experts to serve Serbia, and they're going to as soon as they complete the reforms to go to their jobs in France, and I don't know where, for 100,000 marks or euros, and they're all deployed here, they're going to take over these banks, and there's the board presidents. For nothing, the government's representatives talked about it – don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. If a thing is good, it is good, and the ad is mostly fake and serves a purpose – it is useless, it is not good, but if we advertise it, the people will swallow it all. Unfortunately, often the people manage to swallow it. These words about independence are the key principles of independence, transparency, because I think that every mention and forsaking of that word -- independence, no court is independent, because it has always been in the office of executive authority, the president of the state, and may be for a while. I suggest a second solution, so that the court can be independent, let's pick these judges in direct elections, in a referendum, so those who are the best people I hope know well that we will have an independent judiciary. Therefore, when we talk about transparency, I think it is too high, but what is important and what should be said to this occasion is that I am surprised, especially by Minister Stojkovic and DSS representatives, why is such a hack against Ratko Mladic being led?- I'm sorry. Why do people who are neighbors, friends, what does it look like, do the authorities really think that by arresting Mladic and his extradition of Serbia will go better, that it will be economically prosperous, that there will be progress? They don't want my men, because blackmail doesn't end. Today they say give Ratko Mladic, and tomorrow they will say give Radovan Karadzic, and the next day give Kosovo or Europe. So those blackmails will be. On the other hand, it is amazing that the ministers in the government are indignant with their statements, so – shame on you, young man, so why don't you give yourself up! Therefore, I think it is a disgrace of this government to treat the man who is for me, Duke Misic, because he has done more for Serbia, to create a Serbian state in Bosnia through Drina, a man who defended the Serbian people. So I don't know what it's like to give in to an international factor. Here's the constant humiliation, we have a trial in The Hague on the Bosnia and Herzegovina lawsuit, and they've taken their time off, but now they won't be excused, and there's a danger of not being excused at all and being tried like that. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija negotiations, what progress is that? They don't even let northern Mitrovica be a special municipality, they blackmail or humiliate all the time, and I think it's one stupid thing that if Mladic turns himself in, that in Serbia everything will go better, that everything will be okay. Why would the young man turn himself in? To whom should he surrender? These villains in The Hague? He'll be convicted immediately and behind that will be a great opportunity to be declared genocide by the people. I don't understand. I really didn't think this government would behave like Doss's government, Zoran Djindjic and all those ministers we know how they acted, how they arrested people and how they extradited them. While there was a return of these generals, even though I personally disagreed with it, it could somehow have been swallowed and people had returned. There's no way Young Man's coming back! The verdict was written in advance, and it's all clear. Okay, that's political issues. I just want the minister to say, in terms of judicial reform, does he really think that the reform will include the abolition of municipal courts? I think it's a huge mistake. We simply couldn't accept it at the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26246	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26247	Mr. Bushetic said that one part was political, so I won't comment on it. Here, just two things he asked as questions. The availability of justice is not just about the number of kilometers someone would have to go to court. And in the orderliest countries, they travel 70 kilometers when they need to get to court. When it says "accessibility" to justice, one is meant to allow citizens to protect their rights. We have a situation where we have one layer that's richer, one that's poorer. We need to get a poor citizen to have justice available to him, so he can protect his rights before the court. For your information, the law on free legal aid ends in May with these very layers, to make justice available to them. That's what's important. Don't just look at miles, look at this much more important thing. Second thing, you asked why the commercial. Let me tell you right now, it was an EU donation, there were some resources left, and our wish was to bring the strategy closer to the citizens, so they know what we are discussing here. It was a wish. It wasn't about advertising, it was about the end-user who needed to benefit from this reform, at least to know what was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26248	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, and let Vladimir Homan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's MP, Toma Busetic, spoke nicely here. That's true, there's only one problem – which he'll give the quorum again tomorrow when he needs it and he'll back up the government again.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26250	To speak against the law in the position of government support is a matter of honesty, strength and consistency, and speaking against the government and the authorities of the opposition position, that is understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26251	Please give me back my time, Mr. Angelkovic. I don't think this has happened in the history of the National Assembly. Mr. Angelkovic can do that. We've known each other a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26252	That's what I was listening to in 1992, 1993. I'm giving you your time back, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26253	I'd like him to say so and then disable the others who do it, because we're talking about serious things. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, as the only opposition party today in Serbia, because they can't be the opposition to those who have the president of the Republic, who have the province's power, who have the largest city under their control, when I say so, I mean literally, meaning, the robbery, the kidnapping and all kinds of ways they manage Belgrade, in which you are helping them, you know that they rob and silence their robbery everywhere and in every place, so, as such a political party implies that we don't vote for the government's proposals. This proposal by the authorities is completely pointless. What the president of our parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, spoke of today, is absolutely true. In implementing and describing the current state of affairs of something called the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a National Strategy for Justice Reform, it says: "The 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is an inevitable obstacle to the way of establishing the rule of law as the supreme value of constitutional order." It means that we live in anarchy all the time, that we don't have a legal state, that we don't have a rule of law, respect for the principles of constitutionality and legality. Where does this say and how does the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia interfere? Who explained that to us here? Did anyone tell us that? No, it's not. They didn't even bother, they didn't try, but they used one rude and reckless flossule that's being used daily in political attacks by the authorities, these 'novotititov' authorities, I don't know what to call it, because they all call themselves 'new power', 'new regime', even those who have fallen from power, which are old regimes, like these 'yellow' thieves, they're all some new government again. I guess they count on Broz to rule for the rest of their lives. Since all this is so, I ask you, what constitution do you rule by? This is where you predict making some decisions, how when a new constitution comes. Mr. Bushettic, then we won't have municipal courts, we won't have any of that. It's today or tomorrow, when it's voting day, it's up to it. You're talking about the rule of law and the rule of law. At the time of the "Sabbe" action, criminal action, people were detained, not even for anything, I must say representatives of one of the parliamentary parties – the SPS, Uros Šuvaković and I don't know who else, but I know that they were completely idiotic reasons for arresting those people. Today you have a government, all of you, except the SRS, who arrests a guy and a girl who's guilty because five or six years ago they took a plate of cabbage or a plate of beans to General Mladic!- I'm sorry. And these aren't people criminals, they didn't steal anything from anyone, they didn't kidnap anything, they didn't kill, they didn't attack, they didn't commit robbery. Wrong girl because she made two bowls of cabbage! Then you arrest their brother and sister and Ljiljana Vaskovic's mother, I think that's her name, and I apologize if I was wrong. First your brother and sister, then you arrest their mother. Now that we're talking about judicial reform, some bandit is giving them a month of detention right now! I'm saying he's a bandit, and I'm willing to answer for that word I said. That bandit can't be in that place. You want me to tell you why he's a bandit? Because the one who stole 100,000 euros and the flagrants were found in the execution of the crime, you let him become an adviser to banking issues or the director of the banking sector, rewarded him for thieving, and the people who wore a plate of cabbage, e, to them a month's detention, and right away, to everyone. It'll still fall under the law. I believe that Vučetic, father and son – Ristic, said that he spent one night with them five years ago! Look at what you've introduced in the framework of your reforms, the system as a whole. You brought Cvorovic in, ladies and gentlemen, to the big door. Those Cvorovics had something honorable. What you're doing has nothing honorable, only the system of Cvorovic has been taken over, and the worst is being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, the BIA gave a 9191 phone to which someone should answer and say where General Mladic is located. You are doing the same thing, though, at the beginning of the war, until it accumulated a sufficient number of denuants of 50,000 with all the "ausavis", which was done by the German military command and the Gestapo in Belgrade. For every patriot you have, sign up for an exact number and come to that and that address. So are you now. Report to denuntants, pointers, spies and agents, whatever you are, whatever you are and do it. Now there is another question: when Dinkic first did it and came up with those fiscal accounts or I don't know what, so who's going to answer, the media came down on Dinkic and said – the Cvorović system, praises the worst human trait, because being a denunciator is the dirtiest thing on the globe. Being an informant is a denunciator. I know a lot of things in my life, a lot of people can be, but being a denunciator and an informant, that means you're not a man in the right sense of words. You just can't say anything about a man because you're not human. And that's what you're saying, you're an asshole of a man, and like this, it's nothing, it's not a man. You ask people to be inhumans, to be incitings, denuances, or I don't know what. And after a month of detention for those who wore a plate of cabbage or beans. You're running it through your own newspaper. Helping a criminal. What, did this in court prove to be any criminal, any criminal, or even this criminal in The Hague? I don't understand what you're doing. I don't understand why no one answers in this country and I ask everyone in this room, all of you who represent the government – why did Jove Djoga's wife and daughter get fired? That's a question I haven't got an answer to yet. It's that bandit Zoran Stankovic, I said the same thing again, I expect someone to punish me for what you call a minister, I don't know what the Minister of Destroying our army is for, and destroying everything we have, so he said there's no room for a pharmaceutical system anymore. People don't have bread to eat, social cases, they don't know how his family's gonna survive. A terrible criminal, seen Ratko Mladic in 2000. You're a terrible criminal! What's a crime, what some girl made for him, who was 12, 13 at the time of the war, but that man is a legend to her, a Serbian hero, or I don't know what. A terrible crime?- I'm sorry. He's been in custody for a month! Would you, Mr Stojkovic, advise the judges to do so and that it is someone from your family. Just think about it. I imagine my daughter, no crime, nothing, never. He thinks someone did good to the Serbian people, this country, this country, and he's got a plate of cabbage on him. And you to give her a month's detention! Some judge, bandit, investigative, thinks he's very smart, that he's courted himself, that you'll be the ones who decide their fate forever. It's those same judges, Mr. Minister, who are at their own time, and now I'm going to give you a funny example, we almost grabbed Zivanko Radovanchev and I because we were handing out bonuses to the workers, even though we didn't even see those bonuses. And against those who replaced me in the transitional government, those in the transitional government, knows that and Mr. Obradovic, everyone knows that, three months ago, I was still jealous of them for giving a lot more, given three times more than I did in nine months, none of it was against them, Mr. Stojkovic. Are these the judges, the prosecutors, and I don't know who you're talking about? Is it about those prosecutors who are chasing us for participation in a group that commits violence, because we were outside Sljivancan's house, because one of the police officers who were present hit me and I didn't return it? Not because I wasn't stronger than him or I don't know why, but because I still respect state organs, whatever you think of their actions. So, let's go to trial, there's some genius from the D.A., he's being kissed by his mother, someone's got to be responsible for this. Go on. Why would he answer? Because you broke into houses and arrested people to drive them to The Hague, and that's what we need to answer for! I've seen a lot of things in this country, I've heard a lot of things, but I don't think it's going to come out. I can understand the political will, say – we want to extradite everything. I can say that I do not agree with that, but that you are arresting who you arrive at – I only expected yesterday to make us happy with the skill that you have arrested 9,832 bees in the vicinity of Valjev, so that the picture is complete and complete. We have since 2000 referred to the court proceedings that prosecutors are running, which according to official duty, which, according to someone's reports, only when politicians give them permission to do so, and against some you can't possibly start any proceedings because politicians don't give permission, politicians in power understand. Now the question is, what do we get from what you predicted as a reform? He corned the rooster earlier, because we don't have the Constitution, and this is what we have, the kind of legal system you're talking about, we need to have changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't bring the constitution, but that's why we're harmonising with the 'new', under the precepts, or the nonexistent constitution, but norms from something that should follow as laws. And notaries and everything else. Where are your cassation courts? And appeal and cassation, what did you, both basic and higher, predict yet? We are going from reform to reform, as we are taking reform in any area of social life, this area of social life is collapsing. You wrote that people are unhappy. People are dissatisfied, Mr. Minister, because the one you find with 100,000 euros becomes the director of the banking sector or I don't know what. I guess that's his main recommendation, and before that, you keep us informed through the media, a month earlier, of how you dealt with crime and corruption, that there's no difference between those who are close to you and those who are not close to you, etc. Then I'd like anyone to explain it to us in any way, and they can't, and they won't. To know something, what's going on right now, don't get out of your mind, I've been watching a partly good show about Broz. In his day, everything was praised, and then after some historical time, a different relationship comes, as you cannot say almost anything about Zoran Djindjic during media occupation today. We can say, and at any moment, I will say all the worst about his rule and what he did and did and we have no kind of concern and about what a thief everyone from the DS was involved in, so now I'm asking you what would happen to these robberies and cement stores and ironworks and I don't know what everything, and it's big robberies? I don't know if you know, Mr. Minister, that at the time of the most severe sanctions, right after the war in 1999, we had a more favourable offer to sell Beocinska cementar, at 35 million marks, than it was sold at the time of the democratic society in 2001. I don't know if you know about that information. I'll keep you posted. Is it possible that some of them offered much less money? It's possible, in five, ten million less money, they're counting now their friends in power. And the rest is possible only by stealing money, having someone put money in their pockets, the money of Serbian citizens. Was that someone responsible for that? It's not. It is important that you have arrested as the greatest villains and criminals, through your own media, the 25-year-old boy and the girl who wore the cabbage to General Mladic, I believe, in accordance with the reforms of the justice system. I know you think it's going to go very well with Serbia. I ask you, Mr. Minister, if you don't give God and finish it, and what will happen after he leaves with Karadzic, what will we do after they tell us either the EU or Kosovo and Metohija. I now tell you before all the MPs, in front of the entire National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I tell you that there will be the next blackmail either the EU or Kosovo and Metohija. Yes, he will, Holbrooke has already announced it to you!- I'm sorry. It'll be from the EU to you. Wait until they agree with these yellow thieves and those you can't even write about, let alone do something for those who publicly report a profit of five million euros at an annual level, such as this largest tycoon, Dragan Gilas, etc. Since you can't tell them, then you'll have to tell the people how and how it all works. I'm just asking you not to bring... And something else I wanted to comment on, I'm not going to go into the fact that the investigative judges are going to disappear, that the prosecutor is going to take the entire charge on himself, he's responsible for the indictment, what's changing and how it's changing, I don't want to comment. I just want the next thing - better active public relations and greater public participation. Come on, please, God, cut it down! Come on, please, God, cut it down! I'm getting measles, I think, three kinds of allergies when I see these portraits of various courts, and I don't know who, from Bruno Vekaric to that Tomic to the other one, I don't know what his name is! So, literally people get measles, let us out of this active relationship, your relationship is active when Sam Nazaro tells you. And now you're telling us a hollow story, we're all idiots, and you're smart and we don't know why they exist. What are they doing on classes here and there to learn something?- I'm sorry. Oh, yeah! And then Natasa Kandic comes and says, "I'm happy." Who are you to be satisfied with the verdict, what are you? That's what I asked you last time, what she did to answer whether she was satisfied with the verdict or not, is no one's authority. What's she got to do with it? What's anybody got to do with that? Or in this country she is the chief manager for all in Serbia, as some earn. Once again I ask everyone in the Serbian Parliament, all of you who rule, I just don't ask Serbian radicals because I know they don't know the answers because they're not responsible for it, I ask you people to tell me, and why did Jova Djoga's daughter and wife get fired? And why do people get detention, to explain it to me? For three reasons, there is an arrest, you correct me, Mr. Minister. This is: if there is a possibility of influence on witnesses, if there is a possibility of repeating a crime and if there is a possibility of escape. Right? Which of the three reasons for the girl who wore the cabbage? Maybe she's making cabbage again? That it may not affect Mladic, whom she has not seen or who you will follow, or that maybe that poor girl will not escape from Serbia? Well, he won't. From Serbia, it is true, and some who must, but what about such things is being fled mostly by politicians who have a lot, those who have broken up in the plight of the people. We haven't got the answers to those questions yet. It would be good, seeing how these reforms work for you in practice, I'm afraid that tomorrow the cassation court will bring a strong verdict, after 15 days you'll be sentenced to life imprisonment for someone for the head of the cabbage. Looks like that cabbage head is a very big problem in this country. But if you already have a political decision to do it, your job, and don't arrest who comes to mind, because you broke into Banet Djokic's house, your newspaper lies, says: the accordionist kept Mladic! And the man hasn't seen him in five or six years. And you know what you arrested him for? They arrested him, number one, a calendar (dark blue), part one and point two, a calendar (blue colors), one. And then underline, he writes a note: pieces of two have been collected. And underneath the two pieces, the calendars were not found in an unusual place, but on the kitchen dresser where the phone stands. And that man doesn't know what else to say, but only to cross. And so the calendars, the dark blues and the blue calendars were arrested. I expect you, Mr. Minister, to arrest that cabbage head. It would be best if this great quest of yours went through and condemned the head of the cabbage to life imprisonment, and these honest people who didn't steal let them go free, and it's finally time to put the thieves in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26254	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word to prepare Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26255	I thank you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Secretary. Before we go back to the subject, the strategy of judicial reform, I would remind my fellow lawyers, since others do not have to know, that in the still applicable law on criminal proceedings, Article 223, it is nice to say that everyone should report a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted under official duty, in which case the non-reporting of a criminal offence is a criminal offence. So that's clear. Now, as far as the strategy is concerned, it should be said first of all that the judiciary cannot fully reform itself with the existing constitutional system limitations and therefore we have no objection to the fact that the strategy mentions the current non-existent institutes. But it is clear that the adoption of a new constitution is one of the top priorities of our country and that this strategy makes it even more relevant to the currentity. As for the current situation in the judiciary, the situation is such that ineffectiveness, in one part and corruption, only partial independence and citizens are rightly unsatisfactory. In a positive assessment of the feasibility study, it also states that the worst situation in the judiciary is right now, and therefore the G17 plus welcomes the adoption of a judicial reform strategy. I will only mention some of the main guidelines for achieving independence. This is, for example, an independent budgetary authority, transparency, access to information systems, information and court records and data, responsibilities, these are clear standards for assessing the performance of judicial function and the results of work and efficiency, such as the standardised training system and professional training of employees. As for the visions of the new judiciary, I would first and foremost mention one thing that is missing here in the strategy, which is that there is no principle of expertise in key principles for effective justice. We have four principles, but there's no principle of expertise anywhere. As far as the election of judges is concerned, the High Judicial Council will have the exclusive authority to propose candidates for the first election at the judge's office, and I strongly support this because the proposed candidates are elected by the National Assembly for a specified and time period of three years, and at the end of this period, the High Council of the judiciary in the legally prescribed procedure makes a decision on a permanent appointment to a judicial office. In this part, we are very much preventing what we have so far, especially before, and this is some kind of political dependence on the judge. This reduces this dependence, and the criteria for selecting judges to a permanent function are indeed introduced. Following the establishment of a national judicial training institute, it is said it will successfully pass a final exam at the institute, also becoming a highly appreciated criterion for choosing on a judge's post. I'm not very clear on what the criteria mean. I would add that the National Institute for Justice Training should be established by 2008 and that the training will put emphasis on the management techniques of the cases, in order to address the issue of a significant number of cases left in the courts of the Republic, etc. It says that court employees should attend this national institute, however, it should be said that this is an obligation, and one who does not respect the obligation to be removed from his post. What I also support is the separation of the prosecution and the investigation process. a reduction of the role of the investigating judge in the investigation process and a greater role for the prosecution itself. This is an intensities in a large number of modern legislations, and I think that even after the end of the 2011 judicial reform, it should continue to be insisted that, at some point far away, probably from this point on, the investigative judges should be completely expelled from this system. It's about that, and now if you allow a little criticism. I've already said these principles that lack the principle of expertise. In addition, it seems to me that the legislative frameworks of the reform are missing, especially for the foreseeable dynamics and mechanisms of control of its application and achievement. The strategy does not contain a control mechanism. Secondly, in defining the judiciary budget, it is necessary to determine that all revenues from court fees, fines, and pause to motivate the judiciary to more effectively collect the revenues of these fees. In addition, it is said that the teaching programmes of law schools should be improved and evaluation criteria strengthened. However, I think it is most important to prevent what we are witnessing, which is a sharp increase in the number of higher education institutions in private property, which uncontrollably give names of graduate lawyers and which is even worse recognised by diplomas and exams of similar institutions in the environment. I therefore think that it is necessary to prescribe that candidates have only certain colleges that have a number of permanent professors and other staff, and to deny it to those who do not. Indeed, this has increased and threatened, and in the future it can also endanger the justice reform itself. As for free legal assistance in the strategy, it is not intended to at least be entrusted to lawyers and lawyers in part, although the project has already been achieved in some cities in Serbia, such as Nis, Sabac and Panchevo. Free legal aid projects must be implemented through law chambers, in my opinion, and by law enforcement at all. These criteria should be the basis for making free legal aid laws. You can't see it here that it's even under consideration. Given that the strategy provides for the establishment of a high council of judiciary, with very broad powers, as the highest authority in the justice system, I do not understand why, unlike the solution so far, there was no room for any representative of the Serbian Bar Association. Lawyership is the only profession that regularly monitors the work of courts in the nature of its work and therefore the participation of representatives of the Serbian Bar Association in the council would only contribute to its work, and so far the practice in the work of the High Council of Justice has shown and confirms this opinion. Now the Assembly can select one of the two members who can be a lawyer, but that does not give sufficient assurance that the council will also hear the voice of the law profession. Otherwise, this solution is known in many countries in transition that are in the environment, and it is really not clear why there was no place for Serbia's Bar Association in this really important body. I think it could be fixed and fixed. But, in principle, I really need to say once again, as at the beginning, that the G17 Plus party supports what ever came up with a strategy for judicial reform, because it was high time and we hope that by 2011, if it can't be implemented sooner, this strategy will be implemented. With these changes, which may be possible in the period ahead of us, that would be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26256	The word has the People's MP Milorad Mircic, and let Vojkan Tomic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26257	The national strategy rests, according to the promoter, on several hypotheses, of which it is the first and most important, on the need to adopt a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, only a nice wish by the promoter, which does not have enough MPs for the parliamentary quorum, let alone for the adoption of a new constitution. The key principles on which a national strategy is based are that judicial authority should be independent, transparent, responsible and effective. In this case, the proposer of a national strategy, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, acknowledges that the justice system is bad, that citizens' trust is in the same and that it needs to be reformed as a whole. With its own recognition, the Proposer should, along with a national strategy, deliver a written resignation from the minister of justice. In all this, the Ministry allowed itself to present one of these to the National Assembly, not to say the document, but a pamphlet without a clear role in the functioning of the judicial system in it. The promoter not only proposes a national strategy that is bad, expensive and above all inefficient, but also does not distinguish the basic concepts. Thus, all the time, it is argued that the aim of implementing a national strategy is to achieve the principle of justice, rather than to achieve the principle of protection of law. Justice as a philosophical concept has no place in national strategy or laws, but can only be talked about protecting rights. Furthermore, the promoter argues that the current solutions in the judiciary are bad, offering us even worse instead. The motion does not distinguish the court's independence from the prosecution's independence, nor does the national strategy deal with more serious law as part of the judicial system's corpus. So it's not about the need for new laws, but the current government is absolutely incapable of fully applying the laws and constitutional principles, when it comes to the judiciary. Today, the principle of granting power to legislative, executive and judicial authorities is reduced to the manipulations of the executive authority in both other segments of the government, so that the Ministry of Justice can be praised solely by the number of arrested judges, the poor material position of judicial employees and the impunity of the judicial authority. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the most representative body of Serbian citizens, is today electing and resolving judicial holders on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, after these proposals have been discussed in the relevant assembly committee. Such a solution, which implies that the most legitimate body of the Serbian Parliament decides on the holders of judicial functions, has in practice proved to be less bad than the one proposed by the national strategy. The individual independence of judges has so far been guaranteed by the National Assembly of Serbia, in order to establish an uncontrollable and self-controllable body called the high council of the judiciary. A body like this takes over all the powers of the High Council of Justice, the Great Personal Council, the justice minister and the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The establishment of a high council of the judiciary would lead all legal holders to the position of full dependence on the well-being of the judiciary, while the choice of judicial holders would be a list of the good wishes of members of the High Council. It is simply astonishing that the choice of judges by such a body is proposed, as if it will be able to have insight into the work and professional training of candidates for the choice of judges. In addition to the fact that the high council of the judiciary numbers only two members proposed by the Assembly, such a body is not representative, it is not even effective, it is very expensive. In fact, the national strategy also provides for the existence of the administrative office of this body and the minority to be introduced by a para-state political entity, which is independent of anyone and is not responding to anyone. The proposer of a national strategy all the time argues that its idea and the need for Serbian citizens is to form an independent judiciary, proposing a completely idiotic idea that candidates are elected for the first election for a judicial post for a specified time of three years, in order to then make a decision on a permanent appointment to a judicial office, which is not even confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but only declared by the president of the National Assembly. Such a solution brings newly elected judges to the position of absolute dependence on the high council of the judiciary and the goodwill of its members. It is absolutely unimaginable, in any parliamentary democracy, that judges are elected for a certain time, as if it were trainees. It is also absolutely unimaginable that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not asking about the choice of judges or the financing of the judicial system. Instead of proposing such a national strategy for judicial reform, the Ministry of Justice should or should have submitted a report to the National Assembly on why the material position not only of the judge, but of all the employees in the judiciary is disastrous. In which way and from which budgets can be permanently addressed, the issue of funding of courts and prosecutors, without being dependent on the good will of the executive authority. The ministry of justice should provide accurate data on the level of payment of court fees, if there is a surplus in the budget, and there is, to propose a way of permanent financing and continuous improvement of the conditions of judicial staff. The Ministry of Justice does not deal with the conditions for the work of judges and prosecutors, does not talk about the lack of courts, boredom and insufficient equipment of judicial buildings, and so we have cases that courts in large courts are at the same time and cabinets for the work of judges and that there is no adequate physical and technical protection both the courts and the judges themselves, that judges are being threatened in and outside the courts themselves. The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia instead of instructing the MPs on the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters, should answer the question when and within what time and which means the prosecutions will be removed from the courts' buildings. Today's state of affairs in court buildings is directly contrary to the principle of judicial independence and the independence of the prosecution. There is no answer to the question when the prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia will begin to do its job, to answer for the same. The prosecutors in Serbia are not doing their job. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, they are not party to proceedings before courts, nor is anyone who should conduct and manage a pre-criminal procedure, which is carried out by internal affairs authorities. There is no relevance to the judge's and prosecutor's budget, nor to the prosecutor's responsibility for endlessly long criminal proceedings, which eventually end in the resignation of prosecutors since further prosecution. The justice ministry, instead of proposing a way for more efficient work of courts and resources to ensure the economic independence of courts, proposes to adopt a highly undefined national strategy, which rests entirely on a single assumption, when those who inevitably lose power will win it again, so that they can bring in a new constitution and introduce transparent courts and transparent judges, after which we will all be better off. The national strategy also envisions the adoption of laws on the training of judges and public prosecutors, as well as the establishment of a national training institute in the judiciary. This directly leads to the conclusion that, by introducing so-called the final exams at the National Institute for Training in the Justice, the judges selected are not trained and will be given a full-separation certificate to them again and from no controlled body appointed by the National Institute. This is another way to directly affect the independence of judges in addition to the high council of the judiciary, and given the proposal that judges be elected for the first time for a temporary period of three years, the national strategy suggests that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia allow itself such luxury that the entire judiciary system is removed from the institutions of the system and entrusted it to the mercy and mercy of the transparent knowers of the judiciary. In addition to offering extremely bad solutions, the national strategy is unsettled in the area of the prosecution, trade courts, lawyers and their existence and functioning. Therefore, the best proposal that can be addressed to the Ministry of Justice is the following: the national strategy for judicial reform, Mr. Minister, withdraw and for a change start doing your job. Provide conditions for the work of judges, courts, ensure effective control of the prosecution and prosecutors and report to this assembly, not on the transparency of the judiciary, but on the number of resolved cases, the number of prosecuted and completed criminal proceedings, on the reduced number of complaints of citizens on the work of courts and prosecutors. Please report on the good standards of judges and prosecutors, and then, with full right, ask the MPs to believe that everything will be better if we adopt a national strategy. The national strategy for judicial reform is, in essence, an unsuccessful attempt by NGOs to achieve their goals through them, obtained only by well-known centres and by only known employers. This, God asks you, is the law that we get, and it's in line with everything that is declared by NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26258	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a minister of justice, Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26259	I'd like to thank the previous speaker for teaching me not to teach anyone. Believe me, don't doubt my mind that I know there's no need to teach. Perhaps you could hear that the academys are not outside the court system, and if you don't believe it, we'll take you to France to see what the French Academy looks like. There is no moment here that has been said that the academy will give any assurances, only that it has to be passed in order to master proper training, and in the academics as lecturers will work in the highest number of judges or professors of law schools. It's about the division of power. They said I didn't understand it very well, but, I see, in the end, they say that I am obliged to give certain things to the Assembly for the third branch of government. At least we don't have to argue that if the courts are the third branch of an independent government, the Assembly can ask them to receive a report, as it does through the board. Just so much for understanding or misunderstanding. I'd like to say one thing that's deliberately coming out of my sight. On the one hand, we heard criticism as to why a constitutional appeal guaranteeing the protection of the rights of judges. We have come from the fact that if every citizen in this country has the right to protection, as it seems by today's system, the judges would be the only ones who have no protection. If they get rid of them, they have no one to complain to. That's why it's been introduced, every citizen has the right to conduct a certain procedure and to seek the protection of his right, except, I speak, the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26260	Please don't throw it away. You're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26261	The proposal was therefore put forward to introduce a constitutional appeal. Normally, this will have to be introduced by the Constitution, because today's Constitution does not predict it. Then the Constitutional Court will be able to rule on the right of that man, if he considers himself injured. Thus, it is not true that it would be a body that has no control over its work. That's what I wanted to give, purely professionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26262	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26263	I apologize, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to go out because one of my statements was misread and some citizens of Serbia had consequences and some were material. Once from this assembly pay phone, in one of the previous sessions, speaking of the persecution of General Mladic and other Hague indictees, I said that General Mladic had entered the accordion, entered the geese, entered the folk song, and these idiots misread and broke the accordion of Mr Branimir Djokic. I got in touch with him, and I told him to fix the accordion at my expense. I call on citizens of Serbia who have geese and who have broken their throats to look for Ratko Mladic in them – he is not in geese, he is in a pirate song, people who have material damage because of this let me know, my cost will be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ratko Mladic is in a pirate song, he is in a legend, though, and you will enter the pirate song, just as Brankovic and his brother came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26264	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. That was according to the Rules of Procedure for Misreading. Of course, it's not that accordion, I figured, here you go, Mr. Tomic, so Petar Jojic, so Rajko Baralic. In that order, please. Excuse me, before I give you my word, just to let you know. You're right, a speaker who before that spoke to you, Mr. Minister, that the judicial institutions are also delivering a report to the President of the Assembly, in part, to the Committee on Justice. They do not include all the data requested, but these basic, including efficiency, are at the disposal of each of the Members concerned. Here you go, Mr. Tomic, and thank you very much for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will make an effort to return to the agenda and those points that are on the agenda today. In my subjective opinion and in the opinion of a large number of my fellow lawyers, today is one of the key strategic documents that, let me say, since October 5th has come before us and I must say that it is a great honor to vote in favour of this document. One of the previous colleagues said that today we are discussing the law needlessly, and I would like to correct it, this is something much more and much more important than the law itself, because it implies all the things that we will continue to do in the area of judicial reform. Of course, when we talk about strategy, we can talk about strategy as a single document that can be good, and it doesn't have to be good. However, this strategy follows and contains, in itself, an action plan that is very large, very precise and very good. That's why I think this strategy is a sure success in judicial reform. Let me remind you, in the last monitoring of the Council of Europe, which we care about, and perhaps some other colleagues do not care, it is said that, although some reforms have been carried out in the area of the judiciary, we still have a very big job to do. I will also remind you that we are under constant monitoring by the Council of Europe Commission, which monitors the development and reform of the judiciary in our country, that we have also received positive assessments, that we are well rated as one of the countries in the region that has made one good progress in this area. When we talk about adopting a strategy in judicial reform, we cannot help but look back at the period behind us and all the problems that the judiciary has in general. Of course, we can always hear at professional gatherings and for the assembly speaker that the biggest problem is inefficientness, judicial corruption, not to schedule hearings, that we have problems on one side or on the other, that some criminal charges are hidden, that they are not hiding, etc. I think it's just one side of the medal, and so far, to this strategy, we haven't gone into any other problems that follow all these problems, and one of the key reasons is that we didn't have quality material in the justice system itself, to carry out quality reforms. And that's why someone here mentioned that it's not necessary to form a national institute that stems from a judicial centre, which is now training all those who are somehow involved in the work of the judiciary. I think it's very important that this strategy touches this one part that is related to continuous training, because I claim that those who became judges 20 or 30 years ago are nothing or have worked very little on their education in the further process of their maturity. I say, very little, perhaps, honor of exceptions, some have worked. To go back to what is permeated and to see through this whole strategy, and these are the key principles that follow this national strategy, they are: independence, transparency, accountability and efficiency. These four principles, we actually see in them in the future solving problems that burden our judiciary. What is the objective of this strategy is, what we can say and our goal as a society, to get the rule of law, to get a responsible judicial authority, not just a judicial authority, to achieve a sufficient degree of legal certainty, to get a sufficient degree of protection of human and civil rights, and to restore the confidence of citizens in the judiciary, which has been lost, unfortunately, in the previous period. I'll remind you that in the previous period being a judge in a small place is always either a little below or in the same rank as a teacher, a priest, a doctor, there are, and now it's not like that. We could hear from some previous speakers who are problems and obstacles to this judicial reform. One of the problems is, today, the current constitution and it is an obstacle to the anti-citation of those constitutional changes that will follow. When we mention it, we mention first and foremost in those constitutional categories that need to be introduced, such as the high council of the judiciary that will become a constitutional category, and now it is not. We could hear from some colleagues that we're already invoking ourselves, introducing some higher cassation court that doesn't exist right now. That is true, but a strategy for the future, it is developing and will be achieved in the next period by 2012. If we as a society are not able to bring a modern, prosperous constitution for the future where this reform and this national strategy of judicial reform will be woven, then we are indeed an incompetent society, which is not able to move forward with European peoples and with this society of European peoples that we are following. As for the other categories that the Constitution itself will have to anticipate and which can be debated, such as the independent court budget, we must be very careful and be careful that we need a period of transition that will in one way stabilise and reconcile some relations that are both related to the Ministry of Finance and to the Ministry of Justice and the National Assembly and the Supreme Court, because there is now too much, some actors and I am sure, as so far there have been major problems with the formation of the judiciary budget, that it takes some time for this system to stabilize. Of course, here we should mention one part that is, I think, in the seal, which is that we should pay attention to those specialized courts such as: trade courts, administrative courts and criminal courts and thus relieve this, so to speak, traditional part of the courts. Of course, we also need certain authorities to implement this strategy to implement the strategy. This strategy provides for it to be a committee for implementation of the strategy. I'll just say that this commission will count ten members appointed by the government. One of the important details is that, in addition to all the participants involved in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, we have one representative of the finance ministry. Why is that so important? Because so far in public debates, there has always been one question at public meetings, that there has never been any analysis of how much it costs to pass a certain law, how much it costs to adopt or amend a certain member of the law, and so far we don't have any faasis studies, which would give us clear information as much as it costs. So we can say we're passing new reform laws, but we don't have a price to pay, so the commission will take care of that too. One of the members of the commission will be proposed by the National Assembly and will be a member of the Committee on Justice, where, as well as other bodies that are very important for judicial reform, they will have one direct contact with the National Assembly. Someone will say, yes, now a little more power is being taken to the National Assembly, that authority is being exempted from the National Assembly compared to the judiciary and given to some fictitious authority that is yet to be formed. The body already exists, but in order to gain that key independence, there must be a constitutional category, not a high judicial council that now performs that function. Of course, this commission will be accompanied by certain offices, secretariats, which will meet the administrative capacity. I must tell you that as in other areas and in judicial reform, we have a problem of insufficient administrative capacity. When we talk to partners from Europe, they constantly draw attention to us that we do not have enough educated people who are able to implement reforms, as well as from the area of justice. So I remind you again of that very important part, which is training. So once again, let me go back to the part that is related to the action plan, which is that certain activities under this strategy are related to the action plan, these are: short-term, medium-term and long-term plans. Let's not bother our citizens with those deadlines. They are very precisely defined and there are certain tasks to be achieved within which deadlines. One of the jobs is adoption, which will follow after this debate. The discussion of the independence of the third branch of government would not be complete if we did not talk about the role of the high council of the judiciary, which will take over part of the area that the National Assembly today has, part of it has the Ministry of Justice. Today we could hear that this high counsel of the judiciary, which will number 11 members, will have perhaps a little more authority than it has now. So then we heard the comments how to choose for the first term the judge for three years, and then the high council of the judiciary assumes on itself a permanent choice and assumes on itself progress in the service. In the previous period, we had to find before the Justice Committee a proposal for a certain candidate who, for example, works in a court of five years and you have nothing to decide whether it's a good candidate for a judge or not. So you have to have some criteria that are tangible, which are easily evidenced, which are criteria that this person will work professionally, independently, objectively and will have full moral capacity to perform a judicial function. That's why it's three years old. In some circles there have been discussions whether it should be two, three, four years, etc. The strategy suggests that it be three years. However, what is important in this period? It is very important not to abolish the institute of passing a judicial exam, but another thing is being introduced, which is that you must have a minority certificate from the National Institute, which will give you a better chance in front of other candidates with a better result of being elected to a permanent judicial office. I've already talked about the independent budget, and I think that's the point that will remain for the very end of the strategy. We heard the comments whether it is necessary for certain courts and prosecutors to have relations with the public. We've had very closed courts and very closed prosecutions so far. No one will ban the court secretary, nor the president of the court from making statements, however, the court spokesman or head of the public relations office is, as it is called in this strategy, a person addressed by media representatives to obtain certain information. As with others, and under the law on the availability of information, journalists will also be able to address these persons and receive an adequate answer, of course, to the extent that it is in their power and authority. That way the citizens will have better insight into the work of the courts, but we're not talking about the details of the case here. What the strategy foresees as one of the details that is very important is the creation of a network that will enable information technologies to speed up the process. I must tell you that this is already happening in a number of trade courts, with the help of the UNDP and one American foundation and one agency, which is already starting to produce results in a number of trade courts. I've already said something about the judicial centre, and I think it's one of the elements that is very important, because after this strategy, as far as tomorrow, we're going to discuss the law on continuous training and education of all those involved in the judicial system. Anyone who thinks that because he's become a judge or a judge of a trade court, that God is day and he knows everything, he's wrong, because nobody knows everything. The Supreme Court judges will not be freed to continue to educate and train for the work they are already doing. However, in addition to the network that we have already talked about, it is a very important detail, and it was also a light motif of many who spoke today against this strategy, it is not necessary to rationalise the network of courts. And how it is necessary to rationalise the network of courts, reduce costs, increase efficiency and bring all judges to the extent that the verdict does not differ from place to place, whether it is a bigger or smaller place, but that justice is served, to the extent possible, in the same way for all Serbian citizens. I'm telling you that the quality of the trial in some places in our country is not satisfactory. It's a fact and we have to admit it. Finally, one of the dilemmas that appeared in the professional public, and can be heard today in the Assembly, is the prosecutor's issue and what the CAP predicts, which we will also discuss tomorrow, is the prosecutor's position, which has been more judicial in one period, in the second period was more about executive power. The middle must be what's best for the prosecution, which is to define them as executive and judicial authorities. Of course, my fellow lawyers know how to define it, how the hierarchy is, how the prosecution is set up, etc. In one debate, we had an objection whether and who can give guidance and instructions to the prosecutor, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, when it comes to prosecution, which concerns some international acts. I think these instructions, through international assistance and through the Ministry of Justice, are inevitable, because even now, as funds and instruments of work in the prosecution, these instructions exist. Finally, to mention more authorities -- state-run senior prosecutors, who will also number 11 members, who will also be the constitutional category, which will deal with all that I have already spoken about the high court council, that the authority is in charge of the prosecution's field. And finally, I would like to invite you to welcome the great effort that has been put into the development of this national strategy, in which they have taken part and a large number of experts from the field of justice, professor of the university, not only from Belgrade, but from the whole of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, one small part and the National Assembly, through the Justice Committee, to declare this national strategy of judicial reform, which is undoubtedly one of the main and fundamental ones for the future of the Serbian judiciary, in one Serbia which, with the fulfillment of this strategy, I hope, will be in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26266	You might be right. At this rate, we'll discuss other laws tomorrow. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, then Rajko Baralić, then the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about wasting time and spending people's money. When you look at the Constitution of Serbia, what SRS lawmakers have warned today, that the Constitution is a guarantee of rights and freedom, then we cannot bypass the Constitution, and that the previous issue of all issues is the change of the Constitution. When the Constitution is changed, the idea is possible, but until it is changed and a new constitution is brought, time is wasted, money is spent in vain. When you look at this proposal, you can only see from it empty passwords, empty desires, something that absolutely cannot live right now. What do we do now? When will this regulation be applied? This strategy cannot be qualified to be something new. The justice strategy in the areas of modern Serbia has been built for 200 years by citizens of Serbia. He also built Dusan's code and many other laws in the history of the Serbian people. The Serbian judiciary was not founded yesterday, it is not based on some parameters from Strasbourg, London, Paris, The Hague, etc. Legal norms were made by our citizens, specifically by their own customs, relying on the international i.e. parallel right. According to this strategy, it turns out that we began to find out in Serbia yesterday that we have a judiciary. What are the problems related exclusively to this strategy? This strategy requires that the judiciary be independent. We whine that we had minus the police, minus the judiciary, so when DOS came in, we got plus the judiciary, we got plus the police. To restore citizens' trust. In what? If there wasn't a judiciary in the past, where do we now restore that trust? Which one? If we say we need a strategy, because citizens have lost trust, if they have lost trust, then they have confidence in the judiciary, but back five or six years. It is true that Serbian citizens do not trust the judiciary. That's the problem. It's not a strategy problem, it's a human problem. There's a problem with the justice personnel. On how to choose, on how to resolve, on how to improve, on how to monitor the continued work of judicial authorities. You're talking about a strategy now, a court president, a new way of choosing, and yesterday you're so, i.e. 15 days ago, they voted in favour of Radisa Jovic from Kursumlia, for the president of the court, who had 1,200 aged cases, in a drawer, against Cypriot terrorists. Well, it wasn't anyone else who set up Radisa Jovic, it was the ruling majority and the ruling coalition. How could that happen? Why is one inspection report not carried out by the Ministry and the Supreme Court and the Supervisory Committee, a detailed inspection? What does the Minister of Justice, according to the Rules of Procedure, not ask a report on: how many judges in which court is working on what referendums, how many judges have cases in the case, when the judge first received the case, how many procedural proceedings did he perform as judge in that particular case, when he held a hearing, when the debate was concluded, or the criminal proceedings, how many convictions was confirmed to him, how modified, how abolished? What are we talking about? We can only waste time here and have fun. There's no fun here, and there's no time to waste. Do you need new solutions? Yeah. Which one? Human change. Human change is done in the judiciary. Your cook can't be the President of the Court! I don't want to name her, but the cook. An ordinary cook became the president of the court. In court, you have as much nepotism as you want. That president of the court, his daughter's judge, his son-in-law, in one court, and the other daughter of the law enforcement authority. You see, business is better than anywhere, anywhere. The national strategy tends to make the judicial system independent, transparent, responsible and efficient. In addition, it is clear, however, that a national strategy as it is imagined is going silently from Serbia's new constitution, i.e. by following the Constitution and by following the law implementing the constitution, provide for the resolution of all judges and holders of judicial functions. To then approach not the re-election, but the new general election, which will certainly be open to the resolved personnel. It's now a hidden tour. In doing so, the trial selection of judges is first planned for three years by parliament, and on a proposal, a new body, a high council of the judiciary, after the deadline, would be another election, but this time a permanent appointment to the court office, which would directly carry out the high council of the judiciary. Now pay attention. Under the new legal rules and established criteria, however, the issue of how a high council of the judiciary will be formed in the first place, in particular how its members from the judges with a permanent judicial standing will be elected. functionally, if they have to be chosen and elected. Now what? Who's gonna pick the judges? First of all, who's gonna pick members of the council? Six of those elected by the Supreme Court. Who's going to choose them? How can they now choose themselves or plan to choose from the existing composition the high council of the judiciary? He can't. They simply have to submit, at the same time, to the choice on equal terms. What's going on here? There's actually a battle here for the judiciary. Lately, every game struggles only to put justice under its cap and control. To impose his ideology. This strategy that needs to be considered today, will it be withdrawn? I think the minister would have the smartest and wisest solution to pull this out of the process, because they haven't yet won political terms or other conditions so that we can adopt this strategy today or have it. There's nothing from her! What do we have from adopting this strategy? There's nothing! The question now arises, how is it now that, until the formation of this Council and the Commission of the Council, on page 7, 1st item: 'Until the decision to set up a Commission for the Implementation of the Strategy and the formal appointment of its members, the competence and function of the Commission for the Implementation of the Strategy will be implemented by the existing Commission for the Reform of Justice'. Which commission? Based on what regulations? Has the Constitution changed that the commission could work and that this project could be put into legal procedure? He can't! It cannot take over the Commission for the Reform of the Justice which is now adopted, that it takes over even this role beyond the Constitution. So that's not a speech, nor should I allow it. There's one question, we'll get to the Code of Criminal Procedure, you see, lawyers are being put aside. Why isn't there a representative of the attorney general of these 11 members of the High Council for the Judiciary? Why?- I'm sorry. You know what, we're not even allowed to defend ourselves, we're on our way to endangering basic human rights and freedoms according to what you're proposing in the Code of Criminal Procedure. You're preventing, gentlemen, the defense of the suspects and the defendants, which will not be easy to revive, which will come upon a great condemnation. It will not be possible in practice to apply, because we have ratified the European Convention on Fundamental Freedoms and Rights and have taken the obligation to comply with the provisions of this Convention. Our political right is internationalized, we are exposed to international control. We cannot now, here, independently prescribe some legal rules that differ from world and European countries, and from America and England and its kingdom, and from France and Germany and from Belgium and from the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and not to count. You will face it, gentlemen, the day after tomorrow, when we tell you what you're doing when you're proposing an investigation and an investigation and how contrary to the provisions of international law you've overlooked in our country. It won't work, because that puts human rights and limited rights of defence at risk. Now let me draw your attention, see how much organ you're predicting here. The High Council of the Judiciary is foreseen. By yesterday was the High Council of Justice. It's not a neck, it's a neck! Furthermore, as predicted, the commission, committees, the National Office, the Secretariat, this is like the UN tribunal. Take the UN tribunal's statutes and you'll see there are many specifics that match, from a formal and language point of view, with The Hague statute. So this coster is going to be big. I wouldn't take the time, and the MPs of the SRS pointed to very important facts regarding this reform. The prosecution, when it comes to it, is now marginalized in this strategy. However, what we are interested in, as radicals, is to draw attention to the citizens that they will have a large cost, because the Serbian government, as a pronoun, is giving them a huge cost of taxpayers. Now, Serbian radicals are against it, because it's unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26268	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. So, MP Rajko Baralić, then Verica Radeta, then Isapnović Istvan. Nine minutes, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jojic, you forgot your glasses holster, that's very important, you can scratch the lenses so you don't see clearly, and that's not good. You said it wasn't the same neck and neck or that it was the same. I didn't understand. I've never seen a yoke on my neck, and it's on my neck. Mr. President, getting ready for this session, I came to the board meeting a few days ago and there I found that someone had introduced new rules on the functioning of the assembly committees, so I'm informing you that someone in your name is violating the Rules of Procedure, also, against your will, and I know that you want it fiercely, does not pass a law on the National Assembly, so it humiliates the MPs. I'll explain in detail, if you like, but I'll inform you that I will not tolerate the will of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! If I want to be a clerk, I'll get a job at the National Assembly, if I'm any good to you and you want me to. I am the elected MP, and I will not tolerate what is happening on the assembly committees. So, what is written in the Rules of Procedure must be conducted and I am not obliged to know whether your committee and your majority will have a quorum so that I can go on a journey, 500 kilometers here and there, so please, in this regard, it is this committee, that you invite your officials to drink coffee, explain to them that they are not the source of rights, but is the source of the law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that whoever violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be with you to have business. If you're the real president, and I know you are, and we're going to talk about it and write what we think, because you can't be punished by someone who wants to work, you need to be punished by someone who didn't come to work. Everyone who needs to understand what I'm trying to say here will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26270	Thank you. We'll do that. Thank you for letting me know. Don't waste any time at your disposal, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26271	Let all things perish, but justice be done; nothing is disputed. Three things I'd like to say briefly. Here the strategy is given the importance of future court equipment, so I want to say because you wouldn't understand the ones I represent here if I didn't do it. I don't know what all the courts in Serbia are like, what equipment are technical, software, personnel, etc. It is possible that people in Chačka and Moravika County are lucky that these courts are like in American films, that their courtrooms with interior in Dubrovnik, that they have absolute fill-up in every way, from professional associates to judges, performers and others, that they have a restaurant better and cheaper than the congregation here, that they have a better driving park than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that's not hard at all. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, practically, has no fleet. So, I just want to tell my colleagues that the former state had no idea of courts as a front, but in every respect, it has invested that they are both spatially and technically and technically capable of being able to do what is their constitutional and legal obligation. So if that applies to someone else, I don't mind, on the contrary, I want these conditions to be as equal as they are in Chačka. I must say, though, when it comes to the strategy that the presidents of the Municipal and District Court in Cacca have been cleared, even though they just handed over these courts to the new authorities in 2001. So I'm asking you to check it out. The next question concerns what he was talking about, in one part, dear counterpart Jojic. I agree with that, I must say. For the hundredth time I have spoken here, in this country someone has been afraid of the MPs and the National Assembly, and every day something that was once the original jurisdiction of the National Assembly, or of the MPs, is given into the hands of someone else, and the other one I do not know whose original legitimacy there is, whom it represents, whom it elects, and to whom it accounts. The only original democratic legitimacy has national MPs and the National Assembly, all other legitimate acts being carried out. Well, only the people would say that Vlachs don't remember, different advices this or that, whatever we or you call them, always work in the interest of this or those authorities, more or less. When Members of Parliament do so and when the National Assembly does so publicly, citizens can know exactly who they are for, who they propose, who they are, who they are and why they challenge, whether it's a dispute enough argument for someone not to be elected, and therefore, we've now practically devised the function of the Justice Committee in this sense and that's the part that I don't like in the strategy. So we think the strategy is necessary, but I'm contesting this part in the way that I'm doing right now in front of you and I hope you understand that. Why does it still need a strategy? I have two letters here. It is one since 17 June 2003, and one since 27 June 2001, both signed by the same chairman of the Democratic Party Committee, I will not mention his name, because the man is no longer alive and has been directed, imagine miracles, otherwise they have numbers, not to quote it here, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, Minister, Mr Vladan Batic himself. Imagine how intimate they are, they are personal correspondence. Now they say why one of the judges can't be chosen, so among other things they say why someone can't, but then they say why someone can. In a year and a half, it is said for the judge, he has launched and accused practically all the Socialists in our district, 120020771-25/20, an act informing the DS Municipal Committee personally that someone should or should not be elected. I remind you, since many here have said it was one way or another, I have a second letter here, it is from 2003, which is also personally delivered to Vladna Batic and Sonja Brkic. To remind you, it is a lady who has become the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia from the judge of the municipal court, where it is also said that someone must or should not be elected and what they think about it. Dear ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is a necessary strategy, and what I have here, you can check, was done in the form of the most light democratic assets of Doss's government. It's the one power that had very good ministers in its system, some here I've listed, some others I haven't, you know! It is the authority that has stolen the congregation's mandates, which has banned the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia! It is the authority that filed 16,000 criminal charges against former authorities in Serbia! And that is why a strategy is needed, and that is why it is necessary to strengthen the position of those who propose and elect judges and prosecutors. I also remind you that the current DS officials were elected here in 29 cases, so the secretaries or presidents of the municipal committees of the Democratic Party in 2001, and that they were lawyers or were lawyers in some of the companies. I am sorry that my DS colleagues are obstructing and boycotting the work of the Republic of Serbia Parliament and I am sorry that they are not in a position to hear this personally. They were the worst government to imagine. In this letter, even they write, this is interesting for DSS colleagues, they write it in 2001 – I warn you that they found a connection with a lawyer, I will not say the name, which is a member of the DSS municipal board and through it are trying to make an impact, and you know what that means. That was your coalition, honest coalition in 2001, good luck to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26272	The word has the National MP Vjerica Radeta, then Išpanović Istvan, and Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26273	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national justice reform strategy, as it is called, when I looked at it and when I read what it says here, I thought someone made a joke with the MPs, but I see this is serious and it's worrying. It is truly amazing that the minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic, is sorry that he is not here to hear me, that he is a representative of the government for such an unconstitutional paper. I really can't call this any other way. Here's the minister. Minister, I have just been publicly shocked that you, whom I believed to be a serious man and a good lawyer, have accepted that you represent us here on behalf of the Government this national strategy. I don't really know what you pulled this from, from which you draw the right, where your constitutional basis is, based on whose constitution you propose this to us, truly incredible, and especially when you present yourself as a representative of the party of legalists. If this is legalism, then I'm really wondering what anarchy looks like. We are already used to members of your government, almost your colleague, Velja Ilic, when he spoke, tried, in fact, to defend that acquisition of Sarančić's, those colorful wagons, and then he said that the Public Procurement Act was so bad that it was, like, insane to apply it. You say the same thing about the Constitution. I wasn't surprised by Velya, but I certainly am. When you spoke to the National Assembly, you said, among other things, that 'the need for reform' was, that is, in the proposal for a decision, 'caused by a sharp conflict of overcome political and legal arrangement based on the 1990 Constitution with new social relations that rest on very different principles, principles and values'. Mr Stojkovic, almost six years since you replaced those who brought in the Constitution, or people have brought in the Constitution, but you call it the "Milosevic" Constitution of 1990, and you have been acting and acting according to your position for all six years, unconstitutionally, counter-constitutionally, because you think that everything that is not in line with some of your visions is unconstitutional. We, Mr. Minister, have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you, as a lawyer, would have to know that this is an act that must be respected by all citizens, especially by the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is amazing that as you introduce a newspaper here, you tell us that according to your strategy, the judicial authority is an independent branch, a special branch of government, that courts are independent, prosecutors are independent, courts are independent, and here, look at us starting with Article 9 of the only and existing Constitution – Article 9 of Section 4 says: 'The court authority belongs to the courts'. So there is legislative, executive and judicial authority. That's what's in this Constitution. You've presented it to us here today as some newspaper, as if we should meet for the first time now and admire the government of Vojislav Kostunica for remembering to write it for us. Furthermore, in Articles 95 to 106. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is about courts and public prosecutors. All the way up to the point and to the details of how much it takes to stand in the constitution, it stands in this Constitution, so it's really surprising that you have disobeyed 13 members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 13 members of the Constitution you have disobeyed, that is, you have violated so many members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is amazing! The collapse of the constitutional order is that you came to power by burning down the assembly and also by some undemocratic means, but the collapse of the Constitution is indeed unacceptable and therefore should even be answered! You said here, Minister, this strategy provides the public. We already have enough public, or public knowledge of everything that happens in courts, even too much, and without this strategy, we have steps of various invited and uninvited commentators, is a public colleague if a spokesman comes out, and the minister is talking about a spokesman here as if he's revealing America. The spokesmans and now there's everything they come out and say is illegal and unconstitutional. Since we have court portfolios, first-degree convictions have been publicly commented since then, procedures have been commented at all stages. You, as a lawyer, know that this is not the way to do it, and you are now still through this strategy of Bruno Vekaric and that Maja Kovacevic and that Tomic, and I don't know who you want to confirm through this strategy as some great revelation in our judiciary. You further say, through this strategy you are now predicting the site and then all citizens will be able to see, both workers and judges and court workers, and everyone will be able to find out through the website, among other things, when a verdict is reached. I ask you, Minister, where interested citizens and the public of Serbia will see why, for example, the Ovcara verdict was not reached six months after the statement. Where will that be read? Sam Nazaro isn't here and there's no one to dictate it, but it won't be written on your website, or on the court site. And that's true, Mr. Minister, and you know it's true. You said that this public, these spokesmans and websites, would reduce the possibility of corruption in the judiciary. This is really genius. It's like the one that advertises that driver-coker and says the cabbage is genius, and so is this strategy of yours. Mr. Minister, since you, or since the DOS took over, have since begun to arrest your judges. All the judges arrested and prosecuted are not from what you say is the former regime. Goran Kljajevic is your work, in 1986 I don't know when he was born, I don't ask when he was born and when he became a judge, but how he became President of the Court – as President of the Crisis Staff. And you kept him until this day. I don't mean you personally, but as a member of the High Council of Justice and Labus, of course, of course, Labus. Next, Minister, you said you'd go through this strategy, that the judge's assistants would be paid to reach a level that would be a little less different from the judges' pay. Now I ask you, what has prevented you and who has prevented you from doing so so so far. And without this strategy, you could have done it. It's not about being after the strategy, it's about announcing a strike in the judiciary, so now you tell the citizens, or the employees of the judiciary that you're going to raise their salaries, so they don't go on this strike. I don't know if he'll believe you. For God's sake? You say the strategy introduces constitutional categories. I really don't know what was unconstitutional until now, except, of course, here, now, this strategy of yours. So far, the courts and prosecutors have worked and functioned in accordance with the Constitution, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, and the one you are calling on is really not who, in Serbia, is not adopted, and you are holding it there just before you. Whose constitution it is, I really don't know. Solanin, huh? Ours isn't safe. You've already had non-constitutional categories, of course, the High Council of Justice, which will now be some high court council, so you have, I can't help but mention the unconstitutional, national office, Boris Tadic and his largest tycoon, Gilas. They are foreseen in the budget for this unconstitutional, national money office, and you did not accept that the budget should be passed on to the judiciary and taken out of this budget. And now here you announce that after this strategy, it will be possible. I really don't understand what bothered you to do, and when all of us in the SRS told you, when we voted on the budget, to bring in a special judicial budget, then you turned your head, or Dinkic, you weren't there, that it was impossible. How will it be possible after this strategy and who this and how it commits, I really don't understand. I think this is another one of the tricks, since you're starting to get sick, you're slowly preparing for the election and you're starting a campaign out of here through papers like this, that don't mean anything to anyone. You tell the ministers that for a year and a half you worked on this strategy and then you went to get your opinion, as you said yourself, in Brussels, Strasbourg, Germany, at the Venice Commission. You could have done without all of them what you did, the way you did. You said, too, that after this strategy, and I keep repeating, Minister, that I don't understand what it means to you before the strategy and after the strategy, because there are laws and there are laws, and the strategy is a list of people's wishes, obviously someone's wishes, as you said, from Brussels, Strasbourg, Germany, I don't know from where, and that wish list is not a legal basis, Minister, I guess you know that this strategy, or any strategy, can't be a legal basis, you say, after the strategy, the prosecution will be a kind of state body, part of the executive authority. How will that part of the executive government, and tomorrow we will talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, how part of the executive authority, or the prosecution as part of the executive government, will conduct the investigation process. Where's the independence? Where's the independence? Where are the three branches of government, Minister? You've got something really messed up. There have been several objections here. First of all, Minister, you haven't clearly explained that ad we're seeing, I don't know what to do with the wings, and then after this Justice Department commercial, they say it's judicially independent, transparent, responsible and effective. I don't know, Minister, which is why you've had the need to have something that's common knowledge and what in every legal state has to be understood, why you need to advertise it. Let this be the President of the Assembly's question: how much did the ministry pay for that ad, so let's see how much they could have increased the salaries to the dactylographs in the courts in the name of that ad. Next, someone here was talking about reducing the number of courts you're predicting, and then you said, Minister, that it's important for you to give citizens an effective trial. It is indisputable, and I ask you, how will you ensure an effective trial if you foresee, in the context of the reform of the transfer of the law enforcement authority to the criminal courts, that the municipal authority of the infringements, as a future court in Doljevac, be attached to the criminal court in Merošina. You're here trying to protect Serbia's budget, and you don't care about the citizens. You don't care that Meroshina from Doljevac is 35 kilometers in one direction, of course. You're talking about how it's up there on someone, the West, how the courts are far away I don't know how many miles away, but you're talking about people living in high-standard countries. Do you know that there's a village in Meroshina that can't be reached every day by that citizen of ours who lives in a village, because he doesn't have a bus ride every day, and you tell him, "Merosina is too close to you, go to Doljevac 35 kilometers away." So, Minister, it would be good if a little more consideration were taken about the citizens of this country of Serbia. Someone also asked here why the minister is so eager for Ratko Mladic, but the fellow who asked is not in progress, because I know Minister Stojkovic is not in the process of the chase. It is now being done on a scientific basis, now taken over by your colleague, Minister Aleksandar Popovic, now he is making statements on the capture and arrest of Ratko Mladic. I guess that Vukkovic, who, in his own time, remembers, he said he would arrest pigeon writers, if they accidentally carried letters and messages to Ratko Mladic, and now they'd have to arrest the pigeons and bees, because you're looking for Mladić in bees too. You did not, Minister, answer Tomislav Nikolic's question, on the basis of which the "special" court issued a search warrant for the apartment and the detention of SRS member Branimir Djokic. Is Branimir Djokic, because he lives in the neighborhood, near Ratko Mladic's house, and he's a war criminal, so he needs a "special" court to bring in a warrant for his arrest and arrest. I still have to tell you that I am very sorry that I do not live near the house of Ratko Mladic, I would be happy to have coffee with Bosa Mladic and Daliborka Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26274	We're going to solve this question, we're not going to solve this request, but we're going to solve this question, Mrs. Radeta, please, we're going to solve the parliamentary issue; only the first part is the parliamentary question, and the second part is rhetorical, so there's no confusion. So how much does it cost to make, prepare, broadcast and campaign the video? This rest can be obtained. So, a data that is not adequate, we understand each other, Mrs. Radeta and I. The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26275	I've been asked certain questions here, really legal, but I'm not going to engage in politics, because it's not my job, it's going to be debated by Members of Parliament. I'll explain some things. You asked me where the prosecution is, as the third branch of government, and I will draw your attention that Europe, almost 200 years old, has clearly discussed the division of power and when there is legislative, executive and judicial. If you're running for office, you'll need some new legal theory to form and introduce the fourth branch of the wave. For now she doesn't exist, and I answer to you, because you asked me. I'm telling you now, the prosecution is part of the executive government, entrusted with prosecution, and since you brought the Constitution, and it says, I suggest we look, you'll see, that the courts are independent, and the prosecutors are independent authorities. So, functionally independent, but not as an independent body, and that's what our Constitution has solved, this one from 1990. You said I was breaking it. The strategy foresees something else, it speaks for what should be done in the future. So, not to touch the Constitution or to change it, but to suggest what it takes to remove those shortcomings in the judiciary. Among other things, he proposes to change some things in this existing constitution. If he's going to change, it's up to you again. This assembly should make a decision and implement, to approach the new constitution. Therefore, we have not broken the Constitution for a moment. I agree with you that it would be a serious crime, which I absolutely agree with. So, the strategy offers solutions for the future, which should address the shortcomings that we have seen so far. For these reasons, I don't think I needed to be transferred to violate the Constitution and possibly commit a serious crime and would immediately agree with you that whoever violates the Constitution is committing a serious crime. I say, the strategy itself proposes what needs to be done in the future and, among other things, to change the Constitution, in this part that applies – is not a list of good wishes. The first time you've figured out what's wrong and what needs to be done, and if it's going to be done, it's going to depend on the Assembly, but we're going to keep insisting on it, a team before one of the things that's in the strategy is already governed by the laws. We can't do other things without changing the Constitution. If a new body is envisaged, if given certain powers, it must be introduced into the Constitution to be a constitutional principle, but if the Constitution changes in that part. The rest we'll do and solve, but we can't do that part without changing the Constitution. I am convinced that a new constitution will be brought. If we're building a neat house, we need a neat foundation. Some things have been overcome, and I'm not saying in that sense whether the Constitution is bad, this previous one, or whether it's good, simply, time has run over some things. Both the best and the strongest constitutions have been changed. You know well that the American Constitution has been standing for 200 years, but with some 56 amendments today, it's a new constitution. So, as time trampled on certain norms, normally everything had to change, because it had to fit some social life and in that sense, preamble didn't, but the text did, so the whole constitution is new today. One is preamble, and the wording of the constitution is what makes you pass all the laws afterwards. So, I don't think there's any reason for me to be transferred to break the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26276	It was all rhetorical, I hope, and otherwise, you are constantly heard in the Assembly, you are not always present, Mr Stojkovic, with great suspicions that in Serbia we are present with the fact that there is a legislative, executive, judicial and somewhere advisory authority, and that is why we are occasionally excited and in discussions we use different examples, but certainly did not want anyone to accuse you of the work, you are certainly right. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26277	First of all, I would like to complete my parliamentary question, ask in response, and answer, did the Ministry take this minute through Dragan Gilas or directly, and compare prices, since he has ten times as expensive, and therefore he is Tadic's largest tycoon. As for this strategy, Minister, and what I was saying and what you were saying, you are obviously aware that the Constitution is the Supreme Law and you said it yourself earlier, but I don't know why we're dealing with today this national strategy that doesn't comply with the Constitution, our existing only constitution, and you've tried before, you haven't acted like that, but you seem to have accepted the qualities of your fellow government fellow Members, that you are giving lectures to the MPs. You say it's not politics, but now I'm going to politically explain it to you, but it can't be done, Minister. So this strategy is completely unconstitutional. What you see and see, bring the constitution, President of the Assembly, you who ring behind my back, you are the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So, after a year and a half, call the Committee to see if they 'yellow', Tadics, have come to terms with the fate of making a new constitution, because after the new constitution, there are new elections, then elections for the President of the Republic, for parliament, so you and him are in the same trouble, and that's why you co-operate neatly on the adoption of the constitution. If you care so much about the new constitution, we have shown our will in time and said – well, we will participate in the work of the Committee, although we have first said that it is not necessary to adopt a new constitution, that amendments can be arranged by the existing Constitution, but we have accepted your idea that it is going into the making of a new constitution. What happened to that? You would prefer not to make a constitution or elections for the next ten years. It's nice for you, you don't care what it's like for Serbian citizens. We care a lot about how it is for the citizens of Serbia, and that's why we think it's a waste of time, that instead of talking about laws, if we're talking about strategies, we're talking about a strategy about how this people start living better, how people deal with poverty, with hunger, with job layoffs, we're dealing with something that's good, even legal and constitutional, perfectly regulated. The question you're proposing to us, I don't know if it's going to be at this session, for the prosecutor of some director of the National Office in that municipality, that's the problem. The problem is personnel solutions, the problem is party, political arrangements, negotiations, conditions. Minister, how can you show that you don't know when you're a member of the High Council of Justice? How can you not know? It says. I didn't make it up, but you wrote it in your proposal – prosecutor, director of the National Office. We're going to have one of those "yellows", director of the National Office, to be a prosecutor. If he is the Director of the People's Office, then he is openly and clearly declared a member of that party. Who else can be the director of the National Office, but one of the "yellows"? Then we're talking about a strategy. Minister, this is from that people's village burning and your grandmother's combing.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26278	The word is from the National MP Išpanović Istvan and Milan Stevović from Petar Cvetkovic. I am capable and will certainly continue to act in accordance with the decision made on the Constitutional Affairs Board. Here you go, Mr. Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26279	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I would still like to discuss the strategy, not political bickering. In addition, I will refer to some discussions during my presentation. Namely, here were the various problems with the election of judges and prosecutors, and since I am a little older and in the third term I am a member of the Justice Committee, I also know how the judges were elected before 2000. There's been a lot of talk here about how it was elected from 2000 to 2004, so since 2004. I think it's very important that we bring this document. The justice strategy is the direction in which the state should strive in the area, I think it is very important, provided that we will soon bring a new constitution, which will regulate the position of courts and prosecutors in a different way. I'm going to have a slightly different view on some issues. In my best interest, I want to say something about what I think some institutes are a little different from what this strategy is all about. This was about the independence of the courts, or the judge. If I understand the minister correctly, he believes that judges are independent in the application of the law, and as for the independence of the judicial system, the courts themselves, that there should be certain ingenuity between the ministries and the National Assembly. I was a judge in the one-party system, and I've been a MP for a long time, so I know how the judges and prosecutors were elected. It is a sad fact that the independence of judges and courts was greater in this one-party system than after that. I don't know who did all of you both before and after 1990. When I was a judge, I never once had an intervention to solve a case one way or the other. I know it's not like that now. True, I'm not even a lawyer anymore, but mostly I'm following and I know what it's like. Personally, I believe that courts must be independent not only of the executive authority, but also of the legislative authority. That's not the case today, it's not according to our Constitution either, it's not predicted by this strategy to be so. I am very sorry that some footnotes have not been given under this strategy. For example, there were words about how it was possible for judges to be elected outside parliament. Well, in most European countries, parliament has nothing to do with the choice of judges. It is a pity that it is not mentioned here, we have the high advice of the judiciary, that someone wrote there – this is how judges are chosen in this and this European country, and in another way in that country. Then there would be no discussion like this if it had nothing to do with democracy for judges to be elected outside parliament, for judges to be elected for a certain time. It's common practice for beginners to choose for a certain time, and only when it's seen that he's capable of being a judge and he's going to be a good judge, then he's chosen indefinitely. It's a common practice. There's some debaters here doing research as far as possible. As for the high council of the judiciary, I welcome that such a body exists. The only problem, from my point of view, is the very composition of this council and the way to vote. I am not sure that in the most important cases one qualified majority in the vote is required and more votes than the council has members from the judiciary. It's a problem for me, and I suggest you think about it when it's on the agenda for the change. It is very important to introduce the possibility of complaining about the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary. If that existed then they would not be members of the judge's society expelled from courts between 1999 and 2000. I don't know exactly 1999. I wish they hadn't come back. Most of them are back. This is very important for judges to be protected because, however, there is the possibility of being abused and in this way they have the possibility of a constitutional appeal in the Serbian Constitutional Court. As far as the independent budget system is concerned, I think it's necessary to introduce it as soon as possible. I didn't quite understand from this material why it should wait until 2011 to introduce an independent budget for courts. I think it's possible much sooner. Of course, the budget will continue to be adopted by the National Assembly, and I don't know when these people who are sitting at the Justice Department are proposing a budget for the judiciary, so why can't these same people sit in that office on the high council of the judiciary and propose such a budget and live? There must also be rules on the independent court budget and the independent budget of this National Assembly as soon as possible. It is constantly delayed and there is no real reason for such a delay. In this material, it is said that the political influence of the judiciary is too high. I fully agree with that, but if it remains this way of choosing judges, that judges are elected in the National Assembly, and in particular that the presidents of the courts are elected exclusively in the National Assembly, in which case my experience is still saying there will be a high degree of influence of justice policy. I don't know why you don't move that decision out of the assembly, because it's the only way. If anyone knows another way to avoid the influence of politics, I agree, but then let's discuss it. I don't know any other way to exclude politics from the judiciary, but only to have judges elected outside parliament. I say, I don't see any other way, and I have some experience in it. As for that first election of judges, I think it's a little short-lived for three years. I think it should take at least four or five years for the so-called temporary election or temporary internship to last, and in that period, at least twice, each judge should be evaluated in writing, to keep track of it. It means that judges who directly decide on the cases of a judge who is in that temporary election, to write a detailed report about him, to keep a trace of it. How do we choose judges now? You've got the material these days. It says there when he was born, when he graduated from college, he sometimes wrote an average grade, but we don't know how he works. Some of them have been working for a long time, we've been choosing them as district court judges, so there's been some reports about the last three years, and that's why we're choosing. We have no idea how he's judging. Therefore, it is necessary before the judge is in a permanent relationship, that he be chosen permanently, to be repeatedly evaluated and written by those judges who solve these cases. Therefore, they have insight into the way they work. I told you about the presidents, it's not good to have them elected in parliament. If you want an example, and that's repeatedly listed here. Kljajevic is a great example of how the presidents of politics are appointed, affecting the work of the judiciary. It doesn't matter who picked him. Also, it says here effective management of objects. He says judges spend a lot of time dealing with administrative issues. I'm sorry, I was a judge. I didn't administer for more than 15 minutes a day. I don't know what it's all about and I don't get it, and maybe it's different now. I was a judge a long time ago. If a boring order or some solution is procedural when the judge dictates, that's all the judge does or enters his norm and I don't know what else should be administered by the judge. I'm telling you it doesn't take more than 15 minutes, and that's not much. That's why judges don't have time to solve cases. I think it's the biggest problem and ignorance, if it's not a case resolution, not a lot of administration by the judges. I suggest that this strategy be accepted. It is certainly important that we have some vision of what kind of justice we want in Serbia, and I suggest voting for this strategy. G17 plus will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26280	The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, then Cvetkovic, and Sreto Peric; 34 minutes for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of judicial reform is really important, on the agenda of the National Assembly. We should really go in one right direction, which is that we do one judicial reform and no one forbids it, no one has ever banned it from us before. This proposed strategy today is only one ordinary camouflage for what has not been done so far or at least has been partially done. I will try in several concise sentences to say why the MPs of the SRS disagree with such a concept of the strategy, first of all, about what we have debated a lot today, and this is one problematic constitutionality of this proposal, and on the other hand, some facts are listed in this strategy that we absolutely cannot agree on. Here, first, an overly complex and wide system of courts. If we take that from one side, and on the other hand, we don't know how this complex and wide system is going to narrow down. Absolutely not. Moreover, we also introduce some new courts, introduce some other organizations and come up with a much more complex system of justice. If we take the fact, he says, there are unclear standards of choice, impeachment, results and progress of judges. We often choose the holders of judicial functions here, we choose the presidents of the courts, the public prosecutors, the deputy public prosecutors, but we are constantly explained that these are good criteria, that the procedure is good, and that the results of the work of these judges have been absolutely verified and that is why all MPs of this assembly voted. What exactly is it? Is it true what is said when the day - to - day point is placed on the consideration of this congregation or is exactly what is found as the starting point of this strategy? Also, I can't accept the finding that an inadequate program is in law school. This is what puts MPs to vote. Are we, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at all, and competent to say that in one law school or university or at any law school, an inadequate programme? Please, gentlemen, we didn't. There is someone far more important and someone far more competent than we are here who are individuals to say about this, and in particular I cannot agree that those who are preparing for judicial functions are like some leaders, which is what we were talking about today, in the system of justice, or in legal action. There are more important legal acts, guidelines at law school, and international law, and economic law, and maritime law, etc. There's no leadership. Either you're a lawyer or you're not a lawyer. Either you know how to apply it or you don't know it. It's the only criterion, and we can't get those who deal with judicial functions out of some general system of education at law schools. Then, I can't agree with the finding that poorly equipped and maintained facilities of the judiciary, because believe me, as a lawyer and as a former judge, I went to courts where the marble is, where the red carpets, where all the type-tops were set up, where the gelenders were shiny, gold, gold, gold, gold, I don't know what, but I have to tell you I was also in court where I stood outside the front door and I couldn't get in until the man knocked on my window and said, "cold, here's the handle, somebody took the doorknob from our door." And that's the kind of court I've been to. So, if this is one general state, one starting basis for building a strategy, we have to say there are well equipped courts, medium, but there are also very poorly equipped courts, so we're going to put the accent to improve the equipment of these courts. If you think about the technical equipment of courts – the introduction of Internet systems, computers, etc., it is quite commendable and it is a new era that brings improvement and justice and these judicial functions. What I would like to specifically specify, which is the key principles of this strategy, as stated here, that the judicial system is independent, that it is transparent, that it is responsible and efficient. It seems to me that this independence of the judge is also referred to by every constitution, until now, and the current constitution, and all of our laws, and that is not so widely known and notronous fact of the independence of the courts, I have the impression that this strategy would have to put the principle that the judicial system must be transparent. All this other people know. The Constitution knows, knows the law and knows that courts should be held accountable and have to be effective, but only so far have we not had that command, and whose order we must judge, and we will probably find out one day, that the court is transparent. And speaking of these basic principles, I must say that I do not agree that in the context of transparency in the first place there should be an open process of choice, promotion, accountability and recalling of the holders of judicial functions. This, I think, should rather stand as a point in the system of independence of judges. But below, it is said that it should be appropriate to access information from court records and procedures, and below that improved public relations and public participation in a system of justice and judicial functions. So an unreal image is being created. Here, if we need to say transparency and proper access to information, we need to say that's it. If we're to say it's a copy of the court records, well, that's the transparency of the court. And one more thing, I believe that with this second category of transparency, our judicial system will have major problems. We'll make it from judges who will have to hold, probably, individual press conferences, that they'll be attacked by journalists and that they'll have to call press conferences to justify themselves, that they won't be able to take care of cases and that they won't be able to judge as they're supposed to be. I find this part very problematic. When we talk about the frameworks of judicial reform, therefore, independence, transparency, accountability, efficiency, I would add one new category, which is professionalism. It is very important that this strategy speaks of a very large process and invest in the formation of a judge. And now if you don't have the professionalism and statement of taking over that professionalism, the question is, how long will this staff we've trained, who's been through everything, and the institute that will be established and passed all the exams, work in the judiciary. I think it's up to judicial reform. There must be a certain statement that will be made by the holder of the judicial office – that it is my profession and I accept that as long as there are legal conditions I perform that judicial duty. Otherwise, as soon as we grow, under the quote of one good judge, he will see that in another place he can earn much better, and he will put his professionalism on another point and on another. I also have to mention a few things about these institutions that are otherwise mentioned, the high council of the judiciary and the state's major prosecutors, especially because when we talk about the application of this strategy, it is said: there is a committee for the implementation of a 10-member strategy, so one represents a representative of the ministry, it is appointed by the minister, all right, the other, it is a representative of the Justice Committee. I see no reason why a representative of the Justice Committee will be on the Committee for the Implementation of the Strategy. It is known what the Assembly is, that it is a legislative body, and it is known that this body, the commission, is appointed by the Government as an executive body. Which is why, as an executive body, the government is dragging someone from the legislative authority into this system of commissions to implement a strategy that will decide. What's the committee supposed to do? The Committee should perhaps receive a report from the Commission on the implementation of the strategy and that the Committee on the Justice of this Assembly should be made aware of the position of the Committee for the Implementation of the Strategy. That might be understandable, this other one is absolutely not understandable. I have to ask the question: if the representatives of the highest judicial institutions and the representatives of the prosecution enter this committee, then why the representative of the judge and the prosecutor's society, is it some kind of parallel, is it some kind of control body, what is it? There's no reason for this to be introduced into this system of strategies. There'd be plenty more to talk about this strategy. I want to cut short, to give only one assessment that the introduction of a high council of the judiciary and the state council of the prosecution is in fact a transfer of hot potatoes from the Ministry to these institutions. So the ministry slowly rejects everything that is very problematic, introduces new institutions to in some way be protected and covered with all of this. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26282	Thank you. There's plenty of time. It's okay. National MP Petar Cvetkovic has a word, so Sreto Peric, and Donka Banovic. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26283	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard different views on the proposal for a national justice reform strategy. In doing so, I would note, if you allow the concept itself, or the name of the strategy, to produce certain dilemmas among some MPs. The strategy is not the law, the strategy if it were the law would be called the law, but the strategy is something that means the intention to do, the intention to arrange the judiciary, not just the judiciary. I remind you, the judiciary is a broader expression to the judiciary and the judiciary enters, among other things, lawyers and their organization, and everything else, and prosecutors etc. This means that the strategy cannot be considered a single legal proposal, so it cannot be read from word to word, from concept to concept, and to make clear whether one term of language, legal or other term has been used. The strategy, in its very mind, is a more letter of intent, that is, that is why we are considering it here in the Assembly, about what will be sought by the Government, the Ministry and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, all that is proposed, and what we have today in an adequate manner and completely comprehensively heard from Minister Stojkovic, is exactly what the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, as well as other state bodies, is, to remind, the improvement of the situation in the judiciary, i.e. the improvement of the situation in the judiciary. It is indisputable, and it is pointed out by almost all speakers, that the situation in the judiciary, i.e. in the judiciary, is not ideal, even most colleagues estimate that the situation is bad and there is no dilemma. This is not the finding of any MP, nor is it a finding that is not unknown to the citizens, nor to the MPs and public opinion. What is positive, from the Ministry, the Government and us who are considering this strategy, is that the problems have been identified, that the situation has been considered and that solutions have been offered. Many of these solutions are already envisaged by the strategy, I would say, in exploitation. This has been introduced through certain laws, implemented in this legal system, it is widely applied, and some of it will just be applied, something will just come, will be changed. This strategy, as I said at the beginning, is not the law, the strategy is more a letter of intent, and we here adopt exactly what we are going to do, which is the way we are going to pursue in the next adoption of laws and other sublegal acts. After all, it will be the government's obligation to bring sublaws, as well as this parliament. So we're going to apply some of the institutes, because we've already stepped deep into that strategy, because the Justice Ministry is working on this strategy. The fact that after two years we are discussing this strategy is already because it has had to be prepared in an adequate way, to examine, to determine, and otherwise this is exactly the continuation of what the Ministry and Government have been doing for the past two years, and that is what we have in this sense passed certain laws in this House of Justice. I claim that this is what we talked about with our partners in the European Community, where, whether we want it or not, Serbia will be very soon. So part of the strategy is in place, part of the strategy will just be applied, and as an example of that, I mention that many are getting hold of the high council of the judiciary. They say that we do not have high judicial advice under the laws, but we have established the High Council of Justice. That's right, but the urgency is that the judiciary is a far broader term, there are prosecutors, lawyers and judicial administration, and the judiciary is just a judiciary. Therefore, it is much more correct to advise the judiciary, and this will be the urgency of amending certain laws, so that during some period, the High Council of Justice will come to get new powers, i.e. new powers. Therefore, the criticisms, which are premature and which hold to specific solutions of language terms, are premature because we will only consider certain amendments or the adoption of certain laws, e.g. Tomorrow, the Code of Criminal Procedure or the law on arbitration, which is just covered by this national strategy, i.e. intention, i.e. letters on the intentions of the first ministry, then the Government and then the Serbian Assembly. When we have established this state, that it is not good enough, I repeat that there are good courts and good judges, but the general state in Serbia is such that we are not good enough in court, which is, as everyone has agreed, the most important part of the legacy, perhaps education, perhaps a poor education system, the bad education system so far, because I hope that I will not offend anyone, but a lot of students finish college that they do not know the basic concepts in practice to apply. Not only that, but precisely because of the progress of society in all domains, including social sciences, both right and in social relations, it is necessary, not just the judges, every academic, every completed lawyer is obliged to keep and renovate, expanding his knowledge. It's impossible to make any calls today without everyday training. It's inevitable and all the critics who think that finishing college is all learned and that it can be a good judge who hasn't read anything new for 20 years, as well as the one who perfects every day, are completely wrong, regardless of these throws. I'm saying it is. Every new law requires new additional education. Every new advance in science and technology requires new education. Further development of the judiciary and the judiciary will require that most of the jobs will be done by computer or, if you will, computer. The judge in the future won't be able to imagine without knowing he's working with a computer, because his computer is practically a basic means of working, he'll be able to see court practice, laws and changes in a quick and convenient way. It's not just the judge who wears the bag and pulls the paper truck around, but the judge is the one, the good one, who can find and apply the applicable law as soon as possible. As I said, the national strategy is what's in place, what we're going to apply and what's our goal, and so is the Ministry and the Government and us. We from the ruling coalition and most MPs have good intentions in this process and we want to get a democratic and good state of Serbia, to have a good judiciary. We just want to do everything we can in good faith. Normally, mistakes are possible, but we're here to correct mistakes. Therefore, this strategy, which is largely applied, we have no return, objectively in subjectively, we need, and we need to accept, and we leave our daily political bickering for another time, although it is also up to the Rules of Procedure that the MP can and can do so when any point is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26284	The word has a folk MP Sreto Peric, then Donka Banović, then Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national strategy for judicial reform, the MPs of the SRS were unable to find enough ground to accept this document, as some serious ones we might be able to support. Reading, and the question is, that I didn't see a government official on this agenda point being Zoran Stojkovic, a man I respect as an expert, not knowing if I would have read it, because I had a big dilemma, namely, I didn't know if it was here, and at one point I thought it was a political party programme that should be verified by MPs of the National Assembly, because it's predicting something as well as how, I would say the party to which Minister Stojkovic belongs, sees and wants and wants to deal with this issue. At the second moment, I thought it was some scientific work with the elements of the vision, because it says – the judicial system in the new constitution, and since we have this constitution that was brought in 1990 and on the basis of which this minister and the complete government and president of the Republic of Serbia were chosen, it was still valid. It was valid in many other moments, and when the Assembly was on fire, and when most were established, it was the same as it was, and when around 12,500 Serbian citizens were arrested in 2003. Now, all of a sudden, you can't find frameworks for the normal establishment of a justice system. In fact, when we talk about court officials, the SRS has always taken a serious part, because we believe that this branch of government, as a third, and we can say the first, however, in the system to divide the authorities into three branches, is very important and always the MPs of the SRS are adequate, serious and responsible approach to this business. The third reason, something is not clear to me, if two calendars could have been arrested, one weight blue, one blue, if I remembered it well, Mr. Branimir Djokic, a prominent member of the SRS, one patriot, a serious and responsible man, I was afraid, Minister, that you were not preparing a hickey, I don't know whether from you or perhaps from the "special" prosecutor, that it wasn't going to arrest this constitution, so that he was tried in court for "special" war crimes or perhaps worse, that this constitution was delivered to The Hague. I don't know, something is too complaining and complaining about such a constitution, and I don't think there's any reason when you say here that the justice system isn't working well, because it's not good constitutional frameworks, how it's worked in these two, two and a half years, that you're the minister of justice without me talking in the last six years. Before you, it worked much worse and now, of course, we cannot be satisfied with us in the SRS and we think that the largest number of judicial officials are doing professionally, responsibly and congratulatingly their work. However, we do not forget that there are many and those who do not do this work in such a way. The fact is that in 2001, even later in 2003, they were elected judge in one day and on the same day as court presidents, apparently that fact speaks of how it was squareed in the case. He says that inadequate constitutional and legal frameworks, which results in excessive delays in court proceedings, I do not think that the Constitution restricts in any of its provisions, or another law in this area, within what time it is necessary to implement certain proceedings. Then, vague standards of choice. We have always insisted that one positive selection be applied during the elections. You ran the negative selection. Since 2001, this has been particularly pronounced. The model of functioning of the judicial administration, the heavy burden of administrative affairs, was out of date, told me by a man who used to be a judge that these administrative jobs didn't have that much. Believe me, and in a conversation with judges in Drinski County, I've never heard from any judge that he has a lot of problems with that administration, and they've complained a lot more about all the other cases that present problems in the functioning of the courts than about the work of administration. A total of 11 weaknesses in the functioning of the judicial system were listed here, perhaps two to three objective natures, and the rest could have started through the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Serbia, and in other ways to slowly remove and overcome the part. As far as the judicial budget mentioned here, to which it is to be crossed, the SRS has advocated until now and when the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget was adopted, we also stressed that our system of justice would be far more efficient and in full terms independent if there were a special budget. You've got one problem here. I don't think that for more than a few months, six or seven months, thank you fellow jurors have received their fee for participating in the work of the courts. It's a little longer and a little more you make sure that this problem is solved. It is mentioned in this strategy and education of citizens and education of legal holders. When it comes to training holders of judicial functions, I can agree and, of course, my colleague Cvetkovic spoke, so all the people who do any work, and if there are in themselves, if we could carry out some graduation, the second degree of complexity, implies daily improvement and monitoring of the regulations that regulate that area he deals with. This is even more pronounced in the justice system. The administrative office, and from that, the right to tell you, spins in my head and reminds me immediately of the People's Office. Avoid it, Minister, if it's possible, and you probably won't bring this job to an end. You have called here on the EU and the Council of Europe. I think that's the part we should be missing. The EU and the Council of Europe do not object at all to how Serbian citizens live. Just to remind you that on 12 May of this year, it will be a full year, as a positive assessment of the Performance Study has been given. Do Serbian citizens feel any better? This positive assessment of the Miloljub Albianic's feasibility study spoke continuously for nearly 300 days, which is the man who seems to think milk is produced in the dairy industry, not where it really comes from. Don't do that. The EU and Europe want Serbia's market, they want cheap labour, and they don't care how Serbian citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26286	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The People's Messenger Donka Banović has the word, and Miljko Četrovic has the Messenger Goran Rakovic. That's the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26287	Dear President, fellow MPs, the main goal of the national strategy for judicial reform is to establish a rule of law and legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia. The situation in which the judiciary is present today requires long-term and fundamental changes. Many analyses show that we have a collapsed judicial system in the work concerning citizens' trust in the judiciary. This fact illustrates the survey conducted on the First Municipal Court site in Belgrade, which questions whether you believe in the independence of the courts, over 83% of the citizens have pleaded not to believe. It's a devastating piece of information. Once you have violated your trust in the judiciary, it takes a long time to regain it, not only takes time, but must take concrete and positive action. There is a clear need to implement strategic reforms at all levels of the judicial system. The main part of the strategy is dedicated to judicial reform, although in the smaller scope and other parts of the judicial system, the justice ministry, the prosecution, the execution of office sanctions and independent judicial professions. The education of judicial employees is perhaps the most important area that we face and which needs very thorough reforms. I believe that it is particularly important to highlight the importance of raising the level of expertise of judicial officials and employees in the judicial administration. The education of judicial employees is a permanent task, through which all aspects of judicial reform, changes in regulations, turning to international standards and introducing new technologies are increasingly broken down in front of people working in the judiciary and new challenges. The aim of staff education is to improve the expertise of judicial institutions and administrations, in order to raise the general level of knowledge of judicial staff. The existing legislation on professional training is laid down in Article 8 of the Law on Judges and a certain number of members of the Law on the administration of Courts. However, those provisions are not sufficient when it comes to professional training. The usual method of professional training is professional counselling, which is not effective enough. It consists of lectures ex cathedra with a large number of participants and with their passive participation. The adoption of a new law on the agenda of this session on the training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial assistants will create conditions for organisation and acquisition and improvement of theoretical and practical knowledge and skills. This often opposes the view of the court knows the law. So the lawyers are enough and just reading the rules. All the comparative experiences say that's not true. Additional education is a guarantee of successful and rapid implementation of all reforms, including judicial reform. The state is obliged to provide quality training to all judicial holders. The government will establish a national judicial training institute by 2008 and that is one of the medium-term objectives of this strategy. The National Institute will take over the functions and resources of an existing judicial centre that has been functioning less - more successfully since 2002. The institution will work under the supervision of high judicial supervision, and the justice minister and chief of the Supreme Cassation Court will be members of the National Institute Management Board. The National Institute will provide standardised initial and professional training for judicial employees. Training will put emphasis on the management techniques of cases in order to address the issue of a large number of lagging cases in courts. Successfully passed the final exam at this institute will become a highly appreciated criterion for selecting candidates for the first judicial post and for the permanent education of the holder of judicial functions will be mandatory. However, the education of judicial employees starts at law schools, it is necessary to strengthen the departments of law-making departments and expand practical training and learning in concrete cases in practice. I think the change in education would give us the right staff for the judiciary, who will be able to carry out the burden of this reform. Of course, the DSS MPs will vote for this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26288	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović, then Goran Rakovic, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26289	Dear People's MPs, since I don't have much time to leave the People's Messenger, Mr. Krasic, to make his views known about this so-called. The national justice reform strategies, but I need to ask here some questions from Justice Minister Stojkovic. So, as so far has the Ministry of Justice, since the formation of this government so-called. The democratic bloc, proposed a set of laws in the area of justice without a national strategy and all those laws that were proposed, and that was the case, were in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to give such an explanation or introduction when it comes to general information on the national justice reform strategy and any findings that followed in this national strategy? The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national judicial reform strategy, which was proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, shows how this strategy has no reality or basis to be achieved, given all that we heard from the minister and also from the MPs of the ruling majority, who in some way defended the strategy and assured us from the SRS parliamentary group that it would be achieved. This strategy has no deadlines, no concrete actions. It aims to restore citizens' trust in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia by establishing the rule of law and legal certainty. Before me, the DSS MP presented the results of a poll on the mistrust of citizens in Serbia's courts, in particular in Belgrade, it is an 80% percentage, I ask: whether with such a national strategy, which has no deadline, has no basis in the Constitution, will be able to change the situation and that citizens have confidence in the courts. Citizens will have confidence in courts if the courts actually enforce laws if they conduct effective judicial proceedings, swift, rational and judicial decisions are implemented. Because the purpose of each procedure is to implement decisions, especially when it comes to judicial decisions. If we have a situation that we have in criminal-legal matter that now for months the current government headed by Vojislav Kostunica and almost all ministers, who are being replaced and raced or ordered to make statements about the attempt to arrest Ratko Mladic, and not to deal with their affairs within the ministry, including the minister of justice, including the minister of education, and also the minister of economy and privatisation of Bubalo, they all go out and give a statement when and what action was taken or will take it, and even set deadlines when the hero Ratko Mladic will be arrested. And they don't care, not as a whole government, not as ministers of certain areas, why the strike in the field of education, why the strike of educators? Minister Bubal doesn't care what happens in 1,500 privatisation companies, why hundreds of thousands of workers are out of work? Why workers commit suicide, why there was a fight with private security in Jagodina, how the Privatisation Agency works, how offices work across Serbia, how much budget funds are spent on the Agency's work, how the Action Fund, the Central Registry, how the Securities Commission works and all institutions of which the fact people live, that is, most citizens who now live not with dignity, but suffer, suffer, and the threshold of suffering is no longer anywhere. That's the point. And, seeing why this strategy is now proposed at this point, they should, in some ways, help most citizens, as the minister said, who is not now able to achieve elementary justice and be available to them in court, propose a law on legal aid, so they, the majority of the poor, will be assisted by the service of legal aid, as we had in some period of legal aid service, so those poor citizens, who are sick, without bread and their families, will seek justice through this future law on legal aid. Proposers or those who proposed the holders of judicial functions were in fact those who exercise power in this government. It is also clear here, Mr., Minister Stojkovic, who has proposed and who has had a decisive impact when elected, in recent months, not to say two years, but for a year and a half certainly, the presidents of the courts, the holders of judicial functions and for the state of justice, in fact those who have proposed, and the holders of judicial functions and those who are obliged to control them and who are obliged to propose their shifts or impeachments. It cannot be transferred to the state or blame of another, because, in fact, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Court, the High Council of Justice and these key institutions that need to control and direct the judiciary. It is clear evidence that we in Serbia do not have that classic division of three branches of government, independent and independent: legislative, executive and judicial. We have the fourth, strongest and decisive now in Serbia, that the power of criminal centres of power that have huge money, huge assets, which have villas, limousines, jeeps, apartments, are directly in contact with the executive power, in some way and with the work of the judicial authority, have also led to paralysis and this situation in the entire judiciary in Serbia. What to say about the Republic Prosecutor, about the district and municipal public prosecutors, if this is the case in crime. If you were using the MUP like this for pre-crisis actions, prosecutors, municipal, district and republican, for this crime that is happening in Serbia, like what you are doing in an attempt to arrest Ratko Mladic, Serbia would flourish.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26290	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, so Zoran Krasic, then Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us one of the most important documents to appear in front of this assembly in this assembly. It's very good that he caused so much controversy today. It is good that there were many who understood the essence of this strategy, which were extremely objectively discussing it, of course, by finding certain shortcomings and proposing adequate changes in order to improve the text. It is good that there are those who have completely rejected this strategy, who have sharply criticised it, for the simple reason that they have largely had no arguments on which to base these criticisms, which only confirms that one such strategy is more than necessary for this society and this country. We live in a time where civilization's fluid is divided into three branches: legislative, executive and judicial. Very few countries that did not accept this liquid in their constitutions and in their other legal regulations did not declare the principle of the division of power. At the same time, there are many countries that, although declaring the principle of division of power, did not properly ensure that each of these three branches of government was independent. In relation to the three branches of the government I mentioned, the judicial authority is unfortunately the most vulnerable. The judiciary is usually the one that was attacked, on the one hand by the executive, and on the other hand by the legislative authority. Although our existing Constitution, although our existing regulations are everywhere declaring this principle, although our legal order is currently based on the principle of division of power, we have witnessed that the judicial authority, although declared as independent, suffers from the fact that it has a lot of influence both executives, both from one and the legislative authorities, on the other hand. If that is already the case, and it is, if we want to be in that small number of countries that have managed to fully share this principle with the authorities through their regulations, then the right moment was to approach a comprehensive change in our judicial system, and the judicial system, that this comprehensive change is not going to be from the beginning, from some zero, because for this we do not have the need, given that we have a perfectly solid tradition in our judiciary, but that we recognize what is the rule of problems in our judiciary, to see where these problems are, and the wounds that are constantly affecting our judiciary and do not allow it to properly achieve the function that is entrusted to him by this country. The strategy we have ahead of us is exactly like that. The methodology is very well done, comprehensive, it is quite clear, to use such a term, to scan the state that exists in our society and in our judiciary and not only recognized but also tax-based cited what are all these problems that hinder the exercise of rights and the achievement of the function of the judicial system and which hinders its further development. After making such a diagnosis, which are these problems, the strategy has given a clear goal, what it wants to achieve, or in which direction the judiciary should go. This is very clearly defined, that the objective of the strategy is to establish the rule of law, under one, and this results in legal certainty, and ultimately restores citizens' trust in the judicial system. We just heard from one predecessor that a survey was conducted and that over 80 percent of our country's citizens have declared that they do not trust the judicial authority that exists in this country. I'm not getting into whether the survey is true or not. Since I have been following research in other more orderly countries, there is a very common case of school youth on a list of potential professions that children would like to deal with and on the list of professions that have the highest authority in citizens, the judicial function is at the very top. One of the objectives of this strategy is precisely that by a series of measures that need to be implemented in the next period, we come to this situation that the judicial profession and in this country are one of the most desirable interests, that it draws its authority out of its morality and out of its professionalism. So it's a profession that our kids are going to want to finish school for. So we said that the goal of the strategy was very clear. Of course, there are also principles on which this strategy should be based. Others before me have mentioned it, and I don't think it's a waste to mention it again, first of all, the independence of the judicial system; under two, the public of the judicial system, which I see has caused a lot of controversy here today, I think it's justified by law, because it's still something that's new in the discussions that we have on this branch of government; the responsibility of the judicial system and ultimately efficiency, because the essence is that citizens are satisfied with the functioning of this branch of government. Given that the most controversy here has caused the very principle of the public or, as the strategy says, "transparency", although I agree with the minister that the word "public" is better and better, I think we should pay attention to this principle, if for nothing else, because the fact that the judicial branch of the government has opened up to the public over the past few years. The way it was done was very often a verse. So it wasn't done with any plan, it wasn't done with a clear dose of measure in all of it. The press began to deal with the judiciary, courts and other bodies within this branch of government, very often, unfortunately, in an inadequate way, which instead of bringing this branch of government and the judiciary closer to the citizens, to explain in the right way what is the essence of the case being conducted in front of this branch of government, very often came to our public being, instead of informed, uninformed about exactly what is happening in the judiciary, the way it is done. Very often, it is not known which authorities are responsible for taking certain actions. That is why I believe that putting emphasis on the public principle of the judiciary and the judicial system is more than significant, because this strategy is very clear on what this public is made up of. So we've got another graduation again. It is essential to open the process of elections, promotions, responsibilities and termination of judicial functions, which is very often, not only in this House, not only in people who are involved in politics, but also in ordinary citizens, but also in how they are mystified, so they asked questions about how certain people are being elected to certain places, to their progress or to the end of their function. I remember, ten, fifteen years ago, a headline in the newspaper that said, "If 200 judges are elected in one country in 15 minutes, there will be a small one." Unfortunately, it is obvious that when it was chosen in such a way that it was so casual that it was quite shortfalls and that, among other things, our judicial system had been destroyed, although I would disagree with some of the criticisms that had been heard here that he had fallen to the low branches. There are very many honest and honest professionals who want to do their job properly. The second part of this principle would refer to access to information and court proceedings. How do you access this information, and that's exactly what some of them used to talk about here? We need to stick to one principle of privacy, or we are aware of the fact that court disputes are very often intruding into certain personal situations in personal relations between certain parties that are in disputes. The fact is that we must protect their privacy and that many of the things heard in the court should not be brought out in public, that many of these things should not be discussed in newspapers or in other places, but on the other hand, the judiciary must be brought closer to the citizens and we must find the right measure, the right way for citizens to be informed in a proper and quality way about what is happening before a particular court, especially in cases that cause great public interest such as some serious crimes, processes on these issues or processes which in some way have a political background. Finally, the principle of public implies an active relationship between the judiciary itself and the public. The establishment of a public relations office is scheduled. We've already had some attempts with us in that direction. Already at this point we have the portraits of certain courts, we have the informers, we have the informants that certain courts publish. I agree with my colleague that there are very often both clumsy performances and inadequate portfolios, but every beginning is difficult to, as the Chinese say, cross a major path must take the first step. The first step is done, this strategy sets out a way to move forward, and if we properly implement this strategy, I have no doubt that the results will not fail. So, in the end, that my colleague Krasic would have time to address himself here, to criticize this strategy, which would only confirm that she is good and that she should be adopted, he would eventually invite all MPs to fully support this strategy in the day to vote. This strategy is one big step towards an independent judiciary, to a free judiciary, to a better state where our children will want to deal with a judicial function. This is the goal of all of us, and therefore, the DSS in the day of voting with great satisfaction will support this strategy with great satisfaction, believing that by adopting this strategy we are going towards a fairer, fairer state that we are all seeking.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26292	I thank Goran Rakovac. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let him prepare himself, Đorđe Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26293	Mr. Angelkovic, at first I will draw attention to some procedural matters concerning the Rules of Procedure, and since Mr. Markovic has managed to take some time away from us, please do not count this time. And here's the thing. If you look at the explanation of this Decision proposal, you will notice that a large number of provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are listed as the constitutional basis for the adoption of a national strategy. All those provisions concerning the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and the authority of the National Assembly mean that the National Assembly in those areas can pass a regulation, or law. You can't make a decision in those areas. What have we been offered here? Here we are offered one decision in which the Government informs us what it thinks is necessary to do everything in order to change the situation in the existing judicial system from the root, and I must say that in the existing legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. Then you see one great illogicality. The constitutional basis calls for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and even goes beyond, citing provisions on constitutionality and legality, and in the reasons for making this decision the Constitution is challenged, which means that the president of the National Assembly, that is what I wanted to begin by explaining, was obliged to return this proposal to the Proposer and to say that this is not in line with the Constitution. If the president of the National Assembly did not do so, then the Legislative Committee was obliged to warn the proposings that such a decision, however much it represents a programme of measures of activity and at all what the competent state authorities should do to change the situation from the root, is legal-politically unsustainable, because it is entering constitutional solutions, and even openly advocates that in future transformations no one will adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Another very important thing, and I draw attention to you who are in power and who are doing it in the majority assembly, in many solutions you are here making a proposal for the future constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You, if you push this decision into the National Assembly, will make it a simple majority, and a qualified majority in the National Assembly is required to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then you will be exactly the same as those who have passed the law on conditions and the way the Constitution is changed, which is voted here, and there are MPs who remember that period, which has been voted on by the simple majority, you are practically coming into the situation that we will have to criticize you, because then you are misusing your rights. Then you will wave this decision as something that is the basis for all possible reforms that you are supposed to implement with new laws and new laws in the National Assembly. It's this fundamental difference that makes us unable to support this concept of transforming our judicial system. You here in this strategy, which is accompanied by this proposal for a decision, acknowledge that everything that has been done since 2002 to date, as regards the grand personal council of justice, the High Council of Justice and some new form of choice by judicial officials, is in fact not in line with the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It should be made clear that even though the political willingness to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is expressed, it brings a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the job has been blocked, as some obviously do not respond to any change. All that is proposed in this strategy, even as far as those general information is concerned, is part of the initiative on what should be contained in the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that's where you went beyond all the good criteria and the question of good taste, so you went so wide that you blacked out our judiciary, that some things you completely neglected and forgot. But what is unforgivable cannot be said that an inadequate constitutional and legal framework makes it difficult to execute judgments. You can't just say that, because I'm listening to your pledoies here about it, you're giving us a lecture on how the government is organized, so, on principle, they're dividing the authorities into executive, judicial and legislative, and we're doing it. You completely unconsciously deny that it exists with us, and that exists. Whether our judicial authority is independent and independent is a second question, and I can prove to you that with the Society of Judges, the independence and independence of our judicial system have been completely compromised. She's totally in danger! Where do these reporters come in? What changed so they showed up? What law has changed that? No law. Who is the most commenting on first-degree rulings, or even this previous or investigative and investigative phase of the first-degree procedure? Well, just the people of the Judges Society, most of all, they abuse it. Furthermore, I really couldn't accept the position of, say, "an inadequate programme at law school, which contributes to the unpreparedness of future leaders in the legal profession and justice". What kind of leaders are you talking about? Leaders choose. How can he be a leader if he's a judge? He's either a judge or not a judge, he can't be a leader. Now you'd like to change your law school programs, and here we've passed a regulation guaranteeing university autonomy and university autonomy. There's talk there about some training. Of course, lawyers are intelligent, as soon as the law changes they have to apply that law. There is no case law anywhere as something internal, which obliges judges and what it says about their quality of work. I'm moving on. Key principles, you've written everything well and you've forgotten only the principle of independence. If you felt that it was within the principle of independence and that it included the question of responsibility, then it was another situation. He says the strategy's objectives are to ensure the rule of law, legal certainty, so there's something going on here that we're not a legal state. Well, there's no state that's not a rule of law, people. There's no state that's not a rule of law, but it can go to us. As part of this implementation, you wrote a judicial system in the new constitution, almost identical to what we received from the Judges' Society a few months ago. Each MP was informed with a brochure and they believe that in the future constitution, the judiciary should have such a position and a role. And you, of course, overwrite it and put it here, and now you're counting on it to be binding on us. So nothing can bind us to what the Society of Judges suggests. The SRS can't commit anything. Nothing. On the contrary, it can only distract us to pay attention to what is proposed here. Look at that Omer Mull Omerovic, what's his name. How he goes on which TV he changes his attitude. Hadjiomerovic, I apologize. I know it's a last name. How he goes on which TV he changes his attitude. The president of the association, and he's hardly a judge of the county court. Oh, no, please. And now the district court judge is teaching judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. That's ridiculous. Says the new judicial authorities as a constitutional category. Well, how can that be in any decision? We today need to make a decision that must comply with the Constitution and the law, because the Constitution obliges us to the constitutionality and legality of our work. Here are some programming goals, some programming actions. It may be a joint appearance by the parties that make up power, but you can't oblige the National Assembly to vote this. You will vote this by the simple majority, so you will wave, and you will say later: well, yes, we have so quietly changed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia according to the strategy. You will see each of the following law in the area of justice will say in line with the strategy adopted by the National Assembly of that date and that date. We won't, of course, let you. Next, the High Council of the Judiciary, some new authority, then mutual balance and control, and then I just heard here that there's no constitutional appeal. Well, yes, no more constitutional complaints in Serbia, she was until you brought the Constitutional Charter. When you adopted the Constitutional Charter, citizens lost the right to seek through constitutional appeals the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of individual acts, which violated their human rights. By the logic of the matter, since it is impossible by destroying a country to lose its right, that jurisdiction should have gone to the Republic Constitutional Court, however, Vučetic did not want to hear about it, so now he was left without a constitutional appeal. And the other thing, both executive and judicial authority, their status comes from the legislative authority, you've all forgotten that. So here you're even going to some very illogical solution. It's a much less important job for you to have the National Assembly select someone as a judge and that he works for three years and that he gets sustainability through the decision of one of your high councils. Shouldn't there be a reverse situation? The lower authority should choose him to work temporarily, so if it is proved that it is then chosen by the National Assembly who has the power to do so? And you turned that around? Why? Because there's a judicial-legal mafia in our country, because some of them screwed up the movie, they don't let anyone salt their brains. And who's that? Those who are most vulnerable as judges and as prosecutors, those who bow to the executive and legislative authority. Now they've encouraged themselves to do something, to seek some kind of independence in this way. This independence exists if quality decisions are made. And now I don't know, this strategy is to be implemented by a ten-member commission. I don't know why you're interfering an NGO with an organ of power, with which the Society of Judges as an NGO? She loses the status of NGOs if she joins a combination with some state authorities around some program, about some strategy. What kind of NGO is this when its representatives in government bodies implement a state strategy? Then it's not an NGO. But they need that buckle, so we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda one of the next points of the agenda. He says the High Council of the Judiciary is a constitutional category. It's not a constitutional category and be sure it won't be a constitutional category for long. When can it become a constitutional category? If two-thirds of the MPs in the National Assembly accept such a proposal by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and if citizens at the referendum confirm it. While this is gone, Minister, you can keep it in your drawer in the Democratic Party of Serbia, to negotiate with coalition partners about a joint performance in the elections, to be your platform, but your platform was that it would change the Constitution. The Constitution hasn't changed. Next, he says, you're explaining some new organisation of courts. Well, please, in 2002, you gave one organizational scheme to our courts: municipal, county, trade, then appeal, then administrative, then supreme, and now you throw something else in. But in the meantime, you're much closer to the law on court regulation than the law on courts that was in force until 2002, which is still in force today in the area of jurisdiction because you are deeply aware that this is not leading to anything. You know what a funny organisation of courts in Montenegro looks like. They have those basics, more, appeals, cassation, administrative, etc. Well, it's a real laugh, from the Field State, with a judiciary that needs to be imitated by the judiciary, say, a German. Well, that's really funny. There's still a lot of objections and objections to what we're going to talk about later. Now I'm taking one chance, Mr. Minister, while you're here, to introduce you to the documentation submitted by Ljubinko Alexic. For 23 years, he has been in charge of the damage compensation because he suffered injury in a car accident that took place 30 years ago. He was in his 25th, now he's 50 years old. He still has no first-degree ruling for compensation, 30 and some operations he had, addressed the Ministry of Justice since you were minister and when Mr Batic was minister and when others were before you, etc. You'll get it. He is now retired, receiving a disability pension of 8,000 dinars, receiving compensation for the physical damage of 600 dinars, and for 23 years he has been walking and seeking a first-degree sentence, it seems to me to be the first municipal court in Belgrade. There's no first degree verdict. You'll see, here you have a guilty verdict for those who caused it, so the guilt proven, there's also art, etc. - 23 years old. Now, I am absolutely certain that when this decision is made on this strategy that he will not get a first degree sentence within two months. I'm not sure. If any other decision on another strategy is in line with the Constitution and the existing laws, which aims to make our courts effective, then I could say to this Mr. Ljubinko - we have made this new strategy, it implies efficiency, the first-degree court has to do so in that time, second-degreed, if the first-degrees do not do so, they are subject to that and that sanction, etc. However, I cannot say that because this strategy is in high clouds. If it is, if it isn't, it won't be. It's going to be something proactive here, it can probably be both parasitic or anti-active and anti-passive, because I don't know the expertise is just proving some new concepts. I suggest that you do not vote in favour of this decision, because you are taking the risk that whenever you call on this decision to be called upon and to say that there is no two-thirds majority, there is no consensus on the future change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, so call this man, if he gets rid of this in two or three months, he's probably got some shit out of our justice system, and he's scared of inactivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26294	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26295	This proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national judicial reform strategy should be adopted. According to its contents, it's a very good proposal and I think it's at least 15 years late. The judiciary in every country looks like a society where they live their lives so that we should keep that in mind. The judiciary looked like its society 20 years ago in this country, which is what it looks like today. That's why I think this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national justice reform strategy is very well imagined and I think it is crucial for our society, because it was time for a judicial reform strategy to be adopted once. There are more points in the proposal here, but I've only defined myself for a few. First of all, I think these principles are very important, the principle of independence, openness, accountability and efficiency. When it comes to the principle of responsibility, we can talk about the need to establish professionalism in the judiciary, and the basis of every professionalism in each profession is knowledge and conscience. If there's no knowledge, conscience isn't enough. If he has knowledge and has no conscience, that knowledge is unusable. We need to establish true professionalism in the judiciary, as well as in all other professions in our society, so that the judiciary can give the expected results. What has drawn my attention in particular, is here a reform of teaching at law schools, or a proposal to strengthen the departments of law school. We have law professors who nobody quotes, in the world especially. They'll end their working and lifespan, they've spent it in science, and no one quotes them, no one mentions what they've been doing. There's a professor of law schools who can't sit on a computer. When you look at their textbooks, you can't in Serbia, at five or six colleges I've looked at textbooks, there's not at the end of the textbooks in the literature list to list one computer site for searching the legislation of European and world courts in Europe, in the world, Supreme Courts, United Nations, European Court of Human Rights. And these professors wondered how it was possible that in 2001 and 2002 they were not consulted on the regulation of our laws. They're not quoted by their colleagues, except their assistants when they're preparing doctoral dissertation. It's about time, when it comes to strategy, we talked about law schools and people who go out of those colleges with law school diplomas. We have judges today who don't know the difference between guns and guns, who don't know what a brake mark is, who don't know what a psychic second is, who don't understand financial skills, who don't understand medical skills. So these are serious problems. When you look at those law professors, most of them don't know how to file a lawsuit, and they hand over positive legal cases, and now they need to prepare someone for life. So today we have judges who know the laws, and they don't know life, different areas. It's a key problem from municipal to Supreme, so this is a very important part for me to have a reform of law school classes, to hand over people who have a relationship with practice at law schools, to teach judges the case law in positive cases, to get acquainted with judgments, to learn judicial psychology, to know very well about criminalism, to know property law, the practice of the Supreme Court when it comes to civil law, to trade, to read foreign judgments, to see what it looks like, and not to go out of law school, to spend four years there, and they don't know where the courts are in the city where they live. So I think this is very important, because without this reform of legal studies, the rest will not be worth much. I think it's a good thing that the prosecutions are part of the executive and should have relative independence, because the attorney general is a party to the dispute. Therefore, the interpretations of some professors that they are an integral part of the judicial authority are just nonsense. The prosecutor is part of the executive government and he is always party to the dispute, when protecting the state's interest or when it comes to attorneys, they protect the state's interest and the party is in dispute. Therefore, binding them to judicial authority is wrong. I like it here about lawyering. It would be high time for lawyers to become lords of their directory, so that they could be responsible for who enters the legal order, not for constantly enrolling people through the Supreme Court decisions and then for lawyers to account for who's been admitted to the chamber. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26296	Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26297	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first thank you for one truly exhaustive discussion. I'll point to just a few things so we don't stay unsaid. It's said here there's no court practice. One of the proposals is precisely that we have a supreme cassation court that will take care of extraordinary legal remedies and practices, because it has proved that the current Supreme Court composition, which 95% of the time spends on complaints and works as a court of appeal, has no time to do what should be its basic function. It's been said we have no right to change the university program, since they're autonomous. It's not a moment, look at the study, that's a strategy. Something else has been said, that a valid co-operation should be established, and now I'm telling you that I'm going to colleges, we've established good co-operation, and it's something else: that colleges if they want to throw out valid staff, they need to do some specialization and get closer to what they're learning in court practice. And that's the goal we want to achieve, and that's what college wants. You said the two-thirds majority, the Constitution, etc. I have to say the next thing I know: listening to the whole day's discussion, I can tell that everyone essentially agreed that the situation in the judiciary isn't good, that there's a problem. That's what we said. And so far, there have been problems in the judiciary, but no solution has been offered to what the state wants, what should be done to remove these problems in the judiciary. Today we have this strategy that offers solutions to the problems that we have identified and, I say, offered alternatively. I noticed that, it's said, so we don't want to vote change, because the Constitution says otherwise. One of the changes proposed is also about changing the Constitution, because for at least these two years I hear that we are all agreed that the Constitution needs to be modernised, modified, what has run over the time of correction. Therefore, change would be necessary. Accordingly, there was a large number of discussions, I say, even those who spoke positively and even those who were against it, it came down to one thing that apparently seemed to not be understood. This is about principles, everything else this assembly will regulate by law, because the issue of jurisdiction, authority, and similar things, that is to say, the final arrangements are being settled by the Assembly of Laws. I just pleaded in my speech that it should be a two-thirds majority to ensure greater security and reliability in a new construction and work of courts. If we figure out what's wrong, we have a proposal for the first time in 60 years, what should be done eventually. I don't see any reason not to accept this unless we really want to make a change in courts. I hope it's not a dispute, but we can talk about living standards and economics. Here I'm asking, is there a possibility for a valid economy and for a valid raising of standards if you don't have, above all, the rule of law, respect for certain principles and security and bodies that will protect it? I'm saying he can't. After all, we are different from that part of the orderly world, and I mean in most cases precisely because we have problems with the application of the law, the application of principles and bodies that are not qualified to apply these principles and respect them to ensure the safety of these legal entities, as well as the safety of us as citizens. For these reasons, I really thank you for this discussion. I'm sure we share an opinion, if we rule out other things that aren't purely professional, that change is necessary to have a valid judiciary, above all, of the courts. For these reasons, I propose that this decision be adopted and the strategy adopted, and in the course of the process of the new laws being passed, there will be opportunities here to find adequate solutions to the application of what is offered by the strategy, in the best and most poor way that suits us as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-05-08-0.u26298	I would like to thank Minister Stojkovic for his final statement. I hope there's no one left who hasn't used his right by another member, and above all, Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Given that the proposing representative, i.e. Minister Zoran Stojkovic, also gave the final word, I am concluding a single search into the motion for a decision. Having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the amendment tabled on a proposal for a decision in general. That's what we ended today. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours, a united debate on the 2, 3rd and 4th agenda. I'll thank you and see you tomorrow.
